DRN-3523006
The complaint
Mrs W complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, (Transact) 
caused her loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
What happened
Mrs W held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call X. Mrs W was 
also bondholder in a bond issued by X, the units of which were deemed as having the 
same rights as C Class shares of fund X in the event of a takeover or merger. Transact 
was registered as the legal owner of the shares.
X was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands and investing in UK property.
In May 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice, saying it intended to restructure X 
by merging it into a new company. According to the notice, more and final details of this 
corporate action were expected in four weeks or so with it completing some months later. 
The notice said the redemption period for shares was being immediately extended to 
almost a year. Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mrs W or her advisers.
At the end of August 2012 Transact was notified of the details of the restructure. There 
would be a merger and Mrs Ws shares in X (which included the bondholding, now 
deemed to be C Class shares in X) would be exchanged for bonds issued by the new 
company. Transact sent notice of this to the adviser it had on its records as being       
Mrs Ws adviser. Transact did this in September 2012. The restructure completed later.
The bond wasnt redeemed at the end of the intended five-year term in 2017 and was 
further restructured. The bonds value was adjusted to near zero on Mrs Ws Transact 
statements and remains unredeemed. 
In support of her complaint, Mrs W has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary: 
Transact had failed in its duties as a platform provider and as an operator of a SIPP.
The May 2012 notice was news of a fundamental change to her investment and Transact 
shouldve passed this on to her.
The restructure left her with a lower value, illiquid and high-risk asset, and she believes 
Transact ought to have assessed its appropriateness for her.
Although her shares didnt give her a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law gave 
her a right to object to it and to receive instead a cash redemption of a fair value for her 
shares. If Transact had done more earlier to inform her about the restructure and advise 
her of her options, she wouldve been able to exercise and enforce those rights and 
avoid the loss that arose. And if not in the Marshall Islands, Mrs W could have initiated 
litigation in the English courts.
Mrs W had changed her financial advisory firm in March 2012 but Transact had sent the 
August notification to the email address of her previous individual adviser who was not 
an appointed representative of Mrs Ws new financial advisory firm. Transact had not 
identified the legal entity it was dealing with and couldnt have been sure it was 
corresponding with the correct financial advisory firm.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transacts terms meant it wasnt obliged to inform Mrs W of any corporate action but did 
have to pay due regard to Mrs Ws interests and treat her fairly. The investigator didnt 
think the May notification gave any detail about the potential corporate action or specific 
timings, so it wasnt unreasonable for Transact to wait for further detail before passing it 
on. The August 2012 communication did give a clear timeline and proposal regarding a 
substantial change to the investment, so it was reasonable to expect Transact to pass 
this information on, which it did on 3 September. 
The investigator said that Transact had emailed the adviser as recorded on its records. 
Mrs W had notified Transact of a change of advisory firm (which operated within the 
same group of companies) in March 2012 but her individual adviser at both advisory 
firms been the same since 2011 and used the same email address. So, Transact had 
acted fairly and reasonably in sending the September notification to the email address it 
did hold.
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate what options were available to Mrs W in 2012 
or any legal implications of the 2012 corporate action. That would have gone beyond the 
scope of what was expected of a nominee. Its only obligation was to pass on the 
information about the corporate action and it would have been for Mrs W and her adviser 
to consider her options. 
Even if it was agreed that Transact should have gone further the investigator wasnt 
persuaded it was more likely Mrs W would have received her investment back. Mrs Ws 
shares (and the deemed C Class shares resulting from the bondholding) were non-voting 
and the investigator couldnt be sure that Marshall Islands law would have provided    
Mrs W the opportunity to exit the investment or that a claim would have been successful. 
And at the time there was no indication the new holding was likely to result in the losses 
incurred so the investigator couldnt be certain that Mrs W would have pursued that route 
in any event. 
The bonds resulting from the restructure werent a new holding Transact was accepting 
onto its platform, but a change to an existing holding. So, Transact didnt have to assess 
the appropriateness of the bonds. Mrs W had referred to a court case about a SIPP 
operator and that it was relevant to her complaint. But the investigator didnt agree as 
that court case concerned the actions of a SIPP operator when accepting an investment 
into a wrapper which wasnt the case here, as it was a corporate action impacting an 
existing investment. 
Mrs W didnt wish to accept the investigators opinion. She provided a personal account of 
the impact of what had happened to her investment and raised concerns about a conflict of 
interest between parties who advised, operated, and distributed the investments. Mrs W felt 
let down by the financial services industry. 
Mrs W suggested this service consider mediating between the parties and also requested that the ombudsman dealing with her complaint speak with her. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
I should first say that I appreciate Mrs W wished to speak with me before I issued my final 
decision and also suggested that I considered mediating between the parties. However, and 
I dont mean any discourtesy to Mrs W by not speaking with her, but I have to be fair to both 
parties to the complaint and allow them equal opportunity in making their submissions for me 
to consider. And Id like to reassure Mrs W I am satisfied that the submissions I have 
received from both parties to the complaint give me sufficient insight and understanding for 
me to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
And with regard to mediation of the complaint, that is not the role of the service. Rather it is 
to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion taking into account the particular and individual 
circumstances of the complaint. So, I wont be considering any of the wider issues Mrs W 
has raised, and my decision relates solely to the restructure that took place in 2012. 
Id mention Ive not considered what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, 
when Mrs W made the investment or its due diligence in accepting it onto its platform at that 
time  so if Mrs W has concerns about those events, shed have to raise them with Transact 
separately and Ive not considered whether that could fall within our jurisdiction now. 
Ive not considered any of that here because, from how shes described her complaint,     
Mrs W isnt complaining about her initial investment into the shares or bond of X and Im 
being asked to decide matters solely related to the 2012 restructure.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mrs W relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. Mrs Ws 
complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment onto its platform but about the 
restructuring of an investment already held on its platform. 
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mrs Ws interests, treat her fairly, pay due 
regard to her information needs and give information to her in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The May 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next four to six weeks and that a new company should be listed a few months after that.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Transact to wait for more details rather than forwarding on to Mrs W the May 2012 notice or all or part of the information it contained. 
There was no detail about precisely what was going to take place, nor specific timings. I note 
that investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of the action anyway, 
given the extended redemption period and what the notice said about general timescales.
When in August 2012 Transact received details of exactly what would happen for both the 
shares in X and the bonds which were to be deemed as C Class shares in X, it did decide to 
pass these on. Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though Mrs W 
didnt have a right to vote on the restructure, I think Transact was right to decide to pass this 
on, bearing in mind its obligations.
Mrs W has said she wasnt told about the bond swap for the C Class shares. I note from 
other files Ive seen that Transact did send notification on 20 September 2012 which 
included (redacted as appropriate) names of all of the bond holders and although I dont 
have a copy of it available for Mrs Ws file I think on the balance of probabilities its most 
likely Mrs Ws adviser would have seen a copy of the same email which included her name. 
And ultimately, Mrs Ws bondholding was treated in the same way as her shares in X, so the 
outcome was the same as her shareholding in X.
Mrs W doesnt agree Transact informed her, through her adviser, of the notice. But from 
what Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using an email address for 
Mrs Ws adviser. 
I say this having carefully considered all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In short, I dont agree with what Mrs W has said about those 
interactions indicating that the business behind them was not the adviser business that 
Transact thought it was. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to do what it did 
in September 2012 and forward details of the corporate action notice to the email address it 
used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mrs Ws individual adviser at the time wasnt 
aware of the plans and points of action outlined in the August 2012 notice.
So, I think by doing what it did Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mrs Ws adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to communicate with 
Mrs W about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the adviser  and using the 
email address  she had registered on its system.
The notice was information about what would be a substantial change to Mrs Ws 
investment. But I dont think Transact needed to do more than it did. It had no obligation to 
provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. It was for Mrs W, and her 
adviser, to consider the implications, decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So, I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investment or for Mrs W as an investor. Nor do I think that 
Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the bonds Mrs W received or was 
to receive, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment but an alteration to an existing one.
In saying this I note the notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for Mrs W 
to avoid having her investment in X exchanged for the bonds through the restructure, and 
she didnt have a vote on whether it went through. Other rights or legal options Mrs W might 
have had in relation to the restructure, that arose from her status as a shareholder rather 
than from the restructure proposals themselves  for example as a result of the company law governing the fund in the territory in which it was legally based  were rights or options that it 
was for her or her adviser to explore and consider. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect Transact to have investigated, considered, or advised Mrs W about 
wider rights of that kind.
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mrs Ws investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of the shares, it was safeguarding Mrs Ws investment by acting as custodian. So, Transact 
had to keep Mrs Ws investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
her on how to get out of the investment if she wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So, I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the notices it received  and 
I dont think it needed to do more than it did. It follows that I dont think any losses Mrs W 
suffered on her investments were losses caused by failings by Transact in how it dealt with 
things at the time of the notices and the restructure.
Id add that if Mrs W had been told of the restructure proposals by Transact earlier or in a 
different way, Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been her either successfully 
redeeming her investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall Islands law, securing in 
the UK courts an award by virtue of which she was likely to successfully recover a payment 
to reduce her losses.
I say this bearing in mind Ive nothing to suggest anyone requesting a redemption after the 
May 2012 announcement successfully redeemed their investment before the restructure 
took effect. Also, theres no suggestion Mrs W requested a redemption upon having been 
made aware of the restructure. 
Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs W or her adviser, upon becoming aware 
of the merger, raised any points about Mrs W having lost rights by virtue of not having been 
able to dissent in the way Mrs W has since described. So, its not at all obvious that Mrs W 
or her adviser were aware of any such legal rights and Ive nothing to suggest Mrs W 
wouldve been likely to attempt to enforce those rights at that time. 
Overall, I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mrs W wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of her investment and the 
losses she says arose as a result of that conversion. 
So although, given what happened here and the losses she suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mrs Ws situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in connection 
with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman