DRN-2821074
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy at how his annuity with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) was set 
up. He also wants to know why the pension in payment differs from the quotation he 
received.
What happened
Mr S bought an annuity with Aviva in October 2013. The annuity had a 10-year guarantee 
period as well as a 100% spouses pension. Mr S feels that the 10-year guarantee period 
wasnt needed as his annuity had a 100% spouses pension. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said theyd provided enough information for him 
during the set-up of the annuity. And that the option was explained.
Mr S didnt agree. So he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator firstly 
considered the objection which Aviva had raised to us considering the complaint. It said that 
the complaint had been made too late, as the event complained of was more than six years 
before Mr S complained, and that it responded to a separate complaint which Mr S had 
made in 2015. 
But the investigator noted that the complaint dealt with in 2015 related to the availability of 
an enhanced annuity, and that this complaint was about something quite different  the 
inclusion of the ten-year guarantee. As such, the investigator concluded that this was a 
complaint which we could consider.
He therefore then assessed the merits of the complaint, but he didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong. He felt that guarantee periods and spouses pensions are two different 
features. And that there are circumstances where a guarantee period means that the income 
continues where it wouldnt have with a spouses pension. He also noted that all decisions 
about the type of annuity had been Mr Ss to make.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that if hed been given more information about the guarantee 
period, he wouldnt have chosen it. So his complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I need to decide whether it was fair that Aviva set up Mr Ss annuity with both a 10-year 
guarantee and a spouses pension. Mr S doesnt think it was fair. He feels that theres a high 
degree of overlap in the additional benefits and that if hed understood this properly he 
wouldnt have agreed to them both. But Aviva say that that the information they gave him 
was suitable  although, as set out below, no regulated advice was given on the suitability 
for the particular annuity chosen by Mr S. 
Ive read the transcript of the call he had with Aviva on 14 October 2013. I note that Avivas 
representative said she wasnt a financial adviser. But that shed explain the options Mr S 
could choose from.
In non-advised sales like this one, the provider only has to describe the product and its 
options. The customer then decides what they want. If the product the customer chose 
doesnt turn out to be suitable, and it had given correct information about the options 
available, it wouldnt be the providers fault. They dont have full details about the customers 
circumstances so cant know whether the product is suitable or not. 
Given this was a non-advised sale, I cant hold Aviva responsible for not setting up the 
annuity in the best possible way for Mr Ss circumstances. This is because they didnt have 
all his financial details. Had this been an advised sale, I mightve been able to hold the 
adviser responsible for whether a financial product was suitable for the customers needs.
But I would expect Aviva to fairly explain the annuity options available to Mr S. 
Did Aviva provide Mr S with enough  and correct  information about his options?
During the call with Aviva, Mr S decided to take 25% tax free cash and to use the remaining 
fund to buy an annuity. He also decided to have 100% spouses pension. This meant that if 
he were to die before his spouse she would get the same level of pension as hed been 
getting before his death. Mr S accepted Avivas offer to send him a quotation showing the 
level of pension hed get if he didnt include a spouses pension.  
Aviva next discussed the guarantee period option. They explained how it would work if his 
spouse died before he did. They told him he could choose between zero to ten years. They 
noted that hed already requested a 100% spouses pension. They said: Now you do have 
100% spouses pension so whether you require that guarantee period is entirely up to you. 
Noticing that hed hesitated when asked whether he wanted to take the guarantee period 
option, Aviva told Mr S that if he wasnt sure: I can send you all this out in writing you can 
have a look over it and have a think so if you are not ready just now you can give us a call 
with your decided basis and we can send out the quotations then.
Although Mr S said he wasnt sure, I can see that he did agree to the 10-year guarantee 
period. 
At the end of the call, Aviva said: Would you like all the information sent out with it and all 
the options so you can have a look over it again or are you happy with what you have 
picked?. They also said: Or if you dont want the information in writing when you get the 
quote and you are not quite happy with it give us a call back and we can certainly go through 
it again and send out some more information for you. 
So I can see that Aviva told Mr S he could take more time to think about the details if he 
wasn't sure what decision to make. They also offered to provide more information if that 
would help. 
But Mr S says that another pension provider recently sent him information that said anyone 
who feels they received insufficient information when they made their annuity choices should 
contact their provider. He says Aviva didnt give him enough information to work out that a 
10-year guarantee period on top of a 100% spouses pension wasnt suitable for him. He 
also says that Aviva didnt tell him that having already picked a 100% spouses pension 
there would be no extra benefit for his spouse from a 10-year guarantee period. Or that the 
guarantee period would reduce his starting pension. He says that if hed had that 
information, he wouldnt have chosen the guarantee period.But Aviva say that their annuity confirmation letter of 18 November 2013 confirmed that the 
annuity would be paid in full until the end of the 10-year guarantee period and thereafter a 
100% spouses annuity would be payable to a surviving spouse. And that the pack sent with 
the quotation dated 17 October 2013 gave full information of the options available.
I agree with our investigator that a guarantee period and a spouses pension are different 
options and that they dont cancel each other out. The guarantee period guarantees that Mr 
S and his estate receive at least 10 years worth of pension payments, even if both he and 
his spouse died within ten years of taking the annuity. This is distinctly different from a 
spouses pension. Although in Mr Ss circumstances I understand why he now feels the 
guarantee period was unnecessary, he did make the decision to select both. 
Having considered what both parties have provided, Im not persuaded that Aviva did 
anything wrong. I know this will disappoint Mr S. I do acknowledge that he has strong 
feelings about this complaint. He doesnt think Aviva fully explained the impact of the options 
he was taking. But I can see that Aviva offered to provide further information if Mr S wasnt 
sure of his decision. They also offered to provide more quotations. If Mr S had asked for a 
quotation with no guarantee period it wouldve been provided. And he couldve seen the 
impact on his pension.
I do appreciate that Mr S didnt necessarily know that further illustrations could be useful to 
help him understand the impact of his choices. But I can see that Aviva did offer to provide 
additional information and quotations. So I cant hold them responsible for Mr S feeling hed 
made the wrong choice on his options. 
Pension in payment differs from the quotation received
Mr S asked Aviva to confirm why their quotation dated 17 October 2013 showed a different 
pension value from the one hes actually been paid. I can see that he was quoted a tax-free 
cash figure of £1,263.37 and a starting monthly pension of £13.30 in the 17 October 2013 
quote. This required him to return the required documentation by 30 October 2013. But he 
actually returned the paperwork on 5 November 2013. 
In their 18 November 2013 letter Aviva quote a different tax-free cash figure of £1,282.41 
and a different starting pension of £12.67 each month. This is what Mr S received. 
Aviva have confirmed that as Mr S missed the 30 October 2013 deadline for returning the 
required documentation, his pension and tax-free cash were recalculated on the annuity 
rates in force at that time. 
I acknowledge that the tax-free cash Mr S received was slightly higher than that originally 
quoted, while the monthly pension was slightly lower. But I dont think the available evidence 
supports the position that Aviva mis-calculated the updated amounts.
What if a written follow-up had been provided?
Mr S has specifically asked me to consider what wouldve happened if Aviva had followed up 
the verbal explanation about guarantee periods with an example of what would actually 
happen upon his death, given that a 100% spouses pension had already been chosen. He 
wouldve liked Aviva to confirm his understanding of something that he was being asked to 
think about for the first time. He said: If there was a check box on the declaration form to 
say "Yes, I have read and understood the terms of my guarantee period (stating 'with' or 
'without' overlap) and I understand how this works in combination with 100% spouse 
income", I could have reviewed what I was agreeing to, been able to identify it was pointless 
having both, not chosen it and my income would be higher.While I agree that this wouldve helped Mr S, its not for us to dictate the type of declaration 
which a consumer should be provided with when committing to a contract such as an 
annuity. Our role is to check that a business has acted fairly and that it hasnt contravened 
that requirement when providing such a declaration. I dont think that in this instance there 
was anything wrong with the information provided by Aviva or the declaration it asked him to 
sign to set up the annuity. And there was no requirement on Aviva to do what Mr S has 
suggested for his non-advised sale. 
Aviva didnt give Mr S any incorrect information. They gave him the chance to receive further 
quotes or ask more questions. Mr S didnt take any of these opportunities to further his 
understanding of what he was buying. And I can understand why. He didnt realise he 
needed to. But I cant hold Aviva responsible for that under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman