DRN-3607233
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice provided by CST Wealth Management 
Limited (CST) in October 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
The details of Mr Ps safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 9 years and 4 months qualifying service between November 2007 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £5,944. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £121,581.13. 
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr P contacted CST for advice. He met one 
of its advisers in September 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire 
were completed which recorded the following information about Mr P:
He was aged 37 and his wife aged 36. They were both in good health. They had four 
financially dependent children aged between 2 and 17;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£44,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £145,000. They didnt have any 
other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £100,000 on their marital home. 
They also had credit card debt of about £15,000; 
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 68 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme provided by Aviva since April 2017. The 
total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary. He 
also had two small DC pensions with Standard Life and Phoenix Life; and
He didnt have any specific retirement plans at that stage other than retiring around 
age 60;
He had a High Medium risk profile and a Medium capacity for loss.
In October 2017, while waiting to receive CSTs formal recommendation, the BSPS issued 
its Time to Choose communication pack to members including Mr P. This explained that 
BSPS members had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr P to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. Members that didnt choose an option remained in 
the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF.
Issuance of the Time to Choose pack didnt alter CSTs recommendation. It proceeded to 
issue its suitability report to Mr P on 24 October 2017. It recommended that he transfer the 
value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP to achieve his recorded objectives to 
retire earlier than age 65 and draw flexible benefits.
This complaint
In 2022, Mr P contacted us to express his concerns about the suitability of CSTs pension 
transfer advice it gave to him in 2017. The matter was referred to CST to give it the 
opportunity to investigate and resolve Mr Ps complaint.
CST didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was satisfied that the pension transfer to the 
PPP enabled Mr P to achieve his recorded objectives and was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, CST failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Ps best interests. She thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the 
BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator recommended that CST carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines on the basis that 
Mr P transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that CST pay Mr P £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.CST disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in its 
response. Our investigator considered those comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. CST requested that this 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
In May 2023, while this complaint remained in the queue awaiting allocation to an 
ombudsman, our investigator contacted Mr P and CST to tell them that the FCA had 
developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme, as set out in PS22/13. And that the FCA was encouraging 
businesses to use that calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by           
Mr P. The investigator stated that in the event an ombudsman upheld this complaint that 
they may direct CST to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator.
Following this, CST contacted this Service on 3 August 2023 to state that it had changed its 
mind and accepted the investigator's assessment. It provided evidence that showed it had 
carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator which 
showed Mr Ps loss, as at 1 July 2023, was £757.09 and that it was prepared to pay this to 
him to resolve this complaint. The investigator presented CSTs offer to Mr P but he declined 
it because he thought his financial loss was greater  he requested that this complaint 
remain in the queue and be reviewed by an ombudsman.
This complaint has now been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Before going any further, Id like to apologise to the parties for the length of time its taken for 
this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman for review. 
I understand that CST is still disputing that it gave Mr P unsuitable pension transfer advice. 
However, without any admission regarding the suitability of its advice and to bring this 
complaint to a close, it says that its now prepared to accept our investigators assessment 
and recommended remedy. Its carried out a loss assessment that shows Mr P has suffered 
a financial loss of £757.09 and has offered to pay this to him.
Given CSTs latest position, I dont see the need to address the suitability of its pension 
transfer advice to Mr P in detail. However, I would like to note that I agree with the 
investigators view that the pension transfer advice CST gave to Mr P was unsuitable for 
largely the same reasons. In summary:
Mr Ps safeguarded benefits, accounting for 9 years and 4 months qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. Taking this 
into account, I think its fair to say that when Mr P came to retire, he would be reliant, 
in some part, on the value of his BSPS benefits to generate a minimum level of core 
retirement income to support his standard of living in retirement. And so I think it was 
important to ensure that this part of Mr Ps retirement provision wasnt exposed to 
unnecessary risk.At the time of the advice, Mr P was aged 37. It was recorded that he wanted to retire 
early, around age 60. His annual retirement income need was recorded as £24,000 
in 2017 terms. The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to 
establish a realistic income figure and whether early retirement would in fact be 
possible. And in Mr Ps case, I think it wouldve been difficult to calculate an accurate 
figure with such a substantial timeframe until age 60. With such a time horizon until 
pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  for 
the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. 
Mr P couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. So I 
dont think there was any need to transfer to a PPP at that time and, in doing so, 
transfer the investment, inflation and longevity risks to Mr P when those risks 
couldve been retained by the BSPS2;
Theres no real evidence that Mr P required the flexibility of irregular lump sums, 
variable income or staggered income during retirement. But even if he did, I think this 
couldve been provided by the DC pension savings he was building up in Tata Steels 
DC pension scheme provided by Aviva, along with his two small DC pensions with 
Standard Life and Phoenix Life;
Had CST advised Mr P to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than 
at age 37;
A change in the format of death benefits was mentioned by CST as another reason 
for transferring to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr P about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. Its my view that Mr P had no health issues at the time CST advised him 
which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to 
his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family;
I dont think there was any need to transfer at that time, especially given the critical 
yield figures attached to the transaction which at age 60 were 6.19% on the basis   
Mr P took the full pension or 5.41% on the basis he took a reduced pension and tax-
free lump sum. I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the 
PPP led to Mr P gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative 
option of transferring to the BSPS2 at that time; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr P to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring 
to a PPP. 
Putting things rightThe aim is to put Mr P back in the financial position he wouldve been in at retirement had he 
been given suitable advice. CST has carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent retirement benefits that 
they wouldve been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to reflect the 
subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out.
If the calculation shows theres not enough money in the consumers PPP to match the 
BSPS2 or PPF benefits they wouldve received, the shortfall is the amount owed to the 
consumer. If the calculation shows theres enough money in the consumers PPP, then no 
redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
Ive checked the inputs that were entered by CST which are personal to Mr P. These include 
Mr Ps personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the BSPS 
and the value of his PPP. The calculation also assumes that if he hadnt been advised to 
transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he wouldve moved to the BSPS2 and that he wouldve 
taken his DB benefits from that scheme at age 65.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ps case as carried out on 3 August 2023 shows that there is a shortfall 
to his pension of £757.09 which he should be compensated for. I think the calculation carried 
out by CST is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CST may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Ps 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
If Mr P wants CST to calculate how much of the redress can be paid into his PPP, he should 
tell them as soon as possible. If this is what Mr P wants, CST should request the necessary 
information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have 
any of his redress augmented, and take a prudent approach when calculating how much 
redress could be augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax 
position. The calculation on how much can be augmented should be based on the redress 
amount already calculated.Before redress is paid to Mr P or into his PPP, the calculation needs to be finalised by 
adding additional compensation for the time between valuation and payment as per DISP 
App 4.3.29 (3).
In addition, and in line with our investigators recommendation, CST must pay Mr P £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable pension transfer advice.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr P the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman