DRN-3723389
The complaint
Ms T complains that she is in financial difficulties and Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin
Money (Virgin Money) havent given her the help they should.
Ms T is represented by Mr F but for ease of reading I will only refer to Ms T in my decision.
What happened
Ms T took out a Fixed Sum Loan with Virgin Money in January 2018 for a period of 60
months. The loan was for £10,105.74  which comprised £7,000 for home improvement and
£3,105.74 for consolidation of another loan. The loan was to be repaid at £274.10 each
month. The total amount to repay (including interest and fees) was £16,445.96.
Ms T said she couldnt meet the contractual payments and said Virgin Money kept
harassing her to make a payment. She said she asked for help from the Citizens Advice
Bureau and told Virgin Money to go through their representative, but Virgin Money said they
didnt have the authority to do this. Ms T said shed put forward an amount to settle the loan,
but this was rejected by Virgin Money as they said the loan was still within its term. She said
Virgin Money had also confused her by referencing the wrong account details in their
communications with her. She complained to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money said theyd put several holds onto Ms Ts account and had given time for her
and her representative to offer a new payment proposal. But Ms T hadnt responded or
provided an understanding of her income and expenditure so the hold had been lifted so that
they could look for repayment of her loan.
Ms T wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Virgin Money had tried to help Ms T and didnt think theyd acted
unfairly or unreasonably in contacting her to ask about her repayments for the loan. He
understood the use of a generic sort code on Virgin Moneys letters had been confusing and
feedback has been given to them. He recommended Ms T engage with Virgin Money to look
to arrange a payment plan.
Ms T didnt agree she said the calls from Virgin Money were excessive. And they werent
liaising with her representative. She said she no longer had the money shed offered to settle
the loan and wasnt in any position to make any repayment. She asked for an ombudsman to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all, Ive looked at what I consider is the real nature of Ms Ts complaint. And as we
have an inquisitorial remit, Ive considered whether or not it was irresponsible for Virgin
Money to have lent Ms T the money in the first place. I can see she fell into financial
difficulties soon after taking this loan out. So, I think its fair to consider what Ms Ts financial
situation was at the point the loan was taken out.
In considering what is fair and reasonable Ive taken into account relevant law and
regulations and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Taking this into account, I think the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstance of this complaint are:
1. Did Virgin Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
themselves that Ms T would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Virgin Money make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms T
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Virgin Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Virgin Money didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms T and
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The regulations in place when Virgin Money lent to Ms T required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether Ms T could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The affordability check should have been borrower-focused  so Virgin Money had to
think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties or
adverse consequences for Ms T. In other words, it wasnt enough for Virgin Money to
only think about the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the
impact of the loan repayments on Ms T herself.
The checks Virgin Money carried out also had to be proportionate to the specific
circumstances of the loan application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate
affordability check will depend on several factors including, but not limited to, the
circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and 
cost of credit theyre seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check will more
likely than not look different for different loan applications.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for
a given loan application. For example:
the lower a customers income (as it could be harder to make any loan repayments
from a lower income);
the higher the amount to be repaid (as it could be harder to meet a higher repayment
from a given income);
the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater and
the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could affect how detailed a proportionate check
should be when it comes to a loan application  including, but not limited to, any indicationsof borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in the consumers future
circumstances. Ive considered whether Virgin Money in lending to Ms T had been thorough
in the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in
deciding to lend to her.
I can see Virgin Money asked Ms T for details of her income and some of her outgoings,
they also completed a credit search. There were no defaults, missed or late payments
on the credit report. But from what Ive seen the assessment only considered Ms Ts income
which is shown as £1,002 per month and her rent payment which Virgin Money had as £108
per month. No other details were included in the assessment. With this information it looked
on paper that Ms T had sufficient disposable income to sustain the monthly repayment of
£274.10. But no account has been made of any other outgoings such as utilities, food and
day to day living. And £108 per month for rent is well below the national average. I can also
see Virgin Moneys assessment showed Ms Ts employment status as Economically
inactive with her occupation as Disabled. So, as Ms T was on a low income and
borrowing a high amount over a long period of time I would have expected further checks to
have been made to determine Ms Ts financial situation.
So, I think based on the information Virgin Money had  and given the size and term of the
loan they should reasonably have done more to get a clearer picture of Ms Ts financial
situation before deciding whether to lend. I dont think the checks it carried out were
reasonable and proportionate in Ms Ts case.
As I dont think Virgin Money carried out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to
consider what would have happened had they carried out further checks. I cant be sure
what further checks would have been done or what they would have shown, so weve asked
Ms T for more information about her circumstances.
From what I can see Ms T said her income was £1,002 and the amount she paid towards
her rent was £108 per month, but she was receiving housing benefit as part of her benefit
income. This meant her actual monthly rent was around £500. So, taking this and the loan
repayment into account she would have had around £228 per month for food, utilities and
day to day living costs.
I havent seen evidence of Ms Ts actual outgoings at the time but her representative has
provided her income and expenditure for around August 2021  this shows monthly
outgoings that include utilities £80, phone £52, water £17, TV licence £13 and food £338. In
total (excluding other day to day living costs) around £500. And overall Ms Ts income and
expenditure shows shes left with around £50 in disposable income. Ms T still lives at the
same address so I think her utilities, food and day to day living costs for around the time of 
the loan in 2018 would have exceeded £228. So, I dont think Ms T would have had any
disposable income left to her at that time. I think this is supported by how quickly she fell into
arrears and financial difficulty. Virgin Money has shown that in April 2021 Ms T had only paid
two of the 60 contracted monthly repayments. So, I dont think the loan was sustainable and
it was irresponsible of Virgin Money to lend to her.
Where a business has done something wrong, our service usually aims to put the consumer
back in the position they would have been in had the incident not occurred. But, in cases
where a business has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely possible  as the lending provided
cannot be undone.
In this case, I understand Ms T is struggling financially but she does have a regular income
and she has had the benefit of the principle amount from the loan. I think its fair that Ms T
should repay the money she borrowed and had the use of. But I think Virgin Money should
refund all the interest and charges Ms T has paid on her loan.While I think its fair that Ms Ts credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, I
dont think its fair that she should be disadvantaged by Virgin Moneys decision to lend
to her irresponsibly. So, I think Virgin Money should remove any negative information
recorded on Ms Ts credit file associated with this loan.
Its clear from Ms Ts testimony that the situation has caused her distress and inconvenience
at a time when shes been suffering ill health. And that the requests for payment when shed
made clear she didnt have any disposable income has added to the stress shes under. As I
dont think Virgin Money should have lent to Ms T I think they should also compensate her
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused by paying her £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms T hasnt asked for any further representations for consideration. Virgin Money accepted 
the provisional decision in essence but commented:
the affordability assessment would have considered other expenditure not solely    
Ms Ts rent.; 
when applying for the loan Ms T gave her monthly rent as £108. If her actual monthly 
rental commitment had been included, she would most likely have failed their 
affordability checks; and
expressed concern about Ms Ts credit file accurately reflecting her financial 
circumstances.
Ive considered Virgin Moneys comments. When reaching my decision, I considered the 
business file supplied by them. This included the loan application, loan agreement and 
affordability report. In the application form Ms T did say her monthly rent was £108 per 
month, but as I said in my provisional decision, with the information they had I would have 
expected Virgin Money to have made further checks to establish Ms Ts financial position. If 
they had, as they have accepted, I think it would have been determined that the loan was 
unaffordable for Ms T.
Virgin Money has expressed concern about Ms Ts credit file being an accurate reflection of 
her financial circumstances. In making my decision Ive asked for the adverse information 
about the loan only to be removed from Ms Ts credit file, not the loan itself as she will still 
need to repay any of the principle amount that is still outstanding.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
refund all interest and charges that Ms T has paid up to date on the loan;
treat any payments that Ms Ts made as a reduction of the principle amount, for any 
capital balance that remains outstanding, Virgin Money should attempt to
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Ms T;
remove any adverse information on Ms Ts credit file in relation to this loan; and
pay Ms T £150 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022. 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman