DRN-2571653
The complaint
Mrs R makes a number of complaints about John Lewis Financial Services Limited following 
it failing to update her address.
What happened
Mrs R says she told John Lewis in February 2018 that she had moved address, but it didnt 
update its records. She says she wouldnt have received statements for about two years. 
Mrs R says she tried to pay off the balance and close the account but there was a credit 
balance that prevented that. And John Lewis didnt refund the money. She says she was 
offered £200 compensation but would like the interest for the two-year period refunded and 
says her complaint wasnt dealt with appropriately.
John Lewis initially accepted it hadnt updated Mrs Rs address and didnt call her back as 
promised. It says it paid £200 compensation and offered a further £200 but will not refund 
the interest as it was correctly charged. John Lewis then looked at the complaint again and 
said it didnt have a record of the change of address and says Mrs R told it twice she had 
updated the address online which is not possible. It says it asked Mrs R if the account details 
for the refund were the same details as used for the payment, and she said they were. But in 
fact they were not, and that is the reason for the refund problem.
Mrs R had brought her complaint to us, but the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mrs R had told John Lewis twice that she had updated the address 
online before later denying she said that. He also thought Mrs R had given incorrect 
information about the payment and that it was a balance transfer and not from her debit 
card. The investigator thought overall the compensation and offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs R doesnt accept that view and questions how long John Lewis took to provide 
information to us and maintains it told her it had made a mistake about the address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and think 
John Lewis has dealt fairly with it.
I have listened to the calls between John Lewis and Mrs R and Im satisfied that Mrs R told it 
twice that she had updated the address online before later saying in a different call I never 
said it was done online . So, I dont think its clear in those circumstances if Mrs R did tell 
John Lewis that she had changed address and Im satisfied that John Lewis has made clear 
that an address could only be changed by calling it and not online. I also think it likely that if 
Mrs R had called to update the address, an electronic footprint would have been left on John 
Lewiss records and I dont think such a record was left. In any event John Lewis initially 
accepted making a mistake and has paid £200 compensation in circumstances where I dont 
think it clear if it did make a mistake.
In any event I dont think the address issue prevented Mrs R from making monthly payments 
and if she didnt receive account statements, she ought to have been aware of that. For that 
reason, I cant fairly order John Lewis to refund any interest or charges applied to the 
account for the two-year period which I think were correctly applied.
Im satisfied that Mrs R made a balance transfer to pay off her John Lewis account balance 
having seen records that confirm that. Im also satisfied that during the calls Mrs R was 
asked if the payment she made came from a balance transfer or a debit card to which she 
said debit card, and provided those details. So, I dont think John Lewis made a mistake by 
not refunding the credit balance as I think Mrs R had not given it correct information and I 
think that led to the problem in refunding that credit.
I appreciate Mrs R questions the length of time John Lewis took to provide us with 
information but that is not something I can comment on. I accept that John Lewis has 
provided Mrs R with conflicting information in that it initially accepted making a mistake with 
the address update. But I also think that Mrs R has benefited from that as she has been paid 
£200 compensation. I have not seen any evidence that compensation hasnt been paid.
Overall, I dont require John Lewis to take any further action in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I can see John Lewis has offered to pay a further £200 compensation and I think 
its up to it to decide if that offer is still available. I make clear that I cant fairly order that it be 
paid
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman