DRN-3751462
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Erudio Student Loans Limited defaulting her student loan 
account and not granting an age-related cancellation.
What happened
In 2014, Miss M was no longer able to defer her student loan account, but she also couldnt 
afford the minimum repayments. She made reduced payments through a debt management 
company, which Erudio accepted at first, and she kept up with the arrangement.
In 2018, Erudio sent Miss M a default notice, and when she didnt clear the arrears in full 
they defaulted the account.
In 2022, Miss M complained. She argued that Erudio should not have accepted payments for 
four years only to default her, and she felt her loan should still be cancelled once shed 
reached the appropriate age.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partly upheld the complaint. They 
found that Erudio were entitled to default the account, and this meant that the loan could no 
longer be cancelled. But they found that Erudio had waited too long to register the default, so 
they proposed that it should be backdated, and that any subsequent interest or charges 
should be removed.
Erudio didnt agree. They felt that the default date wasnt something our service could 
consider as they felt it wasn't part of Miss Ms original complaint. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss M expressed her dissatisfaction with the default in her original complaint. 
And its date falls within our inquisitorial remit. So I will consider the default date here.
Back in 2014, Erudio knew that Miss M was in a debt management plan because of financial 
difficulties. And this was a very long-term arrangement, so they knew her situation was 
unlikely to significantly change  which it did not.
As Miss M was making reduced payments, she was falling further into arrears each month. 
And I would have expected Erudio to default her once she was in 3 to 6 months worth of 
arrears. Further, I cant see that there was any significant change in Miss Ms situation 
between 2014 and 2018. So it doesnt seem fair for Erudio to have waited all the way until 
2018 to default her. This ultimately left her in a worse position than if shed just ignored the 
account instead of working constructively with Erudio. If Erudio wanted to default Miss M, 
they should have done it once she was 6 months behind at the latest.
It also sounds like Erudio might have been charging interest in the meantime, which they 
would not have been able to do once the account was defaulted. So I agree with our 
investigator that any interest or charges added in the meantime must be removed.
Miss M argued that Erudio couldnt default her since she was in a payment arrangement. But 
even with a payment plan, if one isnt making ones contractual minimum payments, then the 
financial business can still default the account  since its still falling further and further into 
arrears each month. And thats what happened here. I note Miss Ms comments about the 
wording on Erudios website, but thats just a guide for customers on how they tend to deal 
with accounts. Its not a binding guarantee that theyll never default a customer whos in a 
payment arrangement. Broadly speaking, companies are able to default customers whove 
been paying less than the minimum each month, and its not unusual to do so.
Miss M also argued that Erudio didnt follow the procedure for default and termination 
notices properly, and I understand why she thought to raise this. But I cant see that this 
wouldve made a difference, since even if Miss M had been given some more days before 
the account defaulted, shes said herself that she couldnt clear all the arrears and return the 
account to its contractual payments. So it still would have defaulted anyway.
Lastly, I can certainly appreciate why Miss M would like her account to be cancelled, and 
why it is so disappointing for her that it wont be cancelled. She does have my sympathy 
there. But even if Erudio had never defaulted this account, it still would not be able to be 
cancelled now. Thats because it cant be cancelled if the customer is in arrears. And Miss M 
is in substantial arrears, since shes been paying less than the minimum payment for years, 
and she confirmed shes not been in a position to pay all that off. More importantly, the 
account can no longer be cancelled once its defaulted. But the account did default here, and 
that default was fair  even if it should have been done at a much earlier point.
So in this particular case, I cant fairly tell Erudio to cancel the account as a whole. But like 
our investigator, I do find that they need to backdate the default.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to:
Backdate the default to six months after Miss M entered the account into her debt 
management plan; and-
Reconstruct the account to remove any interest or charges that were added since 
that point.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part, and direct Erudio 
Student Loans Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman