DRN-2430805
The complaint
Mr M has complained about an investment he took out following advice from Aviva Life & 
Pensions (UK) Limited (Aviva). He believes the investment wasnt suitable for him and he 
wants to be compensated for this and have any fees he has been charged returned.
What happened
Mr M received advice from Aviva in 2004 and invested £27,000 in a portfolio bond. Over the 
years he made some significant withdrawals and finally surrendered the bond in full in 2006.
Mr M complained to Aviva in 2020 and after investigating the matter Aviva upheld the 
complaint. It explained it wasnt satisfied the advice Mr M was given was in his best interests 
and concluded that Mr M wouldnt have invested at all.
To address this mis-sale the method Aviva followed was to put Mr M into the position he 
would have been in had he not invested in the first place. This involved comparing the value 
of Mr Ms actual (unsuitable) investment with what his investment would have been worth 
had it remaining in a deposit type account which represented a no risk investment.
When Aviva carried out the calculations to work out the redress, it found that the unsuitable 
portfolio bond actually made Mr M more money than had he left his money in a deposit 
account. Therefore, even while Mr M was given unsuitable advice he hadnt suffered any 
financial loss as a result of this wrong advice. Therefore, no monies were due to Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and also wasnt satisfied that Aviva had included any 
fees in its calculations. Because of this he brought his complaint to our service.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who didnt feel the complaint could 
be upheld. She was satisfied with the way Aviva had calculated any potential redress as well 
as the notional benchmark Aviva had used to represent a more suitable investment for Mr M. 
She was also satisfied that the calculation would have taken account of any fees Mr M had 
been charged with so nothing further was owed to him.
Mr M disagreed strongly with the assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint.
As Aviva upheld the complaint and found the advice given to Mr M in 2004 unsuitable, I dont 
intend to investigate this point any further. I have, however, considered whether Avivas 
decision that Mr Ms money shouldnt have been put at any risk is reasonable, and I am 
satisfied it is. Therefore, given this outcome the redress method that should be followed by 
Aviva is to compare the actual value of Mr Ms unsuitable investment with the value of an 
investment which represents, as far as it can, what Mr M should have done with his money 
had he been advised properly. To calculate whether any loss has been suffered a 
benchmark needs to be used to represent the growth Mr M would have achieved had he 
been given correct and suitable advice. This is because this is hypothetical and neither Aviva 
or this Service can be certain exactly where Mr M would have put his money or what growth 
this would have attracted. So the benchmark used in this calculation needs to represent as 
close as possible Mr Ms money not being put at any risk. 
Having considered the redress and calculation method Aviva used when it investigated Mr 
Ms complaint, I am satisfied it did what I have explained above and this is in line with the 
approach and methodology we would use in this Service in similar complaints.
Its important to clarify that within this methodology provision is made to take account of the 
administrative charges (annual management charges) that Mr Ms investment has incurred. 
These types of charges apply to all equity-based investment and in most investments, they 
are taken from the investment itself rather than being charged separately. The growth that is 
hoped to be achieved by the investment effectively cancels out these charges. So, this is 
why the charges are included as part of the methodology of calculating any redress if 
unsuitable advice has been found to have been given.
Therefore, in light of what I have explained I am satisfied that having felt the advice given to 
Mr M in 2004 was unsuitable Aviva has used the correct method of calculating the redress. 
This mirrors the methodology used by this Service in similar situations. And even though Mr 
M feels the annual management charges should also be refunded to him I am satisfied these 
form part of the redress calculation as they were taken from the investment rather than being 
paid to Aviva separately.
Even though Mr M was given unsuitable advice and it appears he shouldnt have invested at 
all he has benefitted financially. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for him to be paid any 
further monies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman