DRN-2919277
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Equifax Limited didnt sufficiently help him when there was an 
account on his credit file he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr K found a phone account on his credit file which he didnt recognise. It was in arrears and 
was negatively affecting his file. He queried things with the phone company, but they 
couldnt find any such account with his personal details. So he asked Equifax for help.
Equifax raised several disputes with the phone company, but they kept telling Equifax the 
information on Mr Ks credit file was correct. Whereas they kept telling Mr K they couldnt 
find any such account.
Mr K was only able to view the last digits of the account number on his credit file. And this 
was not enough for the phone companys customer services to find the account. He 
forwarded Equifax his emails with the phone company, showing they needed more details 
such as the full account number. He asked Equifax to give him the full account number, but 
Equifax would not do so. In the meantime, the account defaulted.
Mr K came to our service. Our investigator found the full account number in Equifaxs files 
and passed it to Mr K. The phone company were then able to find the account. I understand 
that they had registered the wrong address and have now agreed to remove the default 
subject to payment.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld this complaint. They said it was 
clear the phone company needed more details to find the account for Mr K, and Equifax 
should have given Mr K the full account number. It was his own data which he was entitled 
to, and it would have helped resolve things much sooner. They recommended that Equifax 
pays Mr K £100 compensation.
Equifax didnt agree. It said it couldnt give Mr K the full account number for security reasons 
and because its internal processes prevented it from doing so. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Im glad to see that Equifax tried disputing things on Mr Ks behalf, as it was meant to do. 
But when it became clear that this wasnt helping, and that the phone company needed more 
account details to find the account in dispute, Equifax should have been more pragmatic.
Mr K asked Equifax for the full account number, and this was a perfectly reasonable request. 
Equifax has cited security concerns, but this was Mr Ks own data and he was entitled to it. 
So I dont think thats a fair excuse for withholding his own information from him.
Equifax also said its internal processes prevented it from giving Mr Ks his account number. 
But, to be frank, thats an issue for Equifax to have worked around  it was not a good 
reason for it to leave Mr K stuck in a deadlock. Equifax is required to treat customers fairly  
it should not treat a customer unfairly just because a process tells it to. Its important to not 
put processes over people. Again, Equifax should have taken a more reasonable and 
pragmatic approach. It only needed to give someone their own data.
Here, Mr K was stuck in a deadlock where one part of the phone company was telling 
Equifax that the credit file data was correct; while the other was telling Mr K that the account 
didnt seem to exist and that they couldnt help him more without a full account number. In 
the meantime, Mr K was left with this account falling into a default and damaging his credit 
file, while he was powerless to deal with it. Equifax had the full account number at its 
disposal, and knew about this deadlock. It had the means to break the deadlock and help 
resolve things, it only involved giving a customer his own data, and its customer had asked it 
to do just that. So really, it should have done so.
Once we gave Mr K the full account number, it seems he was able to move his dispute 
forward and come to a resolution. Equifax could have facilitated this much earlier. Instead, 
by declining to help it put Mr K through further protracted correspondence, delayed things, 
and caused him stress and frustration. So like our investigator, I think Equifax needs to put 
that right. I agree with our investigator that £100 is a fair amount of compensation to pay in 
these circumstances, and is in line with our approach.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint, and direct Equifax Limited to pay 
him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman