DRN-2975091
The complaint
Mr D complains about the charges BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading 
as BMW Financial Services, asked him to pay when he returned a car after ending a 
financial agreement. He says its unfairly charged him for damage to the car and for excess 
mileage under a hire purchase agreement that he voluntarily terminated.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr D acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £63,529.84. Following an initial payment of £6,250, 
Mr D was required to make 47 monthly payments of £599.99 and there was a final optional 
payment of £29,080.31 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr D had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£31,764.92.
In December 2020, Mr D asked to terminate the agreement and BMWFS sent him a 
voluntary termination pack with a form to complete and return. Mr D returned the car, but he 
says that shortly afterwards, BMWFS told him hed need to pay vehicle damage charges of 
£605 and an excess mileage charge of £1,847.20 because hed exceeded the mileage 
allowance by 10,815 miles.
The agreement set out that Mr D had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge him 17.08 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire.
Mr D doesnt think an excess mileage charge is due. He says the hire purchase agreement 
limits his liability to one half of the total price payable - £31,764.92  and as hes already 
paid this, he says he cant be compelled to pay anymore to BMWFS. He says he doesnt 
think that BMWFS should be able to record this on his credit file.
Mr D also says the charge for vehicle damage isnt fair and he doesnt believe the criteria 
used by BMWFS to be an appropriate method to determine whether or not the car was 
returned in a reasonable condition.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Mr D signed in May 2017, and that they become payable under the hire 
purchase agreement prior to termination. And it said that the voluntary termination notice 
clearly set out that mileage would be pro-rated if the agreement ends early.
BMWFS says mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute reasonable care 
of the Vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. It said that exceeding the 
Maximum Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have 
caused the Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had 
the agreed mileage been adhered to and because of this it should be compensated 
accordingly. It said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an 
accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
BMWFS said the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) had issued a 
guide that was an industry wide accepted standard that defines fair wear and tear on 
vehicles when they are returnedat the end of a lease or finance agreement. And it was 
satisfied that an independent inspector had followed these guidelines when appraising the 
vehicle. But it did agree to revise its invoice for vehicle damage, and it reduced this to £181, 
charging Mr D for damage to two wheels and a scratch on the cars rear bumper.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ds agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ds accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £1,847.20.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
Our investigator also considered the revised damages charge that BMWFS asked Mr D to 
pay, but he said he thought they were reasonable. He explained that the vehicle appraisal 
had been undertaken by an independent third party and that it had been undertaken in 
accordance with BVRLA guidelines. And he said that the photographs hed seen showed 
evidence of the damage and that these charges had been correctly applied.Mr D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr D says hed paid for the car and 
terminated the agreement, so it isnt right that the excess mileage charge applies. And it 
wasnt right that BMWFS could report arrears on his credit file for non-payment of the 
charges.
Mr D says fair wear and tear is not a one stop shop. He acknowledges that there were 
some scuff marks on the wheels when he returned the car but says as one of the largest 
cars on the market, with 20 wheels and low-profile tyres, this sort of damage is unsurprising.
Mr D also says that as he paid for extras to be fitted to the car  more than £1,300  
BMWFS should take this into account when calculating how much to charge him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr D use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£29,080.31.
While Mr D was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, such as 
maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and 
overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen 
should Mr D not meet those requirements.
Mr D exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Mr D disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,847.20 that he has been asked 
to pay. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination. Various 
sections of the agreement Mr D had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on early 
termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mr Ds specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr D is liable to pay any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ds hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any Excess 
Mileage Charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Ds agreement 
is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Mr D has paid at least half the total amount payable under 
the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts 
with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr D.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr D is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Next, Ive considered whether the charges applied by BMWFS for damage to the car are fair 
and reasonable. In this particular case, although BMWFS originally invoiced Mr D for 
damages totalling £605, it reduced this charge to £181 when Mr D first complained.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that if the vehicle isnt returned in good 
repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), Mr D will be charged for each item of 
damage that needs repairing in order to return the vehicle to the state that BMWFS expects.  
So, Im satisfied that Mr D was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the 
question is whether the charges applied by BMWFS are fair and reasonable.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. And Im satisfied that having regard to 
these guidelines in determining what is or isnt fair wear and tear is entirely appropriate. So, I 
have taken these into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable for BMWFS to 
charge Mr D.
BMWFS revised invoice list three areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and 
tear:
1. Wheel LHF  Scratched  Rim over 100mm Refurbish £65.00
2. Wheel LHR  Scratched  Rim over 100mm Refurbish £65.00
3. Bumper rear  Scratched left corner (greater than 25mm) Repaint £45.00
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels and 
bumpers. It says:Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Bumpers  surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs that BMWFS provided, and Im satisfied that the 
damage to the two wheels and the rear bumper as detailed in the inspection report is outside 
fair wear and tear. The two alloys have scuffs exceeding the acceptable level of 50mm. And 
the scratch to the left corner of the rear bumper exceeds 25mm. Ive considered what Mr D 
says about the size of the wheels and the types of tyre on the car and that he thinks this 
means damage is unsurprising. I dont agree  I think its reasonable to apply the same 
standard when driving a car, regardless of its size.
Given this, Im satisfied that the charges for damage outside fair wear and tear that BMWFS 
asked Mr D to pay were applied fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that 
BMWFS has acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
 
Finally, Ive considered what Mr D says about the accessories he purchased and returned 
with the car. He says BMWFS should take the value of these into account, but I must tell him 
I dont agree. This is because the cost of any accessories or after sales items doesnt 
necessarily increase the price of a vehicle, and even if they do, its unlikely to be by the 
same amount as the initial cost of purchasing those items  so it would be difficult to 
determine any value that may or may not have been added. But in this particular case, these 
items were not purchased and included as part of the finance agreement; BMWFS didnt 
provide financing for these items, so it wouldnt be right to require BMWFS to take the value 
of these items into account. 
In any event, Mr D didnt have to return these items when he returned the car. If Mr D 
wanted to keep these items, he couldve removed them from the car before he returned it. 
But in leaving them with the car, there was no obligation on BMWFS to take account of their 
value when calculating any charges due.
Mr D says that its unfair for BMWFS to report arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However, if Mr D hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated the 
agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either inaccurate, 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman