DRN-3483408
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (AFS) unfairly terminated his hire purchase agreement and did not assist him 
when he was struggling financially. 
What happened
In November 2017, Mr M acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from AFS. 
Mr M fell into arrears on his agreement in the latter half of 2019. He initially told AFS this was 
due to receiving less work through his self-employed business, and later due to not receiving 
payments for work that had been completed. 
Mr M agreed to some arrangements to repay the arrears with AFS. Although he paid some 
of the arrears, he also continued to miss some of the newer repayments that fell due. The 
last payment Mr M made towards the agreement was in February 2020. 
The agreement was terminated and defaulted in July 2020 after Mr M failed to make any 
further payments and the arrears continued to increase. AFS says it received no contact 
from Mr M during this time. AFS then contacted Mr M in July 2020 to say it would arrange to 
repossess the car. Mr M got in contact with AFS shortly after to discuss the account. He said 
his business had been impacted by the global pandemic and wanted to put any 
repossession on hold, reinstate the agreement and seek a payment holiday. 
AFS contacted its collection agent and asked for the repossession to be placed on hold 
while it waited for guidance from the regulator in relation to consumers impacted by the 
pandemic. However, the collection agent visited Mr Ms property anyway in August 2020 and 
attempted to repossess the car. The repossession didnt go ahead, but Mr M complained 
about the actions of the agent. AFS apologised and paid him £50 compensation for the 
upset that was caused. AFS later increased its offer of compensation to £200. 
Mr M says that since this time he has tried to speak to AFS to arrange a repayment plan for 
the arrears as well as continue to make payments under the agreement. He says that since 
April, hes been on hold on the telephone for up to four hours at a time without speaking to 
anyone and when he has got through the agent hasnt been able to help him. He says he 
wanted confirmation that the agreement would be reinstated before he made any payments 
towards the arrears, but AFS ignored his communication attempts. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that AFS had 
acted fairly and reasonably in terminating the agreement and seeking repayment of the 
outstanding balance. He didnt think AFS could have offered any further support to Mr M 
than it had already following the termination of the agreement. Further, he wasnt persuaded 
that Mr M had tried to mitigate his position by trying to contact AFS in other ways such as 
through the customer portal or by email. Lastly, he thought the compensation it had offered 
regarding the attempted repossession in August 2020 was fair to resolve that issue. 
Mr M didnt agree and provided a substantive reply. In summary, he said:
AFS didnt provide adequate ability to contact them by telephone in order to resolve 
the issues with the agreement. AFS also ignored offers to repay around £3,500 and 
instead sent debt collectors. The fact he had offered to pay this amount shows he 
was keen to resolve things even during the unprecedented difficulties of the 
pandemic. This wasnt an issue of affordability as he was offering to repay the 
arrears. AFS offered no support nor made any attempts to contact him to resolve the 
problem. 
Its unfair to hold him financially responsible for any shortfall should the car not 
achieve a sufficient price at auction to clear the outstanding balance. He needs a car 
for work and the additional financial burden would prevent him from acquiring 
another car. 
He says he contacted AFS regularly in 2019 prior to the pandemic to discuss his 
financial difficulties. He says this demonstrates that he has been co-operative and 
keen to resolve arrears and it was only due to AFS not answering their phonelines 
during the pandemic that prevented the arrears being resolved. 
He says he attempted to contact AFS multiple times in April 2020 to ask for 
assistance due to his financial circumstances. He says that he documented three 
occasions (although he says he called more than this) where he was on hold for 
over an hour without being able to speak to anyone. He says AFS have a 
requirement and responsibility to be contactable and they werent. 
He said that he did email AFS after the termination and his email was ignored. He 
says that he wasnt aware of the customer portal or how that might help get in 
contact with AFS until after the termination. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr M stopped making payments towards the agreement after 
February 2020 and that he had been struggling to maintain payments for a large part of 
2019. By the time the covid-19 global pandemic began to affect the UK, Mr M was already in 
arrears on his agreement. In other words, his financial difficulties pre-dated the pandemic. 
This is relevant because the financial services regulator put in place temporary guidance for 
firms on how it should treat consumers who were financially impacted by the pandemic. The 
guidance included providing consumers with a three month payment holiday where it was 
requested (later increased to a total of six months). However, the guidance was intended to 
apply to those consumers who, but for the pandemic, would likely have been able to 
maintain payments on their agreement. Given that Mr Ms arrears and difficulties pre-dated 
the pandemic, Im not persuaded that the guidance applied to someone in his position. 
Further, Mr M didnt ask for a payment holiday until July 2020, which was after the 
agreement had already been terminated due to non-payment. As the agreement was already 
terminated, he wouldnt have been eligible for a payment holiday in any event. So, for these 
reasons, I dont think AFS acted unfairly in not offering Mr M a payment holiday when he 
asked for one.
For those consumers to which the covid-19 temporary guidance didnt apply, AFS was still required to comply with the rules and guidance within the regulators Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook, known as CONC. These set out that AFS was required to treat Mr M fairly and 
with forbearance when he notified them of his financial difficulties. 
However, Ive seen no evidence to persuade me that Mr M did tell AFS about his difficulties 
between February 2020 and July 2020. He says he made several phone calls, often waiting 
on hold for as much as four hours without being able to speak to anyone. While Ive no 
reason to doubt what Mr M says, he could have attempted to contact AFS in other ways 
given the difficulty he says he was having with calls. For example, Mr M could have sent an 
email to AFS, particularly as he had been corresponding this way with AFS collections team 
prior to the pandemic. AFS also told us that Mr M had access to its customer portal which 
had a contact facility. 
I see no reason to doubt that Mr M wasnt aware of the customer portal until after the 
agreement was terminated. I also accept it was likely difficult to get hold of AFS on the 
telephone and that this would have been very frustrating and time consuming for Mr M. Im 
mindful that this difficulty was with the backdrop of an unprecedented global pandemic which 
will have impacted AFS ability to adequately staff its telephone lines. It wouldnt therefore be 
fair for me to say that it was wholly to blame for Mr Ms difficulty in speaking to someone on 
the telephone. However, I agree with Mr M that this wasnt his fault either. 
Given the difficulty Mr M says he was having in speaking to someone on the telephone, 
I cant see any reason why he wouldnt or couldnt have contacted AFS by email instead. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Mr M made reasonable attempts to discuss the arrears with 
AFS prior to the termination of the agreement. He could have done more to mitigate the 
actions that followed. I can see that AFS did send Mr M letters warning him about the arrears 
so he would have been on notice of the importance of getting in touch with AFS. As he had 
other options available to him for contact and didnt utilise these, I dont think AFS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in terminating the agreement, as it had received no contact or 
payment from Mr M for many months. 
Mr M says that AFS didnt do anything further to support him after he got in touch with them 
in July 2020. However, I dont agree thats quite right. AFS agreed not to repossess the car 
and it allowed him to continue using it for a significant period of time (more than a year) 
despite Mr M continuing not to make any payments. Although I accept its collections agent 
did still attempt to repossess the car on one occasion in error, Im satisfied that AFS has 
apologised for that mistake and offered to pay fair compensation in the amount of £200 to 
put things right. I dont consider it needs to do more regarding that issue. 
Mr M says that AFS ignored his offers of repayment, including a substantial sum of around 
£3,500. However, it seems that Mr M was only prepared to pay this amount if AFS agreed to 
reinstate the agreement. I dont think AFS refusal to engage with this offer was necessarily 
unfair given the agreement was already terminated and the full amount was already due for 
payment, which was significantly more than £3,500. While I do think it would have been 
helpful for AFS to have replied, I dont think the lack of a response made any difference as 
the agreement was already terminated and it seems unlikely AFS would have agreed to 
reinstate the agreement. 
Even if I considered that AFS ought to have provided Mr M with a payment holiday and/or 
reinstated the agreement (which I dont), I dont think Mr M would now be in a materially 
different position to what he is in now. I say this because Mr M told us that the money he 
would have used to pay the arrears was all spent on other essential living costs and 
commitments between July 2021 and January 2022 due to further issues with work and 
income. Its clear from what hes told us he didnt have sufficient income to support all of his 
commitments at that time. This means that had the agreement been reinstated and had Mr M been given payment holidays in 2020, he would still have found himself in a position 
where he couldnt afford the repayments under the agreement for an extended period of 
time. It follows, that its more likely than not the agreement would always have been 
terminated, just at a later date.
Lastly, Mr M says hes worried about any outstanding balance that might be left to pay after 
AFS sells the car at auction. I remind AFS of its obligations to treat Mr M fairly and with 
forbearance should he not be able to afford to pay back any shortfall  if there is any.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to pay Mr M £200 (if it hasnt 
already been paid) for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman