DRN-1732145
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2009. 
Ms D says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2009 Ms D took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a loan over the Internet. 
The policy was a regular premium policy and it provided protection for Ms D's loan payments 
in the event she couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy 
cost around £52 a month.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  they didn't 
think Santander had clearly disclosed the cost before Ms D made her decision to buy the 
policy. And given the cost and her circumstances, they didn't think it likely Ms D would've still 
gone ahead had Santander been clearer about things. 
Because Santander disagrees - it believes it did enough to disclose the cost - the complaint 
comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Ms D's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms D's complaint - I think the adjudicator has 
reached the right outcome here. My reasons are set out below.
This was a sale by Internet. Santander has provided example Internet loan application 
screen shots that it says  and I accept on the balance of probabilities - are reflective of what 
Ms D wouldve likely seen when she applied for her loan and PPI in 2009.
Ive looked at the screenshots carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded Ms D was fairly 
and reasonably given clear information about the cost of PPI at the point she was asked to 
decide if she wanted it. I say this because on the part of the loan application where Ms D 
was asked if she wanted PPI with her loan  Ms D had to select either 'Yes' or 'No'   no cost 
information was provided.
Santander says the cost of the PPI couldn't be provided at this point because it was only 
calculated once the loan had been approved and the interest rate decided. And I accept this. But I cant see this was explained clearly on the PPI section of the Internet loan application 
where Ms D was asked whether she wanted it or not.
Santander also says Ms D couldve used an online calculator on its website, which it says 
wouldve given an estimate of what the loan repayment both with and without PPI wouldve 
been. But importantly it also says that the calculator wasn't a mandatory part of the loan 
application process. So the calculator didn't for example appear on the PPI section of the 
loan application - or a link provided to it - at the point Ms D was asked if she wanted to take it 
out.
Im mindful that even if Ms D had used the online calculator (I cant say with any degree of 
certainty whether she did or not) the figures provided by the calculator were only estimates 
and not exact figures. And as Ive already said, Im not persuaded this was made clear in the 
PPI section of the online loan application. So I dont think Ms D was fairly and reasonably 
made aware of how much shed be paying for the PPI at the point she was asked and then 
chose to take it out.
Santander has pointed to the fact that Ms D wouldve been sent a welcome pack, which 
included a letter giving more details of the PPI, including information on the cost. And its 
sent us an example of what this information looked like. 
I accept its likely Ms D received something like this  after all it contained the credit 
agreement she needed to sign and return to get the loan. But importantly Ms D didn't get this 
information until after shed agreed to take out the PPI. She wasn't warned to hold off 
making a decision about PPI during the application stage until the welcome pack with the full 
details was received. And she wasn't asked as part of the pack to re-confirm her decision 
about PPI  for example by ticking a box on the credit agreement or signing separately for it.
So overall, based on the evidence provided I'm not persuaded Santander gave Ms D 
information about the cost of the PPI, which was clear, fair and not misleading information 
before she agreed to take it out. 
I've gone on to consider in light of the above whether Ms D has suffered loss as a result. 
And having done so, I think she has - Im not persuaded that, more likely than not, Ms D 
wouldve still gone ahead with PPI if shed been given clearer information about the cost of 
the policy. I say this because in light of the not insignificant cost of PPI, and her particular 
circumstances at the time - including that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation 
- I dont think Ms D would've thought that the cost and benefit proposition worked for her.
It follows that I think Ms D has lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Ms D in the position shed be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasn't been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Ms D the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
If Santander has already paid Ms D back some of the money she paid for the PPI in 
relation to high commission and profit share it received, it can take that off from the amount it owes her.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided to uphold this complaint and make an award in Ms D's 
favour. Santander UK Plc should pay Ms D compensation in line with the instructions in the 
section above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman