DRN-1543134
Complaint
Mr G complains that after completing a transfer from his currency account with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc extra fees he didnt know about were charged.
Background
Mr G holds a Swiss Franc (CHF) currency account with HSBC. He used it to complete two 
transfers online for around 10,000 CHF and 5,000 CHF. He says he read on the website the 
charges for these transfers would be 6 CHF per transfer, so allowed for that in the amount 
he was sending.
He was then contacted by the recipient of the funds, to say he was 14 CHF, and 20 CHF, 
short on the two transfers. Mr G says after spending around 30 minutes looking through 
HSBCs website, he found out that further charges would be applied by the correspondent 
bank. His concerns are that this wasnt made clear on HSBCs website when making the 
payment, and he also feels misled by HSBC  because even when knowing about the 
additional fees theres no way for him to know how much theyd be before sending his 
payment. So, he cant properly calculate payments when hes sending them. As a result of 
these concerns, he complained to HSBC.
HSBC replied to the complaint. They said that when you send a payment overseas, both 
they and the receiving bank may charge fees. In addition, intermediary banks may be used  
which may also charge fees. They added that when someone sends a payment overseas, 
they can choose which of the fees to pay  and that theyd tell their customers how the 
charges apply, depending on the type of option they select. They said Mr G had chosen only 
to pay the HSBC fees, so any other fees would be deducted from the balance sent, and they 
couldnt know what other fees would be charged.
Unhappy with this Mr G asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and she 
felt HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. She explained that HSBC had shown her screens 
which said further deductions would be made and didnt think it reasonable to expect HSBC 
to know the fees of every external bank.
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G argues that it wasnt made clear to him that fees would be deducted from the amount 
he sent.
HSBC have provided us with screen shots to show what their customers see when sending 
payments. One of these screen shots shows the message thats displayed when the option 
to pay HSBCs fees only is selected  the same option Mr G has told us he used.The note that comes up when selecting this option says any fees charged by the receiving 
bank, or any other bank, will be deducted from the payment amount.
So, Im satisfied HSBC provided Mr G with enough information to know that if fees were 
taken from the payment, theyd be taken from the amount sent.
Mr G though is also very unhappy about HSBC not telling him much the fees for any other 
bank in the payment chain would be.
I can understand his concerns, especially as the example hes given is what if the charges 
applied were 5,000 CHF.
But I think its helpful to explain at this point that our role is only to consider the individual 
dispute raised and look at what happened  rather than hypothetical situations. I also cant 
order HSBC to change their systems and how they operate, in the way Mr G has suggested. 
If he continues to have concerns about HSBCs approach to international transfers, he can 
speak to the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
HSBCs process is that they wont necessarily know what fees might be charged by external 
banks. I realise Mr G feels very strongly about this issue, but I dont think thats 
unreasonable. I say that because banks around the world are likely to regularly change their 
fees, and Mr Gs suggestion would mean that HSBC have to always know what those fees 
are. HSBC have said if Mr G needs more information on this at the time of making a transfer, 
he can get in touch with them, and theyll see what they can do to help.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that HSBC made Mr G aware any further 
fees charged would come from the amount hed sent. And as HSBC wouldnt have 
automatically known what those fees were, theyve not done anything wrong in not telling 
him how much theyd be.
My decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman