DRN-2799263
The complaint
Ms W complains that a car that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
supplied under a hire agreement was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In August 2019 Ms W entered into a two-year hire agreement for a new car. She was to
make an initial payment of £1,286.96 plus a further 23 monthly payments of £428.99. Both
figures included VAT.
In or around February 2019 Ms W experienced serious problems with the car. It was taken
for repairs. Due in part to the Covid-19 pandemic, they were not completed until August
2020. Shortly after that, however, the car suffered a second serious failure, requiring a
replacement engine. Even then, Ms W says that warning lights were showing, and it was not
until the middle of September 2020 that the car was fixed.
Ms W was provided with a courtesy car for most of the time that hers was being repaired.
She says however that the cars she was given were of a much lower specification (and a
less prestigious model).
Ms W complained to MBFS. She said she had not had use of the car she was paying for
between February and September  around seven months.
MBFS accepted that Ms Ws car had not been of satisfactory quality. It gave Ms W two
options to try to resolve her concerns. They were:  
She could continue to use the car and MBFS would pay her £1,000 in compensation 
for the problems she had had; or
She could return the car and MBFS would refund the initial payment and 10% of the 
rental payments to date (the latter amounting to one months rental). 
If Ms W wanted to return the car, MBFS said she could still refer the matter to this service so 
that we could assess whether further compensation was appropriate.
Ms W did not think either offer went far enough. She made a counter-offer but no agreement
was reached and she referred the case to this service. Our investigator thought that the
options MBFS had provided were fair. She noted in particular that it was not the fault of
MBFS that repairs had taken as long as they had and that MBFS was under no contractual
duty to provide a courtesy car.
Ms W did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
There was no real dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality, as it should have been. 
I therefore had to consider what the appropriate remedy was, given that repairs had been 
carried out. Through no fault of Ms W or of MBFS, those repairs had taken longer than they 
should have done. While her own car was off the road, MBFS had supplied Ms W with a 
courtesy car, although this had been of a much lower specification. She had continued to 
make the full contractual payments during that time.
I did not feel therefore that Ms W had been fully compensated for not having her car for 
several months. I thought too that the offer MBFS had made was a little low. I thought that a 
fairer resolution would be for MBFS to pay Ms W £1,500  around half of the hire payments 
she had made when she did not have the car  together with a further £500 in recognition of 
the distress she had suffered when the car broke down twice.      
MBFS agreed to that proposal but Ms W did not. She said that she had recently had further 
problems with the car, including warning lights indicating serious issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Ms W says about further problems with the car, but stress that my decision only 
deals with the matters that MBFS has had the opportunity to address and which this service 
has been able to consider. Put another way, my decision explains how I believe the 
complaint that Ms W referred to us in September 2020 should be resolved. I have not 
considered any additional issues which might have arisen since then. It therefore remains 
open to Ms W to bring a fresh complaint about matters which may have arisen since then. 
I note what MS W has said about her concerns when the car broke down twice and her 
comments that a car that was only six months old should need to be rewired and then have 
its engine replaced. These are however all matters I have taken into account in considering 
how this complaint should be resolved.            
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my final 
decision is that, to resolve Ms Ws complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
should pay her £2,000.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman