DRN-2315500
The complaint
Mrs E says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
Mrs E took out a store card with PPI in June 2004 when she was out shopping. 
The policy covered Mrs E if she wasnt able to work. 
Mrs E told us that PPI wasnt something she needed.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and it 
didnt agree to uphold the complaint.
So the complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint because I dont think she wouldve bought the 
policy if she had been given clearer information about its cost and benefits.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs E clear enough information about the policy so she 
could decide for herself if she should take it out. 
The store card application she filled in shows that the PPI cost 1.5p for every £1 on the 
monthly outstanding balance - and Mrs E may have been told this. But I dont think its very 
likely that the policys true cost and benefits were explained clearly enough to allow Mrs E to 
work out whether PPI offered her any useful benefit it was worthwhile for her to buy. For 
example, I dont know if AXA explained to Mrs E how interest might be added on or if shed 
have to continue to pay the premiums during a claim.
Mrs E told us she had other means she couldve relied on if she wasnt able to work. 
In particular, Mrs E told us that she wouldve had savings worth around 6 months of her pay. 
And that she couldve used these to pay her store card monthly repayments if she wasnt 
able to work. 
Ive taken into account that AXA said without further information there was no evidence that 
Mrs E would have had sufficient cover to negate her need for the policy.
But Ive no reason to doubt the information that Mrs E has provided. Shes consistently told 
us she had savings she couldve used to pay her store card and the amount of savings shes 
told us about doesnt seem unreasonable to me given her situation. 
This means that the policy offered her only limited value given the other means she couldve 
relied on. 
On balance, based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think Mrs E wouldve bought the 
policy if AXA had given her clear enough information about the cost and benefits to be able 
to decide if it was good value for her. 
So, I think Mrs E has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Es store card account is still active or has been 
closed. Ive noted that the PPI policy is already cancelled. 
If Mrs Es account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs E would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs E owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs E paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. AXA should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Es account has been closed: 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs E would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs E that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman