DRN-2811772
The complaint
Miss M says Loans 2 Go Limited gave her a loan that was unaffordable, and the interest rate
was extortionate given she was tied in for 18 months. 
What happened
 Miss M took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 27 April 2019. It was for
£750 and the monthly repayments were £171.42. The total repayable was £3085.56. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Miss M says Loans 2 Go didnt complete enough checks to make sure she could afford the
loan, had it done so it would have realised she was in a cycle of debt. The cost and term of
the loan just made everything worse for her and she had to borrow further.
Our adjudicator found that Loans 2 Go wasnt wrong to have given the loan. He said there
wasnt anything in the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, or the information Miss M had
subsequently provided, that suggested she would be unable to sustainably repay the loan.
Miss M disagreed saying better checks would have shown she had outstanding loans; was
using her overdraft every month; and had repayment plans in place with debt collections
agencies for older debts.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to let me have any 
additional comments or evidence by 15 May 2021. As both parties responded before this 
deadline I can now issue my final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Miss M before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure, including existing credit commitments. It
checked Miss Ms credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and
credit history. It then adjusted Miss Ms declared income and expenditure, so it based her
application on a monthly disposable income of £186.70. From these checks Loans 2 Go
concluded the monthly repayments of £171.42 were affordable for Miss M.
Im not persuaded the checks were proportionate or borrower-focused. Miss M was applying
for a loan over a term of 18 months and although the monthly repayments were not high as a
percentage of her income, Loans 2 Gos affordability assessment showed Miss M would be
left with disposable income of only £15.28. It could see from her credit file that she
historically had problems managing her money. I am not saying this was a reason to decline
her application but given these two factors combined I think Loans 2 Go should have
completed a fuller financial review before lending. In the circumstances of this case for the
checks to be proportionate and borrower-focused I think the affordability assessment needed
to be based on verified actuals, it wasnt enough to rely on averages or statistics or credit
information that it knows may not be up to date or comprehensive.
I appreciate that L2G used a higher expenditure figure compared to the amount Miss M had
declared at the time of the application and reduced her income by 10% to allow for monthly
fluctuations. But, I dont think those adjustments were enough for the lender to be confident
that this meant its assessment was accurate without better checks. Or that Miss M would be
able to make all her repayments, without having to borrow to do so, without her failing to
make any other repayment she had a duty to make, and without the repayments having a
significant adverse effect on her financial situation. And this was what it was obliged to
check. As I cant see it did this, I dont think the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
I have looked at copies of Miss Ms to bank statements to see what better checks would
have shown. Im not saying Loans 2 Go needed to have done this, but its one way to
understand what a fuller financial review might have shown.
And I think the bank statements show Miss M was having problems managing her money. In
the month prior to her application she had made a large drawdown (£1316) on a high-cost
running credit account, she was borrowing from a credit union, repaying another high-cost
loan and making repayments to four debt collections agencies. In addition, this loan meant
Miss M would have to pay a significant amount of her monthly income to meet all her credit
commitments. Miss Ms income fluctuated. Taking this into account, giving the loan to Miss
M meant her credit commitments would increase to between 27 and 33% of her gross
income. And the FLA Lending Code (2006) sets out that a consumer spending more than
25% of their income on credit could be an indication of financial difficulties. I think these facts
together would have indicated to Loans 2 Go that Miss M was unlikely to be able to sustain
her loan repayments for 18 months without some suffering some kind of financial detriment.
So, in summary, as a responsible lender I dont think Loans 2 Go would have made the
same lending decision had it carried out proportionate, borrower-focused checks. It would
have realised that there was a high risk the loan was not sustainably affordable for Miss M.
It follows I currently think Miss M has lost out as result of Loans 2 Gos decision.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Miss M says the interest rate Loans 2 Go charged was
extortionate, particularly given she was locked in for 18 months. But I can see from the 
precontract credit information and the loan agreement - both of which Miss M signed
electronically - that the monthly repayment, the loan term and total cost for credit were set
out clearly, alongside the APR and the interest rate.
The interest rate was high, but Miss M had to actively engage in the loan application
process, so I think its likely that she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I havent
seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Miss M unfairly or breached
industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will
be refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
I then set out what Loans2Go would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
Miss M responded to the provisional decision saying she was happy with the outcome. 
Loans 2 Go acknowledged receipt of the decision and said it would await further instructions. It did not supply any new information or comments. So it follows I have no reason to change 
the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision and I am upholding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the capital that she borrowed, because
she had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been provided to her.
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt back, then
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Miss M made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ms loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ms complaint. Loamns2Go Limited must now out things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman