DRN-1637471
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Elderbridge Limited didnt offer support despite knowing about her 
difficult circumstances. She asks that it applies a reduced interest rate to her account 
retrospectively and removes adverse information from her credit file.
What happened
Mrs M and her late husband took out a second charge loan in 2006. The loan was 
transferred to Elderbridge in 2016. 
Mrs Ms husband died in 2008. Mrs M was diagnosed with a health condition in 2011 and 
had to stop working in 2013. In late 2018 she contacted Elderbridge about her financial 
difficulties, and it agreed she could make reduced payments. 
Mrs M says she didnt receive statements from Elderbridge and only recently realised the 
interest is 8%. She says shes tried to repay the loan by increasing her first charge mortgage 
loan or re-financing elsewhere, but the arrears information recorded on her credit file by 
Elderbridge prevented this. She says she wasnt told that making reduced payments would 
affect her credit file.
Elderbridge suspended interest on Mrs Ms account in May 2019 and continues to accept 
reduced payments. Mrs M says shes still struggling financially and with her health. She says 
Elderbridge should have reduced the interest rate when she was widowed and when she 
had to stop working for health reasons. Shed like it to apply reduced interest retrospectively 
and remove arrears from her credit file. 
Our investigator said Elderbridge had treated Mrs M fairly. It agreed concessions when 
Mrs M told it she had difficulty making her monthly payments. It didnt know about her 
financial problems before this. After finding out more about her circumstances, it offered long 
term concessions which are to be reviewed annually, and suspended interest. 
The investigator said Elderbridge had told Mrs M that missed and reduced payments would 
affect her credit file. The information it recorded was accurate. Elderbridge paid £50 for not 
contacting Mrs M when it should have done, and the investigator said this was fair. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said while she accepts Elderbridge couldnt help her before 
September 2018, it should have frozen interest when she first contacted it to say she was 
struggling. She says the information on her credit file is affecting her credit rating and ability 
to release equity from her property. And she says Elderbridge treated her unfairly, didnt 
consider her health or circumstances and asked her questions that were derogatory and 
discriminatory. She said shed like a statement from Elderbridge showing what shes paid in 
interest and capital.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Elderbridge respond fairly when it was told about Mrs Ms financial difficulties?
Mrs Ms husband died in 2008, leaving her and two young children. Mrs M has a health 
condition and had to retire on health grounds in 2013. I sympathise with the distressing 
circumstances Mrs M has had to deal with. I must also take into account that Elderbridge 
didnt know about this  or Mrs Ms financial difficulties  until she contacted it at the end of 
August 2018. 
When Mrs M told Elderbridge she was struggling with her monthly repayments, it asked her 
for information, so it could assess what support to offer. It agreed temporary payment 
concessions to allow Mrs M time to seek independent advice.
Mrs M sought independent advice. She wanted to refinance the loan but found she wasnt 
able to do so. From what Mrs M has said, it seems unlikely her circumstances will improve. 
So, Elderbridge needed to discuss Mrs Ms circumstances with her in more detail, so it could 
consider how to support her. Elderbridge asked Mrs M for more information about 
affordability and her medical circumstances. I do understand that Mrs M found these 
discussions difficult, but I think it was fair for Elderbridge to ask for the information it needed 
to look into a long-term concession. After reviewing the information Mrs M provided, 
Elderbridge suspended interest on her account. And it agreed to reduced payments, which 
Mrs M had said were affordable. This was to be reviewed after a year. 
I think Elderbridge responded fairly when it was made aware of Mrs Ms financial difficulties. 
First, by asking for the information it needed to offer a temporary concession. Then, when it 
knew more about her circumstances and her plans, it asked for more information and offered 
long-term concessions. 
Was it fair for Elderbridge to record information on Mrs Ms credit file?
Elderbridge wrote to Mrs M in December 2018 to confirm the agreed arrangement for 
reduced monthly payments. The letter said the lower payments would mean Mrs Ms arrears 
would increase and this would be recorded with the credit reference agencies. It said this 
might make obtaining credit more expensive or more difficult. Elderbridges notes say it 
stressed consequences of arrears when it spoke to her on 2 October 2018. And it wrote to 
her in early September 2018 when she cancelled her direct debit, saying that her payment 
history is recorded with credit reference agencies so missing payments may make obtaining 
credit more difficult in the future. 
Elderbridge has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. The information on Mrs Ms credit file might make it more difficult for her to obtain 
credit. I think Elderbridge did explain this when it agreed the concessions. Mrs M hasnt been 
able to maintain monthly payments and her account is in arrears. This is recorded on her 
credit file. Elderbridge also recorded that an arrangement is in place. I dont think the 
information on Mrs Ms credit file is inaccurate or unfair, and so I dont think its reasonable to 
require Elderbridge to remove it. Should Elderbridge send annual statements?
Elderbridge doesnt send annual statements to borrowers. While its not required to do so, I 
think it needs to consider whether its treating Mrs M fairly. Mrs M is worried about her 
finances and losing her home. She wants to re-finance the loan, if possible. Receiving 
information about the loan could help her manage her finances and when seeking advice. 
This doesnt have to be in the form of annual statements. 
Elderbridge offered to send a statement to Mrs M in early April 2019 and she declined. It 
gave information to her about her account by phone. It sent statements to her in the past 
when she requested them (without charge). I dont think it acted unreasonably, and as Mrs M 
has been able to request the information she needs, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Elderbridge to send regular statements to her.
Has Elderbridge put right any problems with its service and administration of the loan?
Elderbridge didnt call Mrs M to confirm that a missing payment had been located. The 
payment didnt go astray due to an error by Elderbridge, but it knew Mrs M was worried 
about it. Elderbridge confirmed the payment had been applied to her account by letter about 
a month later, instead of phoning her as it said it would when it had been located.
And Elderbridge didnt pass information Mrs M provided in March 2019 to the relevant team 
promptly. This delayed it considering what options it could offer to support her.
Elderbridge paid £50 compensation. Ive taken all of the circumstances into account here  
including the effect on Mrs M of the errors and the level of support and communication 
offered by Elderbridge. Overall, I think this is fair.
Mrs M found some of the questions and information asked for by Elderbridge intrusive. I do 
understand this. But Elderbridge needed this information to consider what options it could 
offer to support her, in particular to offer long-term concessions. Ive looked at the 
information requested, and I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances.
What should happen now?
Mrs M asks that Elderbridge applies a lower interest rate retrospectively, from 2008 or 2013, 
or even late 2018. This would reduce her loan balance. I dont think I can fairly require 
Elderbridge to do this. 
When Mrs M took out the loan she agreed to repay it with the agreed interest. Mrs M says 
she didnt know the rate for some time, and considers it too high. But I dont think 
Elderbridge did anything wrong in applying interest to the loan.
Mrs Ms circumstances changed considerably after she took out the loan, and repaying by 
making the agreed monthly payments is no longer possible. I understand Mrs M is worried 
about how shell repay the debt. But I must be fair to both parties here. The loan is secured 
on Mrs Ms property with a second charge. This means Elderbridge can expect to be repaid 
the loan balance when the property is sold, provided theres enough equity in the property. In 
the meantime, Elderbridge has offered concessions, including suspending interest and 
accepting reduced payments, so that Mrs M can remain in the property without her debt 
increasing. I think this is fair. 
I think, when it became aware of Mrs Ms difficulties, Elderbridge responded fairly. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require it to reduce Mrs Ms loan balance, remove information 
from her credit files or pay further compensation.  Mrs M says shes been offered help with legal fees to take the matter to court. If she doesnt 
accept my decision, she will be free to raise the matter in a court if she chooses to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman