DRN-3967968
The complaint
Mr S complains about the problems he had with the supply and fitting of a kitchen he 
financed with Ikano Bank AB (Publ). His complaint is brought against Ikano under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr S wife brings the complaint on his behalf (for ease of refence Ill refer to her comments 
as Mr S).
What happened
In March 2020 Mr S took out a fixed sum loan with Ikano to fund the purchase and 
installation of a kitchen. The cash price was £6055.62, Mr S paid a £10 deposit and agreed 
to make 35 monthly instalments of £167.94. He says he experienced the following issues;
He was charged for items returned and services he didnt receive 
the 30% discount offer on kitchen cupboards and the installation costs were not 
applied to reduce the price
the worktops were not the ones ordered and need replacing. There is also a gap left 
between the housing unit and the wall and the worktops were not joined properly
the account was unfairly defaulted and subsequently the agreement was terminated 
Ikano took too long to provide an outcome on the section 75 claim
Mr S was unable to resolve his concerns with the supplier, so he contacted Ikano in August 
2020 to raise a section 75 dispute. It liaised with the supplier and in September 2021, it said 
the supplier had confirmed remedial works were completed and a credit of £714 for the 
returned items had now been applied to his account. It apologised for the time taken to 
provide an outcome, declined the section 75 claim and advised Mr S that his repayments 
would restart in October 2021.
Mr S complained to Ikano, he was unhappy that it hadnt upheld his claim. And said the 
supplier didnt send anyone back to remedy the installation issues. Mr S stopped making 
payments on his account and in December 2021 Ikano defaulted the account and later 
terminated the agreement. Ikano didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint. He 
didnt think it was clear from the paperwork that Mr S had been charged for additional 
services not supplied. And he didnt think there was sufficient evidence of a breach of 
contract by the supplier, so didnt think Ikano had made a mistake when it defaulted and 
terminated Mr S account.
Mr S disagreed; the case was passed to me for a final decision. We asked Mr S to provide 
photos of the outstanding installation issues, he provided some photos of the kitchen. We 
sent the photos to Ikano for comment, and I also let Ikano know that I thought it should pay 
Mr S £500 compensation to reflect the delay in handling his section 75 claim, it hasnt 
responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our 
informal, free service as an alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
This case is about a fixed sum loan that Mr S took out with Ikano, which is a regulated 
agreement. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr S complaint.
Mr S is very unhappy with the customer services received from the supplier and its lack of 
response. However, Im unable to look at the level of service received from the supplier. In 
looking at this complaint, Im considering Ikanos actions and whether it needs to do anything 
further to resolve Mr S complaint.
I am required to determine this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take account of relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The relevant legislation here is section 75 of the CCA, which provides protection for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. This provides protection for consumers 
for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75, subject to certain criteria, 
consumers who use a fixed sum loan to pay for goods and services, have an equal claim 
against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
This means that Mr S can claim against Ikano  the creditor  for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he couldve claimed against the supplier. 
So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Has Mr S been charged for goods and services he didnt receive?
 
Mr S says that he was refunded £714 for three items returned in July 2020. On the till receipt 
I can see Mr S was charged for two taps at £28 (total £56), microwave (£279) and an oven 
(£379). The total cost of the items is £714. So, Im satisfied Mr S was correctly refunded for 
the returned goods. 
Mr S says that he was charged for the following services which he didnt receive;
£100 electrical test certificate
£100 gas safety certificate
£108.33 for the installation of pipes/taps
£25 for fitting a dishwasher door, Mr S doesnt have a dishwasher. 
Mr S has provided an installation price quote (order ending 300) which details the services to 
be completed, which includes the above services, the total quote is for £1980.59. However, 
Mr S has also provided a till receipt that shows Mr S was only charged £1386.42 for the 
kitchen installation, which matches the amount noted on the order installation (order ending 467), however neither the till receipt nor the order installation breakdown what installation 
services were being charged for. In addition, Mr S has provided a page of a document which 
was signed by the fitter in July 2020, which is marked with an X to indicate that no gas or 
electrical services were carried out.
 
So, whilst the quotation indicates Mr S was provided a quote for these services, this is an 
only an estimate and I note there is no reference to the installation quotation order number 
on the till receipt. In addition, the till receipt and order installation documents show Mr S was 
charged significantly less than the price indicated on the quote. So, I dont think Mr S has 
provided sufficient evidence to show he was charged for the additional services. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr S has been unable to get a copy of a breakdown for the billed installation 
services from the supplier, I can only consider the evidence provided. And based on what 
Ive seen Im not persuaded Mr S was charged for the additional services.
30% discount 
Mr S says the sales agent offered 30% discount on the kitchen cupboards and the 
installation costs, but this wasnt applied. As Im unable to confirm what Mr S was told about 
the discounts, Ive looked at the available documentation. 
The only reference to a discount is on the order quotation, which notes the discount is valid 
until 14 March 2019, but Mr S placed his order in March 2020. Mr S says this must be a 
typo, but Ive not seen any other evidence to support that a 30% discount should have been 
applied. In the circumstances I cant fairly say there was a misrepresentation by the supplier 
or a breach of contract with respect to the discount.
Worktop and installation issues
Under the Consumer Rights Act (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts that 
goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described. It also 
says traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
Ikano says the supplier advised that it had returned to resolve the worktop issues. Mr S says 
only the issue with the sink worktop was resolved and the other issues were not remedied. 
Mr S says he ordered worktops to be butt and scribed, but he was supplied with the wrong 
worktops, which meant he couldnt have the butt and scribe joints as he had ordered. Mr S 
has provided a copy of an email from the supplier which says, I am looking into your case 
regarding your worktops, which he says confirms the issue with the worktops. Mr S says the 
fitter spoke to the supplier on the phone and they agreed to replace the worktops, but they 
didnt return to do this.
Ive looked at all the documentation to see what was ordered, the only mention to the 
worktop finish is in the installation price quote which says, install worktop, standard butt 
joints only. Ive not seen any reference to Mr S ordering worktops that could be butt and 
scribed, or any confirmation from the supplier to confirm there was a mix up with the 
worktops, I cant fairly say there has been a breach of contract here. So, I dont have any 
grounds to ask Ikano to refund the cost of the worktops and cover the costs of installing new 
ones.
Mr S says that because the worktops had to be pushed together, rather than butt and 
scribed, will mean the joints will eventually blow out, due to water seepage near the sink, he 
doesnt think they are fit for purpose. But I dont think the problem is evident in the photos 
provided and Mr S hasnt provided any corroborating evidence to confirm the issue with the 
way the worktops are joined. So, I cant fairly say this amounts to a breach of contract.Mr S says he has been left with an unsightly gap between the oven/microwave housing unit 
and the wall. And I can see from the photo provided there appears to be a small space 
between a unit and a wall, however from the image, it isnt entirely clear whether is due to 
the kitchens dimensions or whether the space could have been avoided or filled by the 
fitters. So, based on what Ive seen I dont think there is sufficient evidence that the gap was 
caused by a poor fitting service.
I appreciate that Mr S feels Ikano could have done more to get evidence from the supplier, 
but it isnt required to do this. The burden here is on Mr S to evidence his section 75 claim 
and having carefully considered all that he has said and produced, Im not persuaded there 
is enough evidence available to sufficiently establish that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me, based on 
the current evidence to direct Ikano to pay for the cost of new worktops and pay for them to 
be installed. 
Mr S may wish to arrange for an independent inspection of the kitchen, to confirm the 
installation issues and get a quote to carry out the repairs, for Ikanos consideration, but 
based on the current evidence he has provided in support of his claim I cant fairly say the 
kitchen isnt of satisfactory quality or that the installation service wasnt carried out with 
reasonable care.
Was it fair for Ikano to default and terminate the agreement?
Mr S feels IKano treated him unfairly when it defaulted his account and subsequently 
terminated his agreement. When Mr S contacted Ikano in August 2020 about the issues with 
the kitchen, it agreed to put his account on hold, whilst it looked into his section 75 claim. On 
15 September 2021 Ikano wrote to Mr S to explain that it had declined his section 75 claim 
and noted that payments would restart in October 2021.
Unhappy with Ikanos response, Mr S complained to it and informed it that he wouldnt be 
making further payments, until the issues were resolved. He is unhappy that IKano refused 
to place his account back on hold. IKano had investigated Mr S claim and provided a letter 
declining the section 75 claim. Whilst I appreciate that Mr S had raised a complaint about the 
outcome of his section 75 claim, there wasnt any obligation for Ikano to place the account 
on hold again. 
The terms of Mr S finance agreement with Ikano explain that;
9. Default We may demand repayment of the full amount you owe us if ; you fail to pay on 
its due date any amount payable under this agreement...
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidelines on when defaults should 
be recorded. They say a default should be recorded when an account is three months or 
more in arrears. Mr S was three months in arrears when Ikano issued a default notice on 9 
December 2021. A default notice is a statutory notice, required under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. Its purpose is to ensure consumers like Mr S is fully aware of the consequences of 
not making payments under the agreement. The notice informed Mr S that he was required 
to pay the full arrears of £503.82 and that if he failed to do this by 30 December 2021, it 
would terminate the agreement.  Mr S didnt make the required payment to clear the arrears.
Mr S requested Ikano hold off defaulting the account on 21 December 2021. I appreciate Mr 
S feels Ikano shouldnt have progressed with defaulting the account, because he had 
requested it didnt, but there was no obligation on it to do this and as Mr S failed to comply 
with the default notice, I dont think it made a mistake when it defaulted the account. Ikano subsequently terminated Mr S agreement. Im satisfied that it gave Mr S the required 
notice that it would terminate his account, he didnt make the required arrears payment, so 
he was in breach of the agreement, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Ikano to 
terminate Mr S agreement.
Mr S also complains that he was sent a letter on 6 January 2022 which confirmed a default 
had been recorded on his credit file. The letter said he wouldnt receive any further 
statements or reminders for payment from Ikano, but the account may be sold to a debt 
purchaser who would pursue the debt. However, on 9 January 2022 he received a notice of 
a missed payment fee. I can understand why the timing of the letters may have caused Mr S 
some confusion, but Im satisfied Ikano were required to send notice of the missed payment 
fee for the previous month, which would have been sent automatically. 
Mr S has indicated that he is currently facing some financial difficulties, Id expect Ikano to 
consider his current financial situation and treat him with appropriate forbearance when 
considering an affordable payment plan to clear any amounts outstanding under the 
agreement. I think this is fair and wont be asking it to do anymore, with respect to this part of 
the complaint.
Customer services
Mr S contacted Ikano in August 2020 about the issues he was having with the kitchen. It 
took it over a year to provide an answer on Mr S dispute in September 2021. Whilst there 
are no timescales for section 75 claims, I do think it took longer than necessary. And whilst I 
appreciate that Ikano was liaising with the supplier and they werent always forthcoming with 
information, I do think that Ikano could have reached the same outcome sooner, based on 
the evidence provided by Mr S. 
Ikano has already apologised for the delay in its letter in September 2021.  And I accept that 
it would have been stressful for Mr S to have to wait so long for an answer on his section 75 
claim. Im sorry to hear about Mr S and his wifes health problems and he has told us about 
how this delay has impacted their health. In the circumstances, I think Ikano should make a 
compensation payment of £500 to Mr S to reflect this. 
I think it would be helpful if I clarify that Im not awarding any compensation for the stress 
caused by the kitchen issues Mr S has highlighted, as I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to show that this is a result of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. So, I cant hold Ikano responsible for that.
Mr S raised a complaint about the handling of his section 75 dispute on 22 December 2021, I 
can see Ikano provided its final response within the eight-week timescale, so Im satisfied it 
didnt make a mistake with this.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and direct Ikano Bank AB (Publ) to Mr S 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman