DRN-3203608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on their
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
In summary, the CMC says they were advised to take too much risk.
What happened
In mid-November 2021, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below 
and forms a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to
safely say that Lloyds behaved unreasonably.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very
much recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I
hope Mr and Mrs H wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
Im satisfied that all the reasonable points that could be made about this investment have
been made by the parties. The key issue for me to consider is whether the medium risk
rendered the recommendation unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H.
I understand that in 1995, Mr and Mrs H were looking to invest £40,000 over the medium
term, and that various levels of risk were discussed. I dont think that theres any dispute that
they were recorded as low to medium risk investors for the purposes of (potentially)
investing the £40,000.
I also dont think theres any dispute that they were willing to take a risk with their money,
and that they had some capacity to replace loss. Im mindful they were in their 50s, in
permanent employment, and with a small outstanding mortgage, so were in a reasonable
position to invest in the medium term.
However, the above notwithstanding, based on what Lloyds says it seems to me that Mr and
Mrs H wanted to take a higher risk with a portion of their money. In my opinion, just because
they were first time investors, doesnt mean that they werent entitled to take a greater risk, if
thats what they wanted to do. In the circumstances an adviser can only advise  which is
what theyre paid to do  and not insist that customers take a particular course of action.
I note it was recorded that despite the adviser stating that the medium risk would be a
variation on their identified risk level, Mr and Mrs H were happy to accept this higher risk. I
note that according to Lloyds they were asked why they wanted to take a greater risk with a
portion of their funds, and they answered that it was because the other portion of their
money would be invested in a capital guaranteed product. Whether or not Mr and Mrs H
went on to make another investment, Im satisfied that they were aware  for the purposes of
the PEP  they were taking a greater risk than what had been deemed suitable for them.
Incidentally, I note that if Mr and Mrs H didnt invest the additional £16,000 and left it on
deposit  as they appear to have done  this portion of their funds wouldve been subject to
no risk at all. Therefore, with £16,000 left on deposit (with no risk) and £24,000 invested in
the PEP (with a medium risk), overall it is arguable they were taking a low to medium risk
with the £40,000 that they initially wanted to invest.
In any case, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded the 1995 advice
to invest £12,000 each into a PEP was unsuitable, given that it was in line with what Mr and
Mrs H wanted. In other words, despite what the CMC says, in this instance and on balance,
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H  for the purposes of the PEP  were willing to take a greater
risk, and that it was generally their decision to do so.
I note in a subsequent suitability letter  from April 1995 in relation to the PEP top up  it
stated:
As with our previous investment, we are aware of all charges, we are also aware that as per
our previous PEP choice, these PEPs are of a Medium Risk being higher than our overall
attitude to risk of Low to Medium. However as before we feel happy to accept a medium risk
in the area of PEPs.
Im aware that Mr H went on to invest a further £6,000 into the FTSE 100 Fund and Mrs H
went on to invest another £6,000 into the Extra Income Fund. This of itself doesnt suggest
that Mr and Mrs H had any issues or concerns regarding their earlier decision to take a
greater risk.
I note that notwithstanding some of the concerns raised by the investigator about the funds,
Lloyds has made clear that the Extra Income and Balanced Funds did have an element of
fixed interest securities but didnt have the element of the more volatile overseas shares. In
any case, as the investigator quite rightly points out, its not for us to risk rate the funds.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs H each encashed a PEP in 2000 and retained the others until
2013  when they encashed it with substantial gains  much longer than the recommended
minimum five years. This doesnt suggest that they had any issues with it. I also note they
didnt raise any concerns during the investment period despite fluctuations in their
investment.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different
conclusion to investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask the
business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr and Mrs H what they want.
Lloyds responded and said it had no further points to add. The CMC also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. It only said: I can 
confirm that Mr and Mrs H (name anonymised) do not accept the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new submissions, my decision not to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, I still cant safely say that Lloyds behaved unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman