DRN-3225503
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly retained his 
premium when his motor policy was cancelled.
What happened
Mr Ks policy automatically renewed, which he said he didnt know would happen. When he 
explained the car belonged to his son and was now insured elsewhere, Advantage kept the 
premium for time it decided he was on risk for, instead of refunding that premium amount to 
Mr K. 
Originally Mr K funded this policy in May 2020 for his sons car, as he was a named driver on 
it and his son was living away at the time. At the time the policy ended in May 2021, his son 
was back and insured the car himself with a different insurer. Mr K cancelled his direct debit 
but before that went through, Advantage had taken a premium instalment, given the policy 
automatically renewed. Mr K then told the broker that the policy needed to be cancelled, 
which it was in June 2021. However, he was charged cancellation fee and the time on risk 
until the policy was cancelled. Mr K was charged a total of £173.05 of which £65.00 were 
broker fees for the cancellation and £108.05 was the time on risk charge charged by 
Advantage.
Mr K said he was no longer a named driver on his sons car and had no access to the car 
either, since his son now lived some distance away. So, he thought both the cancellation fee 
and the time on risk should be refunded to him. The broker cancellation fees were dealt with 
under another complaint separately. This complaint merely concerns the time on risk 
premium amount which was retained by Advantage. 
As Advantage wouldnt refund this, Mr K brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
thought it was fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint, that 
Advantage should refund Mr K the time on risk amount. Advantage never responded to the 
investigators view, so Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its clear that the policy documents explained this policy would renew automatically and that 
simply Mr K hadnt realised that. So, in effect there was nothing wrong in the policy renewing 
initially.
However, when Mr K explained to the broker and Advantage what had happened and that in 
fact this car was insured elsewhere by his son once this policy expired in May 2021, that 
essentially means there was no time on risk which needed to be covered by Advantage. 
Simply because it was never on risk once the policy expired, as Mr Ks son had a policy 
elsewhere for this car. Further Mr K wasnt a named driver on this new policy either and he 
had no access to the car, so he wasnt driving it anymore. 
On that basis, I consider it fair and reasonable given the very particular circumstances of this 
complaint, that Advantage should now refund the time on risk premium amount of £108.05 
back to Mr K with interest.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to the following:
Refund Mr K the amount of the premium for the time on risk which I understand to be 
£108.05.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr K explained the matter to 
Advantage and/or the broker (whichever is earlier) to the date it refunds him.  If 
income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr K for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman