DRN-4425427
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  trading as MG Motor Financial 
Services (Santander)  dealt with her complaint about the quality of a car.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Santander in order 
to acquire a new car. The car cost £33,529. Mrs W made an advance payment of £4,500 
and was due to make 48 payments of £468.53, followed by a final repayment of £13,230.
Within a few days of collecting the car, Mrs W reported to the dealer that the sat nav didnt 
work. She then said the radio stopped working, the media system terminated calls and that 
the car play system didnt work. The dealer saw the car in November 2022 to try to rectify 
the issues, but Mrs W said within five minutes of getting the car back she noted the sat nav 
still didnt function.
Mrs W then says she explained to the dealer in December 2022 that the sat nav, car play 
and battery heating werent working. She later noted the car had issues selecting gear. The 
car was returned again to the dealer in January 2023. Mrs W got the car back the next day.
In February 2023 Mrs W returned the car to the dealer and told it she wanted to reject it, as 
she said it still had various faults. She set these out in a letter to the dealer:
car play - has never worked and is still not working
Sat Nav - never worked from collection
Radio / music stopped working. Silent driving experience
Bluetooth synchronisation drops in and out frequently
Battery Heating would not work from App
Car would not turn off when parked and stationary
eSOS warning light intermittently displays
Main car screen freezes - inability to press any function button
When powered off main screen stays on frozen on a blank screen
ACC System unavailable error displays
Car would not engage drive or reverse - would only sit in neutral
Camera system freezes and glitches to a black and white rolling screen
Telephone system will not terminate calls from multi function steering wheel
Radio has to be turned on manually every time you enter the vehicle
Emergency stop - car places itself into emergency stops with no reason or proximity 
to other vehicles
In March 2023 the dealer got in touch with Mrs W. It said, in summary, that the cars 
manufacturer said she didnt have the right to reject the car as it functioned in getting her to 
A to B and the issues Mrs W had were with convenience items.
Mrs W complained to Santander and at the end of March 2023 it issued its final response. 
This said, in summary, that Mrs W didnt have a right to reject the car. It said the dealer had 
the right to repair it, and the issues were not proportionate for a rejection request. It also 
said it could not enforce a rejection decision on the dealership as the manufacturer didnt 
think she had a right to reject it. Santander explained it had cancelled the independent 
inspection of the car as Mrs W was unhappy to wait for it. But it did offer £250 to apologise 
for delays.
Mrs W referred the complaint to our service. She reiterated her complaint points shed raised 
to the dealer and Santander. She also said this situation had a significant impact on her, as 
shed had to borrow cars from friends and relatives, and had at times been left without 
transport for her family.
An investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
thought the car had faults with it. He said as repairs had been attempted but seemed to have 
failed, Mrs W should have a right to reject the car. He said the agreement should be 
cancelled, the deposit and all repayments returned to her and an additional £100 
compensation paid, bringing the total to £350.
Mrs W accepted the opinion.
Santander didnt accept the view. It forwarded on a response from the dealer. This 
explained, in summary, that the dealer had seen the car on more than one occasion and 
attempted to put issues right but said these were not faults. It said issues couldve been 
caused by third party devices. It said when the car was returned in February 2023 it was only 
able to replicate the SOS symptom. The dealer said it had not attempted to repair the car.
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. He said, in summary, that the dealer had 
attempted to repair the car and this had failed. So he said Mrs W had the right to reject it.
Santander didnt respond and so the case was passed for an Ombudsmans decision. 
Another investigator then reviewed the case and issued another view. This explained that 
due to the nature of the finance agreement, Santander shouldve considered this complaint 
as a claim under Section 75A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75A). They went on to 
say they thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality, for much the same reasons the 
previous investigator explained.
But, they did say Santander should do something slightly different to put things right. They 
said Mrs W should be allowed to reject the car and that Santander should refund the deposit, 
reimburse 10% of repayments made to 6 February 2023 and refund all repayments made 
from 6 February 2023.
Santander responded and explained it still thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mrs W got in touch and said she wasnt happy with the compensation changing. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I should firstly point out that I may not comment on every individual piece of evidence nor 
every point raised. I want to reassure Mrs W and Santander that this doesnt mean I havent 
fully considered everything. While Ive reviewed all of the information on the case, Ill focus 
on what I think are the key facts and the crux of Mrs Ws complaint. This reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
I think its worth explaining the position with the legislation mentioned by our two 
investigators on this case, as there was some confusion here. When considering whats fair 
and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance and regulations.
In this case, S75A and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) are relevant.
Having reviewed things, Im satisfied Mrs W had a valid claim against Santander under 
S75A. Ill explain why. S75A says:
If the debtor under a linked credit agreement has a claim against the supplier in respect of a 
breach of contract the debtor may pursue that claim against the creditor where any of the 
conditions in subsection (2) are met.
Subsection (2) goes on to explain that one of the conditions mentioned is:
that the debtor has taken reasonable steps to pursue his claim against the supplier but has 
not obtained satisfaction for his claim
Here, Im satisfied that for Mrs W this condition has been met. I say this as it was clear from 
texts and emails that Mrs W attempted to resolve this situation with the dealer, but couldnt.
S75A goes on to explain:
In this section linked credit agreement means a regulated consumer credit agreement 
which serves exclusively to finance an agreement for the supply of specific goods or the 
provision of a specific service and where 
the specific goods or provision of a specific service are explicitly specified in the credit 
agreement
Looking at the credit agreement, Im satisfied this is regulated. And the specific details of the 
car Mrs W acquired are set out on the credit agreement. 
S75A then goes on to explain it applies where the cash value of the goods is between 
£30,000.01 and £60,259.99. The cash price of the car Mrs W acquired was £33,529, so Im 
satisfied it meets the financial limits set out.
Its important to note here that Mrs W didnt specifically set out she wanted to raise a claim 
under S75A. Nor did Santander respond directly to this. But, I am satisfied by raising the 
complaint she did, Santander shouldve considered this. Im also satisfied its clear from its 
correspondence that Santander effectively did decline Mrs Ws claim under S75A. So, what I 
need to consider here is whether Santander was right to do so.
The CRA is also relevant to this complaint. This implied a term into the contract for the 
supply of the goods that they should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account any relevant factors. I would consider 
relevant factors here to be, amongst others, the cars age, price and mileage.
So, here, I need to consider that the car Mrs W got was brand new and cost over £33,000. I 
think a relevant person would expect it to be in mint condition, to be free of even minor faults 
and would expect trouble free motoring for a long time.
If the car supplied was not of satisfactory quality, I would consider this to be a breach of 
contract, and so as above, something Mrs W would have the right to pursue Santander for 
under S75A.
Was there a fault with the car?
Im not going to list everything here, but Mrs W has provided quite a lot of evidence to back 
up what she told the dealer, Santander and our service about the faults with the car. This 
included photos and videos. These have shown:
Various warning lights on the dash, the car appearing to not respond to the stop/start button, 
the gear selector appearing to not work, channels apparently missing from the radio, the 
infotainment not connecting to a phone and the infotainment being unresponsive to inputs.
Ive also seen an email from the dealer where they explain:
since then have been responding to their questions which have revolved around the items 
we have been able to confirm the fault on.
Currently, we have been asked to update various control units, of which we are having 
trouble with the configuration on one (emphasis added by myself).
Thinking about this, along with Mrs Ws testimony and how consistent she was when 
complaining about the specific issues, Im satisfied the car had various faults with the 
infotainment system. Im satisfied it had intermittent faults where it wouldnt allow drive or 
reverse to be selected. And Im satisfied it also had an intermittent fault with the SOS 
system.
Given how quickly these faults appeared after Mrs W got the car, Im satisfied they were 
present or developing at the point of supply.
I realise this doesnt address all of the faults Mrs W raised with the car. Theres something of 
a lack of evidence with these points. But, I dont need to make any findings on these other 
areas. Thats because whatever I decided here wouldnt change the outcome I reached on 
the complaint, nor what I think would be reasonable to put things right. 
Did these faults mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality?
Firstly, its important to be clear that I disagree, in the strongest terms, with the argument put 
forward by the manufacturer that because the car was drivable this meant it was of 
satisfactory quality. And it was very disappointing to see Santander being led by this. The 
CRA specifically states freedom from minor defects should be considered as part of 
satisfactory quality in appropriate cases. And I would very much consider this to be 
reasonable when thinking about a brand new car.
I should also say that I dont think the faults Mrs W had would be considered as minor either 
way. Considering everything here, I think its clear a reasonable person would not consider the car 
to have been of satisfactory quality. It follows that as above, this means there was a breach 
of contract and so Santander need to remedy this under S75A.
Putting things right
Mrs W said she wanted to reject the car. Santander and the dealer explained that they 
believed Mrs W didnt have this right.
The CRA explains Mrs W would have the final right to reject the car if it was of unsatisfactory 
quality and:
after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not conform to the contract
The dealer confirmed they saw the car in November 2022. It said we confirmed the issues 
(not vehicle faults) and carried out a 1st process step of 12v battery disconnection and reset 
of system to then retest 
It then confirmed again it saw the car in January 2023, where it was it touch with the 
manufacturers technical department and were waiting a response. It then said it did all the 
updates available.
Im satisfied both of these instances were clearly attempts at repairs. And I think its most 
likely the issues were not put right. It follows I do not accept Santanders argument that any 
further repairs by the dealer should now be seen as the first attempt under the CRA.
So, this means Im satisfied Mrs W had the final right to reject the car under the CRA when 
she asked to. Given it was then left at the dealer, its fair and reasonable that she still has 
this right.
Ive also considered the use of the car Mrs W had. Between acquiring it and when she left it 
at the dealer, Mrs W did use the car.
But, Im satisfied due to the faults she had with it that it wasnt performing as it should. This 
means the use of the car was impaired. I do think Mrs W should pay for the use of the car 
she had, but I dont think Santander should retain the full repayments for this period. I agree 
with our investigator that Mrs W should be reimbursed 10% of the monthly repayments from 
the time she got the car until the time it was left at the dealer.
Mrs W didnt have use of the car from 6 February 2023. So all repayments from this point 
should be reimbursed. 
Id like to briefly add a note here about distress and inconvenience. Our first investigator 
recommended Mrs W be paid compensation for this. And our second investigator didnt. I 
understand Mrs W was unhappy with this.
I think its quite clear this situation has caused Mrs W significant distress. And I was sorry to 
read about the impact this has had on her and her family. But, Im specifically considering 
Santanders responsibilities under S75A here. 
I can only make an award for distress and inconvenience caused by what I think Santander 
did wrong. Here, I dont think it reached the right outcome on Mrs Ws claim. But, Im 
satisfied the distress and inconvenience was caused by Mrs W being supplied with a car that 
had faults with it  not by how Santander handled her claim under S75A. So, Santander 
dont need to pay Mrs W anything additional for the distress caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  
trading as MG Motor Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs W
Reimburse Mrs Ws deposit of £4,500*
Reimburse 10% of all repayments made to the agreement until 6 February 2023*
Reimburse all repayments made to the agreement from 6 February 2023*
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mrs Ws credit file
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman