DRN-3569246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about their let property insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited, 
in respect of a claim they made to it regarding malicious damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D own a property which they let out. In February 2020 the tenant of their 
property stopped paying them rent. Due to the pandemic theyve said they were unable to 
evict the tenant.
In October 2020 they spoke to Fairmead regarding potential damage which they understood 
had occurred at the property. They said theyd been in touch with the police who were 
logging all the criminal damage which was occurring. They said the tenant had changed the 
locks and was now slowly destroying their property. Farimead said that malicious damage 
caused by tenants wasnt covered.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs D told Fairmead that the tenant had now left. And that there was 
considerable water damage. Also that some internal doors and the fridge had been stolen. 
Fairmead felt it should investigate to see if there was any damage present which might be 
covered by the policy. Fairmeads loss adjuster concluded there was no water damage. It 
also said the policy wording confirms that this policy does not cover.theft and malicious 
damage by tenants. 
Mr and Mrs D accepted there was no water damage. But they felt the property had likely 
been vandalised by persons unknown rather than their tenant. So they fixed the property 
themselves, at a cost of around £25,000 and complained to us. They provided an email from 
the police which confirmed that whilst the tenant had been interviewed, the police hadnt and 
werent going to take any action against them. 
Our investigator, having noted the police email, felt that was sufficient to show Fairmead 
couldnt reasonably rely on the policy exclusion for the tenant having caused the damage to 
decline the claim. He said Fairmead should reconsider the claim against the remaining terms 
of the policy.
Mr and Mrs D said they were happy with that. Fairmead said it disagreed with the outcome. 
Fairmead said that what the police had found shouldnt necessarily inform the reasonable 
outcome under the policy. It said that considering the history of the tenancy, it was likely that 
damage occurred during the tenancy. As Fairmead disagreed with what our investigator had 
said, the complaint was passed for review by an ombudsman.
I reviewed the complaint. I felt it shouldnt be upheld. I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my views to both parties.
No insurance policy covers everything. The policy Mr and Mrs D had, like many let property 
policies on the market, doesnt offer cover for malicious damage or theft perpetrated by the 
tenant. Fairmead believes that here, the tenant caused the damage and stole items. 
Mr and Mrs D think that is not the case. So if I am to say that Fairmead was wrong to decline 
the claim, Id have to be satisfied that the damage and theft was most likely caused by 
another party. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs D, Im not.
There is first of all a simple issue of time and probability. The tenant was in the property from 
February 2020 without paying rent. He was certainly still there in late 2020 because 
Mr and Mrs D were still telling Fairmead they couldnt get access to the property at that time. 
It was in March 2021 when they told Fairmead he had now left. And, at the same time, they 
told Fairmead theyd found a lot of damage. So it isnt entirely clear how long the tenant had 
been absent before Mr and Mrs D gained access to the house  but it seems likely that it 
wasnt very long. I think its fair to say that the tenant was at the property for far longer than it 
was vacant. 
Ive then considered the photos. They show a house that is being/has recently been lived in. 
Lived in messily  but there are still personal belongings and accessories around, including 
bedding on the bed. Theres no sign of graffiti or other signs that squatters might have been 
using the premises. And the damage that is present doesnt look like the type done in the 
course of random vandalism.
In respect of the damage I can see in the photos, I also bear in mind that when 
Mr and Mrs D were speaking to Fairmead in October 2020 they told it the tenant was 
progressively destroying the house. Specific reference is made in Fairmeads notes to 
damage which is clear in the photos (taken later)  the tenant reportedly having pulled a 
ceiling down, pulled plaster off the walls and taken off the back door (the back door is secure 
and boarded up in the photos). The notes also refer more generally to Mrs D advising of 
numerous malicious acts by the tenant and that, when reporting in March 2021 that the 
tenant had left, Mr D said he was unsure what damage had been caused when.
I also understand that the tenant was convicted of assaulting Mrs D and was alleged to have 
assaulted a contractor of theirs. It was March 2020 when Mr and Mrs D had begun to try and 
evict the tenant  but they were unable to do so due to the pandemic. However, they did, at 
some time during 2020, secure court judgments against the tenant for non-payment of rent. 
And Im also aware that the tenant had made a negative report against Mr and Mrs D to the 
council (which I believe the council dismissed). So I think it is fair to say that the relationship 
between the parties was an acrimonious one and that its likely that the tenant bore them a 
fair degree of ill will.
Against that backdrop I have seen only one piece of evidence potentially in favour of 
someone other than the tenant doing this damage and taking items from the house. That is 
the detail of the police investigation. I understand that the police considered prosecuting the 
tenant for criminal damage of the property, Im not sure if theft of items was included in that. 
In any event the police ultimately didnt pursue action against the tenant. In an email to 
Mr and Mrs D the police said they had interviewed the tenant, who had denied responsibility 
and the police had found no evidence against them. So the police concluded that the 
damage had been caused by persons unknown. I can see why Mr and Mrs D think that means that Fairmeads view that the tenant most 
likely did the damage and stole the items is unfair and unreasonable. However, theres an 
inherent difficulty with this one piece of evidence seemingly in Mr and Mrs Ds favour. That is 
that the negative findings of the police cant reasonably be used to inform a decision about 
what most likely happened  because the police were working to more stringent evidence 
requirements. The police, when investigating criminal activity, cant just look at what is most 
likely to have happened. They have to go a step further and think about what can be shown 
to have happened almost certainly (beyond reasonable doubt). And when the police cant 
show that something almost certainly happened, that still leaves what is most likely to have 
happened open for consideration. Because the police, working to the higher standard, 
havent thought about or decided upon what the available evidence shows is most likely to 
have happened. 
In short, in the circumstances here, what the police found (or didnt find), cant inform my 
conclusion on the complaint. And given the details Ive set out above  the timing of the 
tenant being in the property, the condition the property was found in, the detail of damage 
given during the tenants occupation and the likely ill will of the tenant to Mr and Mrs D  
I think its most likely that the tenant caused malicious damage and stole items from the 
property. As such, and in light of what the policy in question covers, I think Fairmeads 
decline of Mr and Mrs Ds claim was fair and reasonable.
Fairmead said it accepted my findings. It said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs D said they felt my findings contradicted those made previously by our 
investigator. They said they were surprised the escape of water was mentioned again 
when that issue is not in dispute. Mr and Mrs D explained that their solicitor had found it very 
strange that the statement of the police officer had been ignored  that a judge in a court 
would be hard pressed to ignore a police officers statement. They said that, to be 
reasonable, there should be some proposal for settlement against their total outlay of 
£26,000. And to resolve this theyll offer to accept from Fairmead, in full and final settlement 
of the claim, 25% of their outlay, £6,500. But they are considering taking legal proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings did and do differ from the view issued by our investigator. This service operates 
a two-stage process which allows the initial findings set out by the investigator to be 
reviewed. And the reviewing ombudsman is not bound to reach the same view as the 
investigator. When a different view is reached a provisional decision is issued to inform both 
parties of the change and give them chance to respond, which is what I did here.  
Im sure Mr and Mrs D will note that I only spoke of the escape of water in my background 
section. It was important to reference it for context and to show it wasnt part of the complaint 
I was considering. Indeed, my last comment made in respect of the escape of water claim 
was that Mr and Mrs D had accepted Fairmeads position on that issue. And I explained that 
the complaint which then arose, and which was the subject of my decision, was about 
Fairmeads view on the malicious damage claim. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor may have a different view about what weight 
should be applied to the relevant evidence. But I can assure Mr and Mrs D that I did not 
ignore what the police officer had said. Rather, in my provisional findings, I explained why 
what the police officer had said couldnt reasonably inform what decision I reached. I can make awards against an insurer based on what is fair and reasonable. But for me to 
make an award, I have to first be satisfied that the insurer failed its policyholder in some way 
that warrants me requiring it to take some action or make some payment. Here I think 
Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably  so it didnt, in my view, fail Mr and Mrs D. Therefore, 
whilst I can understand that Mr and Mr D think that a reasonable settlement of at least part of 
their outlay is due to them, that isnt something I can fairly require Fairmead to pay. 
I note Mr and Mrs D state they are considering legal proceedings. Im also conscious that 
they didnt agree with my provisional findings, which have not changed. As such they may 
wish to take legal advice before deciding whether or not to accept my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman