DRN-4417736
The complaint 
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer 
his defined benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension. 
A different firm gave the original advice, but Aviva has since become responsible for 
complaints arising from it. So, Ill refer to Aviva throughout this decision.
Mr J has appointed professional representatives to help him bring this complaint. However, 
for ease of reading, most comments and actions will be noted as Mr Js. 
 What happened
Mr J worked for a former employer, B, for almost five years during the 1980s and was a 
member of its DB pension scheme. Membership of the DB scheme entitled Mr J to a 
guaranteed pension income at age 60 as well as inflationary increases. 
In early 1993, Mr J took pension advice from Aviva about transferring out of the DB scheme.   
According to the fact find completed at the time, he was looking to reinvest his frozen 
pension by moving it into a personal pension. He would have been around age 38 at the 
time of the advice. Aviva recorded various details about Mr J and his personal circumstances 
along with the benefits hed have been entitled to from the DB scheme. 
The adviser recommended that Mr J transfer his DB pension to one of its pensions. Mr J 
accepted the advisers recommendation in March 1993 and transferred his DB pension. 
Around November 1997, Mr J wrote to Aviva to request documents and a transfer value 
concerning his pension. He said his intention was to transfer the pension in the near future, 
but hed misplaced the paperwork hed received when first setting it up. He indicated he had 
some photocopied documents concerning the DB pension he transferred in. In November 
1997, Aviva confirmed that the transfer value for Mr Js personal pension was £24,372.11.
In 1999 Aviva invited Mr J to take part in an industry wide review of pensions sales 
completed between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 (generally known as the pension 
review). Mr J responded to the invitation and Aviva reviewed the sale of the policy. 
It communicated the outcome of the review on 26 June 2001 and told Mr J that it didnt think 
hed suffered a loss by transferring his DB pension. It attached some data and assumptions 
upon which it based its review, which included (but were not limited to) things such as Mr Js 
marital status (not married) and the benefits he was entitled to under the DB scheme, which 
would have been payable from age 60. Aviva said Mr J should write to it within one month if 
he had any comments to make about the outcome of the review. And, if having 
communicated his concerns to Aviva he wasnt satisfied with its response, he could ask for a 
review of the decision under its complaints procedure. Following that, if he remained 
dissatisfied, Aviva said Mr J could refer a complaint to the PIA Ombudsman Bureau (a 
predecessor to the Financial Ombudsman Service) within six months of the letter. 
A 2007 statement from Aviva to Mr J said that the plans value was £33,432.31 as at 11 
January 2007. It suggested that a fund of this value could buy Mr J a total taxable yearly 
pension of around £1,946 a year (made up of protected rights and non-protected rights). 
Mr J switched his personal pension to a different provider, A, around September 2007 so 
that he could access his pension and take some tax-free cash. According to a statement that 
Aviva appears to have prepared when completing the switch, the total value for his fund at 
that time was £58,248.32, (I note Mr Js representative mentions a slightly different figure) 
with a current fund value of £33,669.56. According to some frequently asked questions 
noted on the statement, the current fund value was the value of the units at the current bid 
price. Whereas the total transfer value took account of things such as final bonuses. I 
understand that Mr J took a tax-free cash lump sum once the policy was switched and has 
taken a small amount of pension income in each year since.
Mr J complained to Aviva in March 2023 as he didnt think the advice to transfer out of his 
DB scheme was suitable. He explained, amongst other things, that he had no real 
understanding of pensions or the implications of investment risk. He said he transferred his 
pension purely because he was advised to and wouldnt have done so had he been advised 
properly. Mr J felt it ought to have been clear to the adviser that it was against his best 
interests to transfer his DB pension.
Aviva initially responded in May 2023. It said that having reviewed its records, it wasnt 
upholding the complaint. It thought Mr J had made his complaint too late. It explained Mr Js 
right to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service but said that we might not 
be able to consider the complaint if we agreed that Mr J hadnt complained in time. Whilst 
noting that was ultimately a matter for this Service to decide, Aviva said that if we agreed the 
complaint had been made too late, we wouldnt have its permission to consider the merits of 
it. 
In a further response sent in June 2023, Aviva confirmed that the sale of Mr Js pension was 
included in the industry wide pension review. The outcome of that review was that Mr J 
hadnt suffered a loss, so it said it wasnt required to consider the matter again. As far as 
Aviva was concerned, it had satisfied the regulators requirements at the time. It enclosed a 
copy of the review file, which included the questionnaire; scheme benefit details; loss 
assessment and outcome letter. It also said Mr J could raise any issues within six weeks and 
it would re-examine the case. Aviva pointed out that when it wrote to Mr J to communicate 
the outcome of the pension review, it told him he could refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service within six months if he wasnt happy. As Mr J hadnt made his 
complaint within that timeframe, it thought hed likely made his complaint too late - unless 
this Service decided to waive the rules wed usually apply when deciding whether a 
complaint had been made in time.  
Mr J wasnt happy with Avivas response, so he complained to this Service in July 2023. He 
said that Avivas advice to transfer his DB pension was clearly and obviously unsuitable 
given the guaranteed benefits hed given up. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and sent Mr J and Aviva his findings. He 
first addressed the question of whether Mr J had brought his complaint in time. He was 
satisfied that he had. However, as far as the merits of Mr Js complaint were concerned, the 
Investigator felt that by reviewing the sale of Mr Js policy as part of the pension review, 
Aviva had already considered that Mr J may have received unsuitable advice. So, the 
Investigator said that we wouldnt revisit that matter. And, as there was no suggestion Aviva had based its assessment on incorrect information, the Investigator was satisfied the review 
had been conducted fairly. 
Mr J didnt agree and made a number of comments in response. Those included:
there was a conflict of interest because the agent who advised on the transfer 
worked for the same company that administered the pension he took out. He felt that 
was directly in conflict with the duty to provide suitable advice to a client, because the 
adviser would likely have received some commission. He suggested that this wasnt 
an issue considered within the pension review.
Aviva hadnt explained, nor had we referred to, any particularly unusual 
circumstances which might explain why Mr J wasnt thought to have suffered a loss 
when he transferred his DB pension. He said he expected clear and compelling 
evidence to be available to back up such a conclusion. 
He questioned some of the other figures used, such as the plans value at the 
effective date in 2001 compared to a reduced value six years later. He doesnt think 
£37,482.97 is the right value at the effective date of 1 May 2001, given that by about 
September 2007, some six years after the stated effective date, the plans value was 
£33,669.56.
In conclusion, Mr J didnt think there was enough evidence on which to safely 
conclude that the pension review was carried out properly. So, he thought the fair 
and reasonable thing to do would be for Aviva to complete another calculation. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
Our authority to consider this complaint 
Aviva initially told Mr J that it thought his complaint hadnt been made in time, but it 
explained that was ultimately a matter for this Service to decide. Our Investigator concluded 
that the complaint had been made in time. From the evidence Ive reviewed, Im also 
satisfied that the complaint has been made in time. However, as Ive reached my decision 
for slightly different reasons to our Investigator, Ive explained my reasoning below. 
DISP 2.8 of the Dispute Resolution rules says:  
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to 
the Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record 
of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances; or(5)  the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have expired.
DISP 2.8.5 states:
Pensions review and FSAVC review
The six-year and the three-year time limits do not apply where:
(2)  the complaint concerns a contract or policy which is the subject of a review directly or 
indirectly under:
(a)  the terms of the Statement of Policy on 'Pension transfers and Opt-outs' issued by the 
FSA on 25 October 1994; or
(b) the terms of the policy statement for the review of specific categories of FSAVC business 
issued by the FSA on 28 February 2000.
Aviva thought that as Mr J didnt complain within six months of the 2001 pension review 
outcome letter he hadnt satisfied DISP 2.8.1. I dont agree. 
My interpretation of the pension review outcome letter that Aviva sent to Mr J was that it 
wasnt a final response letter in the normal sense. Thats because it didnt give referral 
rights to this Service as such letters typically would. And DISP 2.8.1 specifically requires a 
complaint to be made within six months of a final response having been sent. So, I dont 
agree that Mr J ought to have complained within six months of the June 2001 letter as I dont 
think thats what started the six month clock. 
According to DISP 2.8.1 Mr J had six months from when Aviva sent its final response letter 
on 12 May 2023. As he complained to this Service around 20 July 2023, Im satisfied hes 
met the requirements of DISP 2.8.1. 
DISP 2.8.2 states that a complaint must be made within six years of the event complained of 
or three years from when the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware, of a cause for complaint. I think the effect of DISP 2.8.5 though is that the six 
year limit on the complaint is paused whilst the advice was subject to the pension review. 
And it would have restarted once the outcome of that review was communicated. 
Technically, Mr J had until about March 1999 to make a complaint, which was six years 
following the event (the advice to transfer his pension). However, he responded to the 
pension review invitation in February 1999, which paused the clock. He then had about 
another month after the pension review outcome was communicated to him (so until about 
July 2001) to make his complaint. Theres no suggestion that Mr J complained about the 
advice by that point. So, he hasnt satisfied the six-year part of the rule.
Mr J says he only became aware of a potential issue as he was approaching state retirement 
age around June 2021. Ive thought about this in order to decide whether Mr J has satisfied 
the three-year part of the rule. 
Its not absolutely clear whether Mr J received the pension review outcome letter when it was 
originally sent. But even if he had, I dont think that alone would have given him cause for 
complaint. Whilst Mr J certainly appears to have been given some of the assumptions and 
data used in the review, its not clear whether he had all of the information that would have 
been taken into account. In any event, Aviva told Mr J he hadnt suffered a loss and I think 
he would have been entitled to rely on the outcome that a business like Aviva communicated 
 especially as it seems Mr J had no pensions experience of his own. I also thought about whether anything that happened in 2007 when Mr J switched his 
personal pension between providers ought reasonably to have given Mr J cause for 
complaint. And, on balance, Im not persuaded they would have done. Mr Js representative 
says he hadnt retained documentation relating to the 1993 advice. I havent seen a copy of 
the suitability report completed when Mr J sought advice about switching. But it seems 
unlikely it would have made a fair comparison between the benefits Mr J might have been 
entitled to from the DB scheme at his normal retirement age versus his personal pension in 
order to determine there might be a problem. That wasnt the purpose of the advice in 2007. 
It appears to have been mainly geared towards whether Mr J could release some tax-free 
cash. 
Mr J suggested that he only became aware of a potential issue concerning the advice he 
received as he was approaching retirement around 2021. And in the course of him raising a 
complaint with Aviva, concerns about the pension review also became apparent.  
In the absence of any other persuasive evidence, Im satisfied by Mr Js testimony. He 
complained to this Service in July 2023, which is within three years of when he became 
aware of a cause for complaint. So, Im satisfied hes made his complaint in time and its one 
that I can consider. Ive now gone on to address the merits of Mr Js complaint.
My decision on the merits of this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he still believes the advice to transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable and that hes lost out as a result. And he doesnt think there is 
enough evidence on which to safely conclude that the pension review was carried out 
properly  especially when his representative believes hes likely suffered a loss of about 
£50,000. I havent seen detailed analysis to support this figure. 
The purpose of the pension review was to address the fact that some consumers may have 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the advice they received. And whilst Mr J does appear 
to accept that a genuine no loss situation could arise for a variety of different reasons (and 
has sighted some examples to illustrate his point), he doesnt think any of those factors were 
present in his case. In addition to that hes suggested that some of the figures in the 
calculation, such as the pension value used in 2001, were probably incorrect. Ive thought 
about Mr Js points carefully.
Its not for me to carry out a new loss calculation for Mr J. I say that for a couple of different 
reasons. First, the pension review was intended to be a one-off exercise that would bring 
about a resolution to the complaint for both the consumer and respondent business. It wasnt 
envisaged that the issue would be revisited many years after the event. Second, pension 
review calculations are complex and are carried out by professionals with expertise in these 
matters. We dont have the same level of expertise as the actuaries businesses use and its 
not our role to check a calculation thoroughly in the way that Mr J might hope or expect. 
Third, pension review calculations were subject to supervision and sampling at the time by 
the then regulator. And it seems likely therefore that errors or non-compliance would have 
been picked up at the time. 
Mr J is aware that if were to look into complaints such as this now, wed need to be satisfied 
the pension review was carried out incorrectly. So, thats the context within which Ive 
considered his complaint.Mr J thinks one of the valuations used by Aviva as at the effective date of May 2001 
(£37,482.97) was probably wrong. His basis for saying so seems to be that had that been 
the actual value of his pension at that time, it would have been worth about £53,000 in 2007 
given stock market movements between 2002-2007. Whereas he says the pension was 
actually worth around £33,000 in 2007. Therefore, Mr J seems to be suggesting that Aviva 
inflated the 2001 figure when completing the pension review calculation. 
I wont be commenting on stock market movements, or the value of Mr Js pension in 2007, 
as those are not matters directly relevant to the issues I need to consider here. What I need 
to decide is how likely it was that the value used for Mr Js pension in 2001 was incorrect, 
potentially making the pension review outcome incorrect. On balance, after careful 
consideration, Im satisfied the figures used were more likely than not to have been correct. 
Ill explain why.
Aviva has shown me a record from 2001 which reflects the value of the part of the pension 
Mr J is concerned about. I can see it does show the value used was £37,482.97. Aviva also 
explained that the 2001 fund value included a final bonus amount in line with the regulators 
guidelines for review loss assessments. However, it added that the annual statements sent 
to Mr J would only have shown the bid value of the units and wouldnt quote a final bonus. 
So, the figure of £37,482.97 wouldnt necessarily correlate with other figures that may have 
been quoted on any annual statements Mr J received at the time. That seems a reasonable 
explanation to me. 
In addition, I dont think Mr J is making a fair or like for like comparison when comparing a 
value of around £37,000 with a reduced value of about £33,000 in 2007. As Ive already 
touched on, Aviva told me that the value in 2001 included a final bonus in line with the 
regulators guidelines. But the value of around £33,000 that Mr J seems to be referring to is 
the value of the units in his fund minus a bonus. When he switched his plan to another 
provider in 2007, the total value (including bonuses) was over £58,000. Thats much closer 
to the value that Mr J thinks his pension should have been worth in 2007 if Aviva used the 
correct figure in its 2001 calculation - in fact its even higher. I think this adds further weight 
to the fact that Aviva more likely than not used the right figure in 2001. 
Another point Mr J has made is that Aviva wrote P for prospective loss on the review 
documents. He thought that was at odds with the overall outcome of no loss. I asked Aviva 
about this too. It explained that there were two types of loss calculations. One was an actual 
loss calculation where the policyholder had already taken their pension benefits. In those 
cases Aviva could compare the value of the actual policy benefits versus what would have 
been paid by the previous scheme. If the policy was still in force, then it carried out a 
prospective loss assessment, hence writing P on the form. I think Avivas explanations here 
are also reasonable. Mr J hadnt taken his pension benefits at the time Aviva completed the 
loss calculation, so based on the descriptors mentioned, Im satisfied it correctly categorised 
things according to Mr Js circumstances at the time.  
Mr J thinks that a fund value of around £110,000 is mentioned in the review documents. And 
hes suggested therefore thats further reason to question the no loss outcome that Aviva 
reached. I can see why Mr J might think thats a fund value. But thats not my interpretation 
of that particular figure. As Ive said, its not for me to replace my own calculations with those 
carried out the actuaries Aviva would have used. But as far as Im aware when completing 
loss calculations such as this, a business will revalue a pension to work out what it might 
cost to provide the same level of benefits at the pension schemes normal retirement date. 
That appears to be what the £110,000 figure is referring to. But as Mr J was not at his 
normal retirement age when Aviva completed the calculation, it would have completed a further calculation to work out the equivalent cost in 2001. Again, whilst Ive carefully 
considered Mr Js assertions, I've seen no persuasive evidence of mistakes in Avivas 
calculations. 
Another of Mr Js points is that there was a conflict of interest on the advisers part by 
recommending a plan administered by his own company. He says the pension review didnt 
address this. As far as Im aware, it wasnt meant to address complaints such as this. Its 
also worth saying that typically, advice would have been given by an independent financial 
adviser or a restricted (sometimes called tied) adviser who worked for a specific company. I 
dont have all of the point of sale documents, but from whats been said, Mr Js adviser 
seemed to fall into the latter category. The key difference between the two different types of 
adviser is the range of investment products that each can recommend. Typically, tied 
advisers can only recommend a limited range of investments. Sales where the business is a 
provider (as appears to be the case here) is likely to involve a tied adviser. So, the adviser 
can only recommend products from this particular provider. In that context, the situation that 
Mr J has described isnt necessarily unusual.  And I dont think it means that Aviva (or the 
firm that gave the advice at the time) did anything wrong. Mr J also says this wasnt 
considered as part of the pension review. But, as Ive said, Im not aware that it was meant 
to. Given that, again, theres no suggestion that Aviva did anything wrong. 
In summary, whilst I appreciate Mr Js position, overall, I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence to suggest that Aviva carried out the pension review incorrectly. I appreciate Mr J 
will likely be disappointed, but I wont be directing Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman