DRN-3627623
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) didnt provide 
appropriate advice when it settled a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P made a claim with Ageas for a water leak. Ageas accepted the claim and 
paid a cash settlement at Mr P and Mrs Ps request. A few years later, Mr P and Mrs P made 
another claim, with a different insurer, for an issue in the same part of their home. That 
insurer declined the claim because it said the damage was the result of the wall not being 
properly dried when the previous damage occurred.
So, Mr P and Mrs P complained to Ageas. They said they hadnt been told the wall needed 
to be dried. When Ageas replied to the complaint, it said it had cash settled the claim and so 
Mr P and Mrs Ps own tradespeople had carried out the work. It said its report on the claim 
noted that they were advised to make sure trades checked moisture levels before carrying 
out the work.
When Mr P and Mrs P contacted this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said as the claim was cash settled, it was the responsibility of Mr P and Mrs Ps 
tradespeople to ensure they carried out any repairs appropriately, including checking 
moisture levels.
As Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When an insurer pays a cash settlement to settle a claim, it isnt then responsible for the 
quality of the works carried out by tradespeople, or others, to deal with the damage. So, 
based on that principle, I dont think Ageas was responsible if the work wasnt carried out to 
the correct standard, as it didnt carry out the repairs.
However, Ive looked at whether Ageas should have done more as part of settling the claim. 
Ive read the report from the claim. This said:
 no accelerated drying works are recommended, given natural drying out of the affected 
area is anticipated to occur, once permanent repairs to the shower cubicle, which are 
outside Insurers remit, are competed. Notwithstanding, the attending contractor must make 
their own final assessment, based on an invasive inspection if necessary, to establish if 
moisture levels are sufficiently low to enable works to proceed. A control reading and 
comparative reading must be taken for each affected area/material.
So, the expectation was that the area would dry out naturally. However, it was noted that 
tradespeople would need to take readings to ensure the drying was sufficient before works 
were carried out. 
Its my understanding that Mr P and Mrs P only recently became aware of what the report 
said. I also cant be certain whether Ageas said anything to Mr P and Mrs P about the drying 
process. But, even if I assume that it didnt say anything, this doesnt change my view on 
whether Ageas was responsible for the more recent damage. 
Mr P and Mrs P seemed to use a dehumidifier to dry their property, so I think they were 
aware there was moisture present. Ageas also wasnt required to provide advice to any 
tradespeople Mr P and Mrs P appointed to carry out the repairs. It also wasnt responsible 
for any conversations between Mr P and Mrs P and the tradespeople about the nature of the 
damage and the repairs. It was for whoever carried out the works to ensure that they carried 
out a lasting and effective repair, including carrying out appropriate checks before starting 
the works. When Ageas paid the cash settlement, it didnt have any responsibility for the 
repairs or how they were carried out.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman