DRN-3725493
The complaint
Mr O, complains that Spreadex Limited (Spreadex) in breach of data protection laws, used 
his data to search members of his family on social media platforms.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Spreadex has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr O has disagreed and 
maintains his complaint against Spreadex. 
The facts around what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
- The information used to do the search was the email address Mr O provided when he 
opened the account with Spreadex.
- The search resulted in the email address being matched to a family member which 
led to further investigation to confirm the identity of the applicant  a legitimate 
interest to perform the search.
- The family member also lived at the same address as Mr O and the checks being 
done were considered acceptable within the remit of anti-money laundering 
regulations in order to confirm his identity which I understand still hasnt been 
confirmed despite Mr O continuing to trade with Spreadex. 
- Spreadex accepted the search of the family member on a social media site was done 
using an employees personal account in error. That said, I cannot see that any 
detriment has resulted from this. There is no evidence any that information was 
passed to a third party or that the data was used for any other purpose. 
- In addition, the information viewed about the family member was readily available in 
the public domain.
- Mr O has referred his complaint to the Information Commissioners Office in relation 
to the GDPR breaches but the information Ive seen says the complaint hasnt been 
upheld in relation to this.
- I dont think any losses Mr O has incurred have been due to any breach on 
Spreadexs part. The losses stem from trading decisions he himself made on his 
execution only account. 
- To be clear, this decision looks solely at the spreadbetting element of Mr Os 
complaint and any associated concerns and I am not persuaded that Spreadexs 
actions has resulted in a data breach or are responsible for the losses hes incurred 
so I will not be asking them to do anything.
I know Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, as I can see his concern around the 
trading practices of Spreadex. This is not something that I can consider here as it is not 
within the remit of this service to tell a business how to operate, that is the role of the 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. I would suggest he contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority if he continues to have concerns around trading practices and/or conduct of 
Spreadex.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Spreadex Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman