DRN-2922010
The complaint
Ms B has complained that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim 
under her building warranty. 
What happened
Ms B owns a house that was built in 2013. It came with a ten year NHBC warranty.
In 2017 she contacted NHBC because paint was flaking on her window frames and two 
windows couldnt be opened because they were jammed. Ms B provided evidence that this 
issue affected a number of other properties on her estate and that the damage was due to 
the timber not having been primed before painting. She said ten neighbours whod 
complained within the first two years of the warranty had been compensated and NHBC had 
admitted in writing that it was a site wide issue.
NHBC said the damage wasnt covered by the relevant part of the warranty and it didnt 
accept the claim. It said the problem should have been reported to the builder within the first 
two years of the warranty.
Ms B referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought 
NHBC had interpreted the warranty correctly. As Ms B didnt agree, the matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms B is concerned about the cost of replacing all her windows and external 
doors, particularly when the owners of neighbouring properties appear to have been 
compensated for the similar problems. But I also have to take into account that her NHBC 
warranty -in common with other insurance policies- only covers certain things and that 
exclusions and limits apply. So Ive looked at whether NHBC assessed his claim correctly 
and I think it did.
In years three to ten of the warranty section 3 of the warranty applies. Under that NHBC is 
only liable for certain parts of the building such as foundations, load-bearing walls and 
double-glazing or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors. It doesnt cover the 
timber frames.
;
Unfortunately because she bought the property in years three to ten of the warranty, Ms B 
wasnt able to notify the builder or NHBC of this damage sooner. But regardless of that, the 
fact remains that the damage isnt covered by this part of the warranty.
Ive also checked whether Ms B might be covered under any other section of the warranty. 
Section 4 covers damage if a property doesnt comply with certain building regulations and 
because of that theres a health and safety risk. Unfortunately for Ms B this section only 
covers Glazing - safety in relation to impact, opening and cleaning as opposed to window 
and door frames. That means the damage to Ms Bs timber frames isnt covered by this part 
of the warranty either.
Ms B feels strongly that NHBC should be liable because all the windows and doors on her 
estate came from the same supplier and suffered from the same defects. In addition NHBC 
has previously admitted that there is a systemic fault across the estate and other house 
holders have been compensated for the same issues. I dont doubt thats the case. But I can 
only look at whether NHBC acted reasonably under the terms of Ms Bs warranty rather than 
in terms of moral responsibility. Having done so, as explained above, I dont think its under 
any obligation to repair the damage in question.
Ms B thinks the reference in the warranty to panes should be interpreted as including 
window and door frames. I disagree. I think the usual meaning of pane is the glass within a 
window or door. If NHBC had intended to cover these parts of the windows and doors, it 
would have said so or just referred more broadly to windows and doors. 
Ms B also says that section 3 covers defects that affect the structural integrity of the 
property. If window frames are crumbling, that affects the structural integrity of the window. I 
dont doubt her logic. But NHBC has only chosen to offer cover for the structural integrity of 
certain parts of the building and for the reasons explained above, those parts dont include 
window and door frames.
 
Im sorry to learn of the problems Ms B has experienced with her property. But because of 
the nature of the defect with her property, I dont think its covered by her warranty and so I 
cant require NHBC to deal with her claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman