DRN-3868792
The complaint
Mr T, represented by his solicitors, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) treated him 
unfairly by overcharging him on his mortgage.
What happened
In 2007, Mr T took out a mortgage with BOS. The offer confirmed an initial rate of 5.25% 
would apply to the mortgage until 28 February 2009, after which, BOS standard variable 
rate (SVR) would apply. 
Since Mr Ts mortgage was taken out, the Bank of England Base Rate and the SVR have 
operated as follows:
Date 
EffectiveBase 
RateBOS 
SVRDifference
11/01/2007 5.25%   
01/02/2007  7.50% 2.25%
10/05/2007 5.50%   
01/06/2007  7.85% 2.35%
05/07/2007 5.75%   
01/08/2007  8.10% 2.35%
06/12/2007 5.50%   
01/01/2008  7.85% 2.35%
07/02/2008 5.25%   
01/03/2008  7.60% 2.35%
10/04/2008 5.00%   
01/05/2008  7.35% 2.35%
08/10/2008 4.50%   
01/11/2008  6.85% 2.35%
06/11/2008 3.00%   
01/12/2008  5.35% 2.35%
04/12/2008 2.00%   
01/01/2009  4.84% 2.84%
08/01/2009 1.50% 4.84% 3.34%
05/02/2009 1.00% 4.84% 3.84%
05/03/2009 0.50% 4.84% 4.34%
01/11/2011 0.50% 4.95% 4.45%
04/08/2016 0.25% 4.95% 4.70%
02/11/2017 0.50% 4.95% 4.45%
On 12 December 2019, Mr Ts representative sent a letter of complaint to BOS on Mr Ts 
behalf. The letter set out that Mr T sought to claim damages in relation to being overcharged 
interest on his outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest rates and any 
variations in the interest rates charged by BOS. 
The letter set out that Mr T considers that the mortgage offer issued on 2 February 2007 
contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr Ts representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr T was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate, rather than at 
BOS discretion.
Mr T does not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which defined 
the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Mr T, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that BOS could 
vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The failure to 
do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for the 
purposes of UTCCR such that BOS is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr T did not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging his mortgage and switching to another lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr Ts mortgage balance rather than BOS SVR. 
BOS actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr T seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest he paid on his 
mortgage and the amount he would have paid had it been subject to what he deems 
to be a reasonable rate. 
BOS responded to the letter of complaint on 30 January 2020, disagreeing with Mr Ts 
allegations. In summary, BOS argued:
The mortgage documentation clearly explained that its SVR could change and the 
bank is allowed to change its SVR in the circumstances set out in the mortgage 
conditions. 
The descriptions of the interest rate set out in the mortgage offer are worded in 
accordance with the requirements of the MCOB rules. 
The mortgage conditions expand on the offer and include details of the banks right to 
change the variable rate. It does not agree that, by virtue of them being set out separately from the mortgage offer, Mr T shouldnt be expected to have read them.
The ERC ceased to apply to the mortgage once the fixed rate came to an end. So, 
Mr T was able to repay the mortgage without incurring any charges under the terms 
of the mortgage contract.
There is nothing in the terms and conditions of the mortgage that suggest a change 
in the Bank of England Base Rate would, or should, result in a change to its SVR. It 
does not agree that the mortgage documentation suggests, implies or states that the 
Mr Ts mortgage would track base rate. 
It disagrees that the terms are unfair contract terms. 
BOS also set out that it thought Mr T ought to have been aware that his mortgage did 
not track base rate at the outset of the mortgage from the mortgage documentation 
and financial advice he received before entering the mortgage. It also highlights that 
it wrote to Mr T in October 2011 to notify him of a change to the banks SVR. The 
change in SVR at that time was not linked to any change in the Bank of England 
Base Rate and it considers this was made clear in its letter. 
Before referring the complaint to this service, Mr Ts representative chose to write to BOS 
again, further detailing the complaint as follows:
It considers both a court and this service would find that a term allowing BOS 
unilateral and unfettered ability to vary an SVR would be deemed as an unfair 
contract term within the scope of UTCCR. 
The interest variation terms lack transparency as required by EU law. 
While the mortgage contract provides a list of criteria upon which the SVR may be 
varied, the reasons given are general and vague. They do not provide the clear and 
intelligible criteria that would permit the average consumer to foresee how the 
interest rate might change in the future, resulting in the term being deemed unfair. 
The terms are not drafted in plain and intelligible language.
As a result of the variation term being deemed unfair, it would be unenforceable 
under UTCCR. Relying on case law, the representative considers it would be open to 
a UK court to imply a term under English Law requiring payment of a reasonable rate 
in place of the SVR that was applied. 
It argues that a reasonable price for the SVR rate will most likely correspond to the 
cost of funds applicable to Mr Ts borrowing alone.
Mr Ts representative then referred the complaint to our service on 29 July 2020.
To address the points made, BOS chose to issue a further response on 6 August 2020. I 
have summarised its letter below:
The mortgage documentation explains that its SVR could change and that the bank 
is allowed to change its SVR provided it has a valid reason to do so as set out in the 
mortgage conditions. Contrary to the comment made by Mr Ts representative, it 
does not consider it has a completely unfettered right to vary the SVR. 
The calculation of interest applied to the mortgage account has been done in line 
with the terms and conditions of the contract agreed with Mr T. 
It does not consider Mr Ts representative to have provided any evidence or information to substantiate the claims it has made on his behalf. 
After referring the case to our service, Mr Ts representative sent in further submissions to 
support his complaint. It clarified that the essence of his claim was that BOS had artificially 
maintained an excessively high SVR post-credit crisis, whilst the cost of funds and interest 
rates in general have plummeted to near rock-bottom levels. We are claiming about the SVR 
Margin increase, which is the margin between the SVR and the BBR, and that the rate 
differential has increased markedly during the course of the mortgage. By increasing the 
SVR margin, the lender has unlawfully exercised their contractual discretion (which they 
have a Braganza Duty not to do)
It also sent in a summary of its legal analysis that applies to cases like Mr Ts and two 
reports:
Retail Mortgages Expert Report
UK Mortgage Prisoner Action Group Report 
It considers the first report to show how cost of funding mortgages is directly linked to the 
Bank of England Base Rate and that where the margin differential has increased, this can 
only be explained as pure profiteering by the lender. And the second report to show how this 
is exacerbated for mortgage prisoner borrowers, who have mortgages with inactive lenders. 
Our investigator issued an assessment explaining the limitations to our jurisdiction and what 
this meant for Mr Ts complaint. In summary he said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Mr T was misled into believing the SVR 
would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R). 
The complaint was raised on 12 December 2019, so the investigator concluded that 
a complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 12 December 2013 
onward. So, he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 
12 December 2013 onward were fair and reasonable. 
He noted that DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario 
where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event 
complained of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from 
the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint. But he thought Mr T ought reasonably to have 
been aware he had cause for complaint from February 2009 when his mortgage 
reverted to the SVR (given what his representative said he knew at the time he took 
out the mortgage) or, at the very latest, by October 2011 when he received a letter 
explaining that his SVR was going to change, despite there not being a 
corresponding change in the Base Rate. So, he didnt think this gave him any more 
time. 
The investigator set out that when considering the fairness of the interest rate 
charged from 12 December 2013 onward, he will need to take account of previous 
variations of the interest rate in order to determine whether the rate charged during 
the period he can look at is fair. He will also need to consider whether the variation 
clause is itself an unfair term as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things 
were part of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under 
the DISP rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 12 December 
2013 onward is fair and reasonable. 
The investigator clarified that in the event he recommends any redress, he will only be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint  12 December 2013 
onward. 
Mr T accepted our investigators findings on our jurisdiction. 
BOS disagreed, in summary its concerns were as follows:
The acts which Mr T is complaining of are the variations of the interest rate which 
have occurred from time to time and not individual charges of interest. 
This service only has jurisdiction to consider those variations commencing from a 
date starting the six years preceding the complaint. 
When considering the variations within the relevant period, it considers this service to 
be limited to considering whether those variations were made in accordance with the 
terms of the mortgage contract. It does not agree that the service can investigate 
wider factors such as the fairness of the variation term itself or the extent to which the 
margin between the SVR and the Base Rate might have changed because such 
complaints are time barred. 
This services opinion that we can look at older variations relies upon a 
misinterpretation of DISP 2.8.2 and the act which is being complained of. It is also 
contrary to the underlying policy considerations which sit behind the time barring 
provisions. 
It agrees that any complaint about the sale of the mortgage is outside of our 
jurisdiction. 
Our investigator responded to BOS objections and endorsed his original assessment of our 
jurisdiction. But BOS continued to object so one of our ombudsmen issued a jurisdiction 
decision setting out that we could look at part of Mr Ts complaint. Specifically, events from 
12 December 2013 which covers a period of six years from the date Mr T raised his 
complaint. 
In response, BOS invited us to dismiss the case as it considers this service has already dealt 
with the subject matter of Mr Ts complaint in prior cases brought by other consumers.  
Our investigator set out that he didnt think it would be appropriate to dismiss Mr Ts 
complaint. He acknowledged that this service had dealt with similar complaints brought by 
other complainants, but he did not agree that this meant the subject matter of Mr Ts 
individual complaint had already been considered by the service. 
BOS provided its submissions enabling us to investigate merits but maintained its position 
that we should dismiss the complaint. 
Our investigator issued an assessment not upholding the merits of Mr Ts complaint on 10 
November 2022. In summary he said:
BOS was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage contract 
in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and conditions 
would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. 
The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. Mr Ts mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England Base Rate, he 
was made sufficiently aware of its terms and that BOS has sought to charge interest 
in accordance with those terms. 
The investigator was not persuaded at a general level that the relevant terms satisfy 
the wider transparency requirements. While he thought they were easy to follow 
grammatically, the terms are broad and the circumstances in which changes might 
be made give BOS significant discretion about when it could make changes to the 
SVR and by how much. He found the reasons for variation to be wider than 
reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose and that they do not explain to 
the consumer the method for determining the new price. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Mr T dissolving the contract, the investigator noted that BOS 
was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So, Mr T would 
not have had to pay a charge to end his contract with BOS should he have chosen to 
switch to another lender. The investigator added that he didnt think switching costs 
were a significant barrier to exit and instead were costs a borrower could incur if they 
ever sought to switch lender. 
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr T experienced because of 
mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need to consider 
whether BOS had exercised the terms fairly. 
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.   
The investigator was not persuaded BOS varied the rate unfairly. 
The investigator noted that while the SVR reduced between 2007 and 2009, the 
difference between the SVR and the Bank of England Base Rate increased. He set 
out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the 
financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.  
Bank of Scotland provided information to show that their cost of funds did not reduce 
in line with Base Rate. 
In 2011, Bank of Scotland increased its SVR without a corresponding increase to 
Base Rate. It provided our service with information to show that the banks cost of 
funds had increased, and their margins had reduced below the levels they were 
before the financial crisis. Our investigator was satisfied the increase in SVR was 
allowed for under the terms and he was not persuaded it was unfair for BOS to adjust 
its SVR to reflect those changes in costs. 
Following 2011, the SVR Mr T paid remained static until the mortgage was 
redeemed. While the Base Rate did briefly reduce and then go back up again in 
2016/2017, the investigator reiterated that there was no requirement for BOS to 
make corresponding changes to the SVR. 
Overall, he didnt think there was anything to suggest that BOS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, or that Mr T has overpaid interest. He also considered that the interest 
rate applied to Mr Ts mortgage over the term has remained generally in line with the 
SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. So, he did not consider the rate 
Mr T paid to have been an obvious outlier or excessive. 
Mr Ts representative responded to say it was disappointed in the outcome and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
It accepts BOS was not obligated to track Base Rate but it thinks Mr T had a 
legitimate expectation that the SVR would track variations to Base Rate, based 
upon the extensive number of separate variations that took place during the initial 
term of the mortgage, where the margin remained constant. So, it was a legitimate 
expectation based upon established practice. 
Our investigator did not provide any of the reasons BOS has given for each variation 
or the evidence it has provided to support its position. 
Without having seen the evidence, it doesnt think the reasons or evidence BOS has 
provided to justify the small increases could be used to explain or justify the large 
margin increase from 2.35% to over 4%. 
It doesnt think BOS has shown it discharged its Braganza duty. 
The investigator referred to BOS facing an increased risk but clause 7.10 does not 
permit variations for this. So, the investigator has mistakenly applied an irrelevant 
factor when considering BOS terms and conditions, which is a mistake in law and 
has given excessive weight and importance to the representations BOS has 
provided.
The investigator sent a letter endorsing his assessment. In summary he said:
The contract Mr T agreed to, set out how the SVR may vary and made no guarantee 
it would track Base Rate. The changes Mr Ts representatives point to as having 
created a legitimate expectation happened after he had entered said contract. So, it 
would not be fair or reasonable to conclude that BOS should have maintained the 
margin. 
Mr T became aware in 2009 when his initial fixed rate ended that the SVR had not 
operated in the way he says he thought it would. At this point, he was able to make a 
choice to either stay with BOS on its SVR (knowing it was not linked to base rate), 
take out a new fixed interest rate product with BOS or look to switch lender.
There are legitimate commercial reasons for allowing a firm to vary its SVR and 
artificially imposing a tracker rate on a mortgage would ignore the commercial reality 
of how mortgage funding works. 
Our service is able to receive evidence in confidence from the parties where 
appropriate, and it is not appropriate to share some of the specific information BOS 
has sent us about its commercial decisions for the rate changes throughout the 
relevant period. 
The difference between BOS cost of funds and the Base Rate did increase 
significantly during the 2008-2009 period, in line with what weve seen across the 
market. In order to retain its net interest margin, it couldnt have reduced the SVR by 
the same proportion as the base rate had fallen in that time. 
Overall, he was not satisfied that BOS had acted unreasonably by varying the SVR in 
the way that it did. The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final 
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 15 December 2022. 
Neither party made any further representations. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr T. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
BOS previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr Ts complaint, in short, it 
thought Mr T had brought his complaint too late under the DISP rules. In response to BOS 
objection, my colleague issued a jurisdiction decision setting out which parts of Mr Ts 
complaint this service had the power to consider. In summary, she found the following:
The Financial Ombudsman Service could not consider a complaint that Mr T was led 
to believe the interest rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base 
Rate, as that complaint was made out of time;
The Financial Ombudsman Service could consider a complaint about the amount and 
fairness of the interest Mr T was charged, but only from 12 December 2013 onwards 
 the complaint about charges before that date being out of time; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is 
necessary for this service to take into account the historic changes to BOS SVR, 
since the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of 
decisions BOS made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior 
to it. This includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier reliance 
on an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract. Thats 
because each time BOS charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful basis for doing so. 
The approach the ombudsman took in that decision reflects the decision of the High Court in 
an application for a judicial review of another ombudsmans decision in a similar case. I am 
therefore satisfied that, as a matter of jurisdiction, I have the power to consider this 
complaint.
Separately, since my colleagues jurisdiction decision, BOS has raised a further matter. Its 
invited me to dismiss this complaint without considering its merits pursuant to my powers 
under DISP 3.3.4A R(5) and DISP 3.3.4B G(3) on the grounds that its subject matter has 
already been dealt with by this service, brought by different complainants to Mr T, and 
should not be considered again. 
BOS has also said that, as this service has already considered the issues which are the 
subject of this complaint, there is no rational basis for us to re-investigate these issues 
again, particularly in the absence of new or material evidence. And given the time that has 
elapsed there is a risk that evidence previously provided to this service for consideration of 
the complaints we have previously considered will no longer be available. BOS considers 
this to prejudice its position and underlines how irrational it would be for this service to 
decide to re-investigate this subject. It adds that it would seriously impair the effective 
operating of this service to determine multiple complaints on a merits basis, in circumstances 
where important evidence has potentially been destroyed or cannot be located due to the 
passage of time. 
DISP 3.3.4A R gives me the power to dismiss (that is, a discretion to decline to consider the 
merits of) a complaint. It says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:

(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP 3.3.4B G goes on to say:
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:

(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence 
which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to the complainant).
This is the basis on which BOS invites me to dismiss this complaint. I dont agree that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has considered the subject matter of this complaint in 
previous complaints. I am satisfied that the subject matter of a complaint includes the 
identity of the complainant and the firm, and the complaint arising from that specific 
relationship, rather than complaints brought by different complainants about similar issues.
So, I dont agree that I have any power to dismiss Ts complaint on that basis. 
If I were wrong about that, I would still not think it appropriate to use my discretionary power 
to dismiss in these circumstances. Given that separate complainants can each allege they 
have suffered separate loss and are entitled to seek to recover that loss through a complaint, 
I would not think it appropriate to exercise my discretion to dismiss a complaint merely because it was similar to one previously brought by a separate complainant with no 
connection to this complainant. To do so would risk depriving this complainant of the 
opportunity to seek redress for their own alleged loss. And in my view that would not be 
consistent with my statutory obligations. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator which makes findings about the 
conduct of a firm of general applicability. Ours is an informal scheme, alternative to the 
courts, and designed to allow individual complainants to pursue their own complaints about 
financial services to recover their own alleged losses. The mere fact that some complainants 
have made similar complaints in the past is not a bar to other complainants bringing their 
own later complaints.
I think the appropriate course for me to follow is to consider the evidence and arguments 
now presented, noting BOS point about the possibility that other evidence that may also 
support its view is no longer available due to passage of time, and determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint.
Mr Ts representative has raised many individual complaint points both to BOS directly and 
to this service. However, I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr T had a legitimate expectation that his mortgage would track the Bank of England 
Base Rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, BOS has treated 
him unfairly. 
Mr T has paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what he should have paid 
from 12 December 2013 onwards because in varying the SVR, BOS (i) relied on an 
unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the terms and 
conditions. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did BOS actions cause Mr T to have a legitimate expectation that his mortgage would track 
the Bank of England Base Rate?
Mr Ts representative considers BOS actions in 2007-2009 to have given Mr T a legitimate 
expectation that his mortgage would track base rate. 
As I mentioned above, Mr T has already received an ombudsmans decision on our 
jurisdiction which sets out that this part of his complaint is out of time. 
To the extent that Mr Ts representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to complain 
about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr Ts mortgage would revert to the SVR once 
his fixed interest period expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. And I havent 
seen any evidence that persuades me that BOS was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to 
have its SVR track Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr Ts representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and conditions 
were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the mortgage 
contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
BOS was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in one 
document. And while I appreciate this means Mr T would need to read more than one 
document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed his mortgage, given this was a substantial liability, secured on his principal asset, I think Mr T ought reasonably to be 
treated as if he had read all of the information provided. 
Im also not aware of any evidence that can be properly said to show that BOS acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between base rate and SVR the same  the fact 
that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to indicate 
that BOS had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think that in 
commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which funding 
costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law, that on the facts of this 
case, would obviously commit BOS to doing so. 
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint. 
Fairness of interest charged: the interest rate variation terms
I have to consider whether from 12 December 2013 onwards Mr T paid an unfairly high rate 
of interest. While I acknowledge that Mr T paid the SVR set by BOS, and that there is no 
evidence (and no complaint) that BOS made any calculation errors in charging interest, I 
also think that there are other questions that are potentially relevant to whether the interest 
itself was fairly charged. One of those questions is whether the term allowing BOS to vary 
the SVR is the sort of term the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. The law 
on unfair terms is an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents 
businesses from taking advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, 
who have limited bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term 
contributed to the rate charged from 12 December 2013 onwards, then that might be 
relevant to whether interest charged from 12 December 2013 was fair. 
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves: 
Section 4 of the mortgage offer states:
The mortgage is at a Fixed Rate BFR128  Fixed Rate of 5.250% which ends on 
28/02/2009. 
Your loan reverts to Bank of Scotland Home Loan Rate (our standard variable rate) currently 
7.500% after 28/02/2009. 
Bank of Scotland Home Loan Rate (our standard variable rate) is the base rate which 
applies to this mortgage.

The interest rate applicable to this mortgage account can go up or down
The Mortgage Conditions 2004 document sets out:
7. The interest we charge

7.10 We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the offer, 
an extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we cannot. We can change the 
interest rate for any of the following reasons. (a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our customers 
with mortgages.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including the 
terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation 
made by or a requirement of court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or an 
undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the way we look after the mortgage account or mortgage 
accounts generally (including changes to the technology we use) because of:
The steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for managing 
those accounts; or 
Reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because:
a. We are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of another 
bank or organisation offering similar services
b. We are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another bank or 
organisation offering similar services or
c. Any of these things has happened.
And the change will make sure that our customers and the customers of the other 
bank or organisation are treated in a similar way if they are in similar categories. 
(g) To reflect changes to the way the property is used or occupied.
Where we refer to changes in the above list, we mean changes we know will happen or we 
reasonably believe will happen or changes which have already taken place. 
7.11 We can also change the interest rate for any other valid reason.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category 
of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether I think that a court would have a 
reasonable basis to conclude that the relevant terms may be unfair. 
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Mr T took the mortgage out. And whether the terms in question go to 
the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of the price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various factors 
relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, 
they would not be binding on Mr T (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And BOS would not have been 
permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. 
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v 
Beavis. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;
The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of 
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. 
Application to Mr Ts complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair: 
Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in all the surrounding 
circumstances. - Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr Ts mortgage 
contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and are 
common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or indeterminate 
duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both consumers 
and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to 
provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge 
to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding...1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself 
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would 
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think 
the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in 
hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr Ts mortgage at the point it reverted to the SVR 
on 28 February 2009. So, if BOS had exercised its rights as set by the variation term, and 
Mr T was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to transfer his 
mortgage to another lender should he have wished without having to pay this charge. 
While Mr Ts representative has said that other costs impacted on Mr Ts ability to redeem 
his mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of significant 
barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a variation clause is 
unfair. Mr T would incur these costs if ever he sought to switch lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mr Ts agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect BOS legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent. Having done so, and while overall I am satisfied with the fairness of 
the variation clause, I accept that there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts 
of the clause are overly broad and that it could be more transparent. But I think its important 
to be clear that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is 
whether there has been any unfairness to Mr T from 12 December 2013 onwards. The 
fairness of the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question. 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr T. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold 
this case. 
Has BOS exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr Ts mortgage since 12 December 2013. All interest 
charging events before that are out of time because Mr T did not refer his complaint in time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mr T was charged during the period 
that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to BOS SVR, since the 
SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of decisions BOS 
made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
Im satisfied that each time BOS made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at 
that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the 
level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 12 December 
2013 is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the 
fairness or lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR 
charged from December 2013. 
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after December 2013, and 
having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything BOS has 
done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from 12 December 2013 onwards. 
BOS has not been able to provide extensive information for the period before 2011. So, it is 
possible that there is evidence relevant to its decision making at that time that is no longer in 
existence. While this is not surprising given that the events in question took place over 
twelve years ago, it is a relevant consideration, and Ive also taken into account the 
difficulties of reviewing a complex decision so long after the events. 
 
While this limits the depths to which I can assess BOS decisions to, or not to, vary its SVR 
prior to 2011, it has been able to give us extracts of information, relevant to that period. I 
have looked at that alongside, what I understand about what was happening to the wider 
market at the time, and I have consulted analysis from other sources such as the Bank of 
England and the FCA.     
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence BOS has 
been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr T. Our rules allow me to accept 
information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the information and 
evidence BOS has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in this 
decision. 
Between February 2007 (when Mr T took out his mortgage) and February 2009 when his 
fixed interest period ended, the difference between the Bank of England Base Rate and the 
SVR increased from 2.25% to 4.34%. Whilst the SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt 
reduce by the same proportion as the reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage, so BOS was not contractually 
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr Ts mortgage had a cap preventing BOS SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. So, there 
was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited BOS from setting the SVR at a level 
whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt mean 
that BOS could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. As discussed above, the term 
enabling BOS to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent businesses taking advantage 
of customers), and BOS had to ensure that in varying the SVR it only did so for one of the 
reasons set out in the contract. 
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including 
BOS, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the 
market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both 
the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly 
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their 
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors and that are not directly 
linked to base rate. So, I think there are likely to be objectively justifiable reasons why BOS 
did not reduce its SVR at the same level as the reduction in the Bank of England Base Rate. 
BOS has told us it experienced unusual volatility in its long-term funding costs at this time 
and it has been able to show the resulting impact on its overall margins as well as illustrating 
the spread between its cost of funding and the reductions in base rate. 
It is accepted that during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between 
LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate 
reductions to LIBOR or to BOS cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale 
funding became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default. 
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest the changes BOS made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence 
Ive seen satisfies me that BOS acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its 
obligation to treat Mr T fairly. And Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the evidence BOS 
has been able to provide for this period is corroborated by evidence of wider market 
conditions at the time. 
While I note and have considered in full the expert reports provided by Mr Ts representative, 
I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided by BOS on the 
impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above, I 
have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that lead me to a different 
conclusion from Mr Ts representative.
In 2011, BOS increased its SVR by 0.11% outside of any changes to Base Rate. It has told 
us this was due to an increase in the cost of holding equity as per its requirements under 
Basel II and has provided evidence of these increases4. It has also shown that its margins 
overall had reduced to below the levels they were before the financial crisis. To meet these 
increased costs, driven in part by changes to regulatory requirements, it chose to increase 
its SVR. I am satisfied the terms provide for this scenario and that BOS has evidenced it 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what determines 
them and why do they matter? 
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services consumer 
contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10
4 The regulatory framework which covers capital requirements for banks is the Basel Accords, 
published by the Basel Committee on banking Supervision. In June 2004, the original Basel I capital 
measurement system was replaced by a significantly more complex capital adequacy framework, 
known as Basel II. The Basel II requirements started to be implemented across Europe from 2008.exercised its contractual right to vary the SVR fairly by balancing both its own interests and 
those of Mr T in making this decision. 
Following the change in 2011, Mr Ts SVR remained static at 4.95%. The Bank of England 
Base Rate did reduce in 2016 before subsequently increasing in 2017, but BOS was not 
obligated to track base rate, or reduce its SVR solely because the Base Rate had reduced. 
And as I have set out above, BOS cost of funding was multi-faceted, with the Base Rate 
being only one of a number of influencing factors. 
Overall, even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I 
am not persuaded that BOS operated them in an unfair manner when setting and varying the 
interest rate that applied to Mr Ts mortgage. That being the case, I dont think there is any 
basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mr T being charged an unfairly high rate of 
interest on his mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say 
that the interest he was charged during that period was unfair for any other reason. 
I have also considered the representatives point that BOS has breached Principle 6 of the 
FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons set 
out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
Finally, I note that at an earlier stage in the Ombudsman Services consideration of this 
complaint, the representative argued that BOS had breached its Braganza duty not to 
exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For 
the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im satisfied that 
BOS did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and 
rationally.
My final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and 
I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman