DRN-3390922
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Capital One (Europe) plc surrounding
financial assistance he received from Capital One when he was unable to make the monthly
payments due on the account, including that Capital One ultimately defaulted his account for
non-payment.
What happened
Mr M had a credit account with Capital One that was well maintained. In August 2019, Mr M
contacted Capital One and explained that hed been diagnosed with cancer and was unable
to work. Capital One agreed to place Mr Ms account on a special arrangement for six
months where Mr M wouldnt be obliged to make any payments towards the account during
that period but where any due monthly payments that Mr M didnt make would be recorded 
as arrears and reported as missed payments to the credit reference agencies.
Mr M didnt make any payments towards his Capital One account during the six month
period, and at the end of the period he contacted Capital One and explained that he was
now unable to work as a result of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and needed further
financial assistance. In response, Capital One agreed to implement a three-month payment
holiday on Mr Ms account under terms prescribed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
which included that arrears wouldnt be reported to the credit reference agencies for the
months that the payment holiday was in place.
When the three month payment holiday ended, Capital One defaulted Mr Ms account as
they hadnt had any update from him about his circumstances and because the account was
considered as being six months in arrears as a result of the payments not being made for
the six months that Mr M was in the previous arrangement that began in August 2019. Mr M
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Capital One looked at Mr Ms complaint,
but they didnt feel that theyd defaulted Mr Ms account unfairly, and so they didnt uphold
his complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. They felt that when the three-
month FCA prescribed payment holiday had ended, that Capital One should have granted
Mr M a further three-month payment holiday on the same terms, as per the FCAs continuing
guidance at that time. As such, they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ms
favour and that Capital One should grant Mr M a backdated second payment holiday and
should remove the default from his credit file. Our adjudicator also recommended that
Capital One should make a payment of £150 to Mr M to compensate him for the trouble and
upset hed incurred.
Capital One didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our adjudicator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 February 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the FCA published temporary guidance regarding the provision of 
three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty 
meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of financial difficulties 
brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included that, for these 
three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays to the 
credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing 
so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the 
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that 
time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments 
on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In this instance, it seems that Mr M didnt meet the eligibility criteria such that he 
should have been granted one of these three-month payment holidays by Capital 
One. And I say this because at the time he was granted the three-month payment 
holiday, Capital One already considered Mr Ms account to be six months in arrears 
as a result of Mr M not making any payments towards his account during the 
previous six-month arrangement following his being diagnosed with cancer.
However, in its temporary guidance published in April 2020, the FCA also explained 
that consumers who didnt meet the eligibility criteria for the three-month payment 
holidays  such as those like Mr M, who were already in arrears on their account, 
and who had therefore already incurred adverse reporting on their credit files  
should still be offered financial assistance by credit providers if they requested it and 
if it was appropriate, but that this assistance should be tailored to the individual 
circumstances of those consumers and shouldnt benefit from the suspension of 
credit file reporting that the FCA prescribed three month payment holidays benefited 
from.
This means that when Mr M approached Capital One in April 2020, rather than 
granting Mr M the three-month payment holiday that he didnt meet the eligibility 
criteria for, Capital One should have considered what alternative forms of financial 
assistance, if any, might be beneficial to Mr M at that time, with the understanding 
that any continuing financial assistance would be reported as such to the credit 
reference agencies.
It also must be noted that credit providers such as Capital One have an obligation to 
ensure that customers like Mr M dont continue to fall further and further into arrears. 
And in consideration of that point, it can be the case that the most appropriate course 
of action for a credit provider to take when a customer remains in financial difficulty 
following a period of financial assistance, and where that customers account has 
already fallen into a position of being in significant arrears, is to default the account, 
which stops further interest or charges accruing and prevents the account holder 
falling further into debt.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr M has confirmed that his financial positionremained strained up to and including November 2020, which is 15 months from 
August 2019, which was when Mr M first explained to Capital One that he was 
struggling to meet the payments required on his account.
Importantly, Capital One wouldnt be expected to have allowed Mr Ms account to fall 
fifteen months into arrears, and they wouldnt be considered as acting responsibly if 
they had done so. As such, it appears to me that it was always the case, given the 
unfortunate sequence of circumstances that Mr M faced here, that his Capital One 
account was at some point going to be a position where the ongoing arrears present 
on the account meant that the defaulting of the account by Capital One was the 
responsible and reasonable thing to do.
Taking all of these points into consideration, I feel that when Mr M contacted Capital 
One in April 2020 and explained that he was struggling to meet the repayments that 
had become due on his account following the end of his previous six month period of 
financial assistance, Capital One should have made an assessment at that time of Mr 
Ms likely capacity to make payments towards his account moving forwards and 
acted according to the results of that assessment, rather than apply a three-month 
payment holiday to Mr Ms account that he wasnt eligible to receive.
And its difficult not to conclude that the assessment that Capital One should have 
made of Mr Ms capacity to make payments towards his account in the near future 
was that Mr M most likely wouldnt be able to make such payments, from which it 
follows that I feel that Capital One should, in all reasonableness, have begun the 
process to default Mr Ms account at that time.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that I am upholding this
complaint against Capital One, albeit not in the manner which Mr M was wanting.
My provisional instructions to Capital One are that they must amend Mr Ms credit file
reporting so that the default is backdated to the point where Mr Ms initial six-month 
period of financial assistance ended in early March 2020.
I realise that this wont be what Mr M was wanting here, but as I hope Ive been able 
to explain, given the difficult circumstances that Mr M faced and his inability to make 
payments towards his account because of these difficult circumstances, I feel that it 
was always going to be the case that his account was going to default for non-
payment at some point. And by moving the date of default back to when it should 
have reasonably been first applied in early March 2020, this reduces the time that the 
default will impact Mr Ms credit file moving forwards.
I also feel that by approving Mr M for a three-month payment holiday for which he 
wasnt eligible Capital One have caused Mr M an ongoing detriment in the form of 
distress and uncertainty that Mr M shouldnt have had to endure. And while I 
appreciate that Capital One may have acted in good faith and believed they had Mr 
Ms best interests in mind by offering the three-month payment holiday, I do feel that 
Mr M should be compensated because of this. And for this reason my provisional 
instructions to Capital One also include that they should make a compensation 
payment of £300 to Mr M because of this, with the stipulation that this compensation 
payment cant be applied by Capital One to Mr Ms outstanding Capital One account 
balance unless Mr M gives his permission for Capital One to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Capital One the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision. Capital One confirmed they had no further points to raise, while Mr M didnt 
respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the same 
basis as outlined in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I 
do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Capital One must amend Mr Ms credit file reporting so that the default is backdated to the 
point where Mr Ms initial six-month period of financial assistance ended in early March 
2020.
Capital One must also make a payment of £300 to Mr M to compensate him for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused. This payment may not be applied by Capital One to 
reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Ms defaulted Capital One account unless Mr M gives 
his permission to Capital One for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint again Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman