DRN-2828480
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Ireland (BOI) made an entry about him on fraud prevention 
databases.
What happened
Mr D found out that BOI entered markers on fraud prevention databases. He complained 
and asked for these to be removed. He says a mortgage broker misrepresented him and 
filed inaccurate information on his behalf in an application made in 2019. 
BOI declined to remove the markers so Mr D brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter and initially thought that whilst BOI were right to 
make the entries, they should now be removed. Following receipt of further information, she 
concluded the entries had been fairly made and felt unable to ask for them to be removed. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage application is made, a lender will assess it and conduct relevant checks 
against the information provided and use their own lending criteria to help decide whether to 
lend. Here, BOI said it found discrepancies when assessing the application and so it decided 
to enter the markers on the fraud prevention databases. 
Ive thought carefully about whether BOI acted unfairly when it did this. Having done so, Im 
not persuaded it did as it had valid concerns about the incorrect information provided. And, 
having reviewed the information, I dont think that the decision to enter the markers was an 
unreasonable one. 
Mr D has said that the application was made on his behalf by a broker who supplied the 
incorrect information. But regardless of the source of the information, its not in dispute that it 
was inaccurate and so I dont think BOI acted unfairly when it decided to apply the markers 
on the fraud databases. And as the application was made in Mr Ds name, it follows that the 
markers would be registered against him. 
When he complained to BOI to ask for the markers to be removed, Mr D said that hes been 
unable to contact the broker and that he thinks its unfair that the markers remain registered 
against him as it wasnt him that supplied the inaccurate information. BOI further investigated 
the matter but decided not to remove the markers. 
I can appreciate Mr Ds frustrations and Ive carefully considered what hes said, and the 
information provided. Having done so, Im not persuaded that BOI made an unfair decision 
when it declined to remove these. 
And based on the information and evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say it would be fair to 
ask it to remove the markers now.
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr D but having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman