DRN-4409974
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance policy
What happened
Miss M and Mr S had home insurance with AXA. In June 2022 they made a claim after 
noticing cracks appearing in their conservatory.
AXA looked into the claim but subsequently declined it. It said the foundations of the 
conservatory were only built to a depth of 550mm. And the rest of the house had foundations 
to 1,600mm. It said building regulations that were in place at the time said the foundations 
should be at least 900mm. And, while these didnt apply to conservatories, it said that the 
builders should have taken regard of them as good practice. It said that because they didnt, 
the exclusion for faulty workmanship would apply.
Miss M and Mr S werent happy with this. They said the conservatory had been in place 
when they bought the property in 2021 and there had been no issues with it up until that 
point. So they wouldnt have known if the foundations were too shallow.
They made a complaint but AXA didnt uphold it so they brought it to this service. On 
receiving all the evidence, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said AXA had shown that the foundations of the conservatory didnt meet the building 
regulations that were applicable at the likely time of the construction. And its reasonable to 
expect the builder to take regard of these. And as they didnt, the structure wasnt suitably 
built and the exclusion would fairly apply.
Miss M and Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
On 4 October 2023 I issued a provisional decision which stated as follows:
There is some dispute about exactly when the conservatory was built, however both sides
seem to be in agreement that it was before 1996. And there is evidence from online aerial
maps that it was certainly in place in 2000. That means that the structure was in place at
least 12 years, probably over 16 years before problems arose. I therefore dont think its fair
to say the foundations were defective if theyve stood for such a period of time without issue.
AXA has said in some of its initial comments that the conservatory had been repaired
previously. However Ive seen no evidence of this in any of the photos provided or in reports
carried out by its experts. So Im not persuaded theres evidence that there were issues
before these were reported in 2022.
Further, in a more recent response to Miss M and Mr S queries, AXAs loss adjuster stated
as follows:
We do not dispute that when you made your new home purchase the home and
Conservatory were in a good state of repair with no suggestion of movement due to
subsidence or any other factors.
So this confirms that AXA agree the property hadnt suffered subsidence issues before the
claim was raised in 2022. And therefore that the structure stood for around 16 years without
issue.
The same comment went on to say:
However, in 2022 the United Kingdom experienced what is called a Subsidence Surge
Event Year. We had very little rainfall and high levels of sunshine and high temperatures.
Solely or in combination, this caused the clay soils to dry up exponentially and shrink. With
trees in proximity they have exacerbated the issue by extracting the moistures from the clay
soils. The clay soils then shrink at a far more rapid rate and unfortunately can affect
foundations.
The fact that the structure stood for around 16 years without a problem, but then was
impacted by a subsidence surge year, suggests that it was the period of unusual weather
that caused the issue and not a faulty design.
Additionally, since this service has been considering this complaint, I understand that the
cause of the subsidence has been confirmed as a leaking drain, rather than vegetation. So
while AXA has said that the foundations should have been deeper to take account of nearby
vegetation, the cause is confirmed as one that couldnt have been foreseen or accounted for
in the design of the structure. And theres no evidence to show that if the foundations had
been built to 900mm that the structure would have avoided suffering subsidence due to the
leaking drain.
For these reasons, I dont think AXA has done enough to show that the exclusion would
fairly apply. I am therefore minded to direct AXA to accept Miss M and Mr S claim for
subsidence and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions without
applying the exclusion for faulty design.
Miss M and Mrs S have had to spend some time trying to prove their claim was unfairly
declined, and this has caused them some distress and inconvenience. So Im also minded to
ask AXA to pay £100 compensation to apologise for this.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Ms M and Mr S and Axa responded to say they had nothing further to add in response 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have added nothing further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
the outcome outlined in my provisional decision for the reasons Ive described.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss M and Mr S complaint and require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to:
Accept their claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions without applying the exclusion for faulty design.
Pay them £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman