DRN-4127073
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card application and later increased the credit limit on several occasions.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr C applied for an Aqua credit card in November 2018. In the application, Mr C said he was 
employed with an income of £26,000. The application recorded that there was other 
household income of £1,171 a month. Aqua carried out a credit search and found around 
£2,900 of other unsecured debt in Mr Cs name with no arrears. Aqua found two defaults and 
a county court judgement in Mr Cs name. The application was approved with a credit limit of 
£300.
Mr C used the account and, within the first month, borrowed to the credit limit. In February 
2020 Aqua increased the credit limit to £1,050. The credit limit increased to £2,505 in 
September 2020 then to £2,150 in May 2021.
In August 2021 Aqua approved a three month payment holiday. And in May 2022 Mr C 
completed an income and expenditure assessment with Aqua after asking to agree a 
payment arrangement. Aqua says the information available showed Mr C was able to make 
his contractual monthly payment, so no arrangement was agreed.
Mr C complained to Aqua that it had lent irresponsibly and failed to offer reasonable 
assistance while he was in financial difficulties. Aqua sent Mr C a final response in May 2022 
but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly or treated Mr C unfairly.
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Cs complaint. They werent persuaded that Aqua 
had completed proportionate checks before increasing Mr Cs credit limit above £300. The 
investigator asked Aqua to refund all interest and charges applied over balances of £300 
from February 2020 onwards. Aqua didnt accept and asked to appeal so Mr Cs complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and Ive taken 
the step of issuing a provisional decision as whilst Ive reached broadly the same outcome 
as the investigator, Ive done so for different reasons. In addition, Ive also used a different 
method to arrive at a fair settlement. As my decision has been made for different reasons to 
the investigator, Im giving both parties a chance to respond before I make my final decision.
Our website sets out how we handle complaints relating to irresponsible lending. Ive 
assessed Mr Cs complaint in line with our approach. Having considered all the available 
information, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Aqua needed to ensure it lent responsibly. That means Aqua needed to complete 
proportionate checks to understand whether Mr C could afford to repay any credit it 
provided. Generally, our approach is that its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
The longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable 
and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show 
that it had continued to carry out proportionate checks to ensure it lent in a responsible 
manner.
Looking at Mr Cs case, I can see Aqua took details of his income and circumstances as well 
as completed a credit check when the application was approved. The initial credit limit it 
approved was £300 which is reasonably modest. I note Aqua found around £2,900 of 
unsecured credit. And whilst it found some adverse credit, it wasnt recent and fell within 
Aquas lending criteria. In my view, the information obtained and checks Aqua completed 
were reasonable and proportionate when Mr C applied. I havent been persuaded Aqua lent 
irresponsibly when it approved a credit card with a £300 limit.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that Aqua completed proportionate checks when it 
increased the credit limit from £300 to £1,050 in February 2020. Whilst the amount of the 
increase was £750, it was over three times the original credit limit Aqua approved. In 
addition, Mr Cs unsecured borrowing figures had increased from £2,900 when he applied in 
2018 to around £6,000 at the point the credit limit was increased. Thats a substantial 
increase in Mr Cs borrowing in a reasonably short period of time. I also note Mr Cs balance 
exceeded the credit limit around three months before the increase was approved and that a 
payday loan had been opened around two months earlier. All these points indicate Mr C 
mayve become reliant on credit to make ends meet and shouldve caused Aqua to carry out 
more comprehensive checks before deciding to increase the credit limit.
In order to get a picture of what Aqua wouldve seen if it had carried out better checks we 
asked representatives acting for Mr C to send us bank statements showing his income and 
regular outgoings. But Mr Cs confirmed he doesnt have bank statements going back to the 
period before Aqua increased the credit limit in February 2020. However, weve got bank 
statements that start in February 2020 which is the month Aqua increased Mr Cs credit limit. 
Whilst the bank statement doesnt cover the period immediately before the credit limit 
increase, it does show Mr Cs income and outgoings immediately afterwards. And Im 
satisfied its likely the statements show a similar level of activity as the ones covering the 
period immediately before Aqua increased the credit limit in February 2020.
Ive reviewed the bank statements and whilst they dont show a high level of outgoings for 
living expenses, they do show evidence of online gambling most days. In my view, the bank 
statements show Mr C was using his account to gamble in a way that wasnt sustainable in 
the long term. I think the level and frequency of the gambling transactions was such that Im 
not persuaded Aqua have approved further borrowing if it had carried out better checks. Im 
satisfied that Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increase to £1,050 in 
February 2020.
Aqua increased the credit limit to £2,050 in September 2020. By this point, Mr Cs unsecured 
credit had increased further to around £7,150. The credit limit was doubling from £1,050 to 
£2,050. And I note Mr C was charged for being over the credit limit the month before the new 
credit limit was put in place. Again, I think the above points shouldve caused Aqua to 
carefully consider whether further borrowing was affordable for Mr C by completing better 
checks.Ive seen bank statements for the months preceding the credit limit increase to £2,050. The 
bank statements continue to show daily gambling transactions. To me it appears Mr C was, 
at this point, using credit to sustain his outgoings  including the gambling transactions. 
Taken with the increase in Mr Cs other unsecured credit, I think Aqua wouldve declined 
further borrowing if it had carried out more comprehensive checks like looking at his bank 
statements. In my view, Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Cs credit limit increase 
to £2,050.
Aqua went on to increase the credit limit to £2,150 in May 2021. Aquas told us Mr C 
requested this increase. But Aqua was still obliged to ensure it lent in a responsible way. 
Aquas affordability data shows after it increased the credit limit to £2,050 in September 
2020 Mr Cs balance was consistently over the agreed limit. Mr C incurred overlimit fees 
during this period. Given Mr Cs balance was over the £2,050 credit limit for seven months 
prior to the increase to £2,150 I think Aqua shouldve considered whether further borrowing 
was sustainable. I also note that by this point Mr Cs other unsecured credit had increased to 
around £11,300. Again, I think the increase in unsecured borrowing since Mr C opened the 
Aqua credit card shouldve caused it to carry out more comprehensive checks before 
offering further borrowing.
In line with the other bank statements Ive seen for Mr C, there were daily instances of 
gambling showing on his bank statements. And I think this, in addition to the other points Ive 
noted above, wouldve shown Aqua that Mr C was unlikely to be in a position to sustainably 
repay further borrowing. So whilst I accept Mr C mayve requested the credit limit increase to 
£2,150, my view is that Aqua was still obliged to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks. And Im satisfied that, had it done so, Aqua wouldnt have approved the final credit 
limit increase to £2,150.
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly from the point it increased Mr Cs credit limit to £1,050, I 
intend to tell it to refund all interest, fees and charges applied on balances over £300 from 
February 2020 to date. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr Cs representatives responded to confirm he 
had nothing further to add. Aqua responded to confirm the refund amount due to Mr C if he 
accepts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle as follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees and charges applied to balances 
above £300 from February 2020 to date
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr C along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after February 2020 regarding this account from Mr Cs credit file
- Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the remaining amount. Once Mr C has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after February 
2020 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs may require NewDay to take off tax from this interest. If it does, 
NewDay must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he should ask for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman