DRN-2864811
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Mi Vehicle 
Finance Limited (MIVF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr O acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase agreement with 
MIVF. The car was eight years old and had a mileage of around 66,400.
Mr O says that in around December 2017 the car started to develop problems when put into 
reverse and warning lights would illuminate on the dashboard. He says he returned it to the 
supplying dealer who was unable to find anything wrong with the car.
Mr O says the issues with the car continued and so in April 2018 he took the car to have a 
diagnostic undertaken at a manufacturers approved garage. He was informed the car 
required a new ECU mechatronic unit and that the repairs would cost around £3,000. Mr O 
says he complained to MIVF, but it said this was a service issue. Mr O paid for repairs to 
both the mechatronic unit and later the gearbox.
Mr O says that these repairs didnt sort the issue with the car, and it started to lose power. 
So, in early 2019 Mr O took the car to another garage for further diagnostics to be carried 
out. Issues with the camshaft and crankshaft sensors were found as well as a fault with the 
turbo pressure. Mr O had further repairs carried out at a different garage but decided to take 
the car back to the garage that had carried out the diagnostic for the repair to the turbo. This 
repair was carried out in July 2020.
Mr O complained to MIVF about the quality of the car, MIVF didnt uphold his complaint. It 
said there wasnt enough evidence to say the car had had faults at the point of supply as Mr 
O had now had the car for three years and had driven 63,800 miles in it during that time. 
MIVF said the faults that had been found with the car were due to wear and tear through 
use.
Mr O was unhappy at MIVFs response and made a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied the 
problems experienced by Mr O with the car were due to a reasonable level of wear and tear 
and that the car had been of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr O disagreed with the view of our investigator and the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. 
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr O is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MIVF is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car was eight-years old, and with a mileage of 66,400. And I think that, taking into 
account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to be issues with 
maintenance and repair after a reasonable period of time, as components of the car would 
have been subjected to some wear and tear through use. 
Although Mr O says he had issues with the car around two months after acquiring it Ive 
seen the supplying dealer wasnt able to find any fault with it. It was in April 2018 that faults 
were found with the mechatronic unit and Mr O arranged repairs to that and the gearbox. 
Faults with mechatronic units can arise for a number of reasons, and I think its fair that I 
consider the age and use of the car when this problem arose. 
Ive only seen have the cars repair invoices which dont provide any causes for the faults 
that were found with the car. Ive also seen that the cars mileage isnt always included on 
these invoices, but I do know the car had a mileage of 89,770 when it had an MOT 
undertaken in October 2018. This means Mr O was able to drive the car over 23,000 miles in 
12 months. 
In light of the age of the car, the length of time Mr O had the car and the mileage undertaken 
by him since the point of supply, I dont think I can reasonably say that wear and tear from 
the use of the car wasnt the cause of these repairs. I also dont think its likely that if the car 
had been supplied with faults, either present or developing, in respect of the mechatronic 
unit or the gearbox, that Mr O would have been able to use it as much as he had in the 
months leading up to these repairs.
Mr O says these repairs didnt fix the cars issues and so in early 2019 he took the car to 
another garage where faults with the camshaft sensor and crankshaft sensor and turbo 
pressure faults were diagnosed. These are all items that are subject to wear and tear. Mr O 
took the car to another garage for the sensors to be looked at but returned to the garage that 
had diagnosed the turbo issue in July 2020 for the repair work to the turbo to be completed. 
Ive seen that this repairing garage has provided a statement which says that in its opinion 
the turbo had been poorly repaired prior to the time Mr O purchased the car. However, this 
repair wasnt carried out until July 2020 by which time the mileage was 121,300. The garage 
says it has based its opinion on the timeline of events given by Mr O and the number of 
miles driven. But turbos do wear out and Mr O had been able to drive at least an additional 
30,000 miles from the time the turbo repair appears to have been recommended until it was 
actually fixed and over 54,000 miles since the car had been supplied.
Im afraid I am not persuaded by the evidence of the repairing garage that the fault with the 
turbo had been present from the point of supply. I think if there had been an issue with the turbo in 2017 then Mr O wouldnt have been able to drive the car as much as he has before 
it would need urgent repairs. Ive also seen the car passed its MOT in October 2018 and so 
was found roadworthy. 
While I accept the car has required a number of repairs over the time Mr O has had the car 
in his possession, I dont think I have enough evidence to say the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
Ive also seen that the first repairs were carried out after Mr O had had the car in his 
possession for around six months. I think due to the cars age and mileage that a reasonable 
person would have expected repairs and maintenance issues to arise after some use of the 
car. And I dont think the car requiring repairs at the point that it did means I can reasonably 
say it wasnt durable. Wear and tear of the components was to be expected.
So, looking at the evidence thats been supplied, Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr O, 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman