DRN-4100021
The complaint
Mr G complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Churchill Insurance, 
dealt with a claim for a damaged windscreen under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs windscreen was damaged by a stone getting caught under the windscreen wiper. 
When the windscreen wiper was turned on it scratched the glass across the drivers side of 
the windscreen. Mr G therefore claimed on his policy with UKI for the damage to his 
windscreen. 
UKI initially accepted the claim but then later turned it down under the windscreen section of 
his policy. UKI said as the windscreen wasnt broken then it wasnt covered under the 
windscreen damage section. However UKI said Mr G could make a claim under the 
accidental damage section which would affect his no claims discount and incur a larger 
excess of £250. Unhappy with UKIs decision Mr G complained. 
UKI reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It agreed that it hadnt handled the claim 
well and had been unclear about accepting the claim initially but stood by its position not to 
cover it under the windscreen damage section. UKI offered Mr G £100 compensation for 
the poor claim handling. Unhappy with UKIs response Mr G brought his complaint here. He 
said the policy didnt define broken and as his car would fail an MOT because of the 
damage windscreen he thought it should be covered. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought while 
the policy said it would repair or replace broken glass, the fair and reasonable outcome 
would be to deem Mr Gs windscreen broken as it needed replacing. He therefore 
recommended UKI pay Mr Gs claim under the windscreen damage section of the policy. 
UKI didnt agree, it said the policy wasnt a maintenance contract and as the glass wasnt 
broken it had acted fairly by saying it would be covered under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. 
As UKI didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy list different sections of cover. For the section 
titled windscreen damage it says: Well help put things right if the glass in your car is 
damaged. Its not in dispute that Mr Gs windscreen is damaged and therefore Im satisfied 
it would fall within this section. The policy then goes onto say what UKI will do and says: 
Well: Replace or repair broken glass in your windscreen, sunroof or windows of your car.
The policy doesnt define broken and UKI has said the word broken is similar to smashed, 
shattered or burst, but not scratched. Ive considered this but Im not persuaded this means 
Mr Gs claim isnt covered under this section of the policy. I say that because it would be fair 
and reasonable for something to be broken when it needs replacing if its damaged. Mr G 
has provided an e-mail from the company who replaced his windscreen which explained as 
the scratch was across the drivers side of the windscreen then his car wouldnt pass an 
MOT due to the damage. 
Therefore, Mr Gs windscreen needed replacing, and while I understand its not been 
cracked or chipped, the fair and reasonable application of this term, in this particular case, in 
my opinion would be to deem the glass as broken and would therefore be covered by the 
policy. As Im satisfied UKI hasnt acted fairly and reasonably when applying this term, Ive 
looked at the impact this has had on Mr G. 
Mr G said he paid £810 for a new windscreen for his car. If UKI had dealt with the claim 
under the windscreen damage section of the policy, Mr G would only have paid the £75 
excess for this and wouldnt have his no claims discount affected. So to put things right UKI 
should pay Mr G what he paid for the repair, minus the policy excess and record this as a 
claim under the windscreen damage section of the policy. This is subject to Mr G providing 
UKI evidence of what he paid. 
Ive also considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr G has had due to UKIs 
poor claim handling. Im satisfied the £100 for distress and inconvenience it offered is fair 
and reasonable and so UKI also needs to pay this if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance, to:
1. Pay Mr G what he paid for his windscreen replacement, minus the £75 policy excess. 
Subject to Mr G providing UKI evidence of what he paid. 
2. Record the claim as being dealt with under the windscreen damage section of the 
policy
3. Pay Mr G £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman