DRN-3188984
The complaint
Mrs B, represented by Mr B, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
voided her home insurance policy and is now looking to recover money paid to settle a 
claim. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
- Mrs B bought a home insurance policy in June 2018 with RSA.
- When asked if she had made a claim in the last three years, Mrs B noted one claim 
of £1,500 in September 2017 for an escape of water.
- In September 2018, Mrs B made a claim for fire damage which resulted in a cash 
settlement and services worth over £8,000. 
- But in June 2020, RSA identified that claims made by Mrs B (or any person living 
with her) between September 2017 and May 2018 had totalled over £16,000. So the 
policy commencing June 2018 was declared void as, had RSA known thered been a 
claim exceeding £10,000 within the last three years, it would have declined cover.
- RSA is now seeking reimbursement of the ~£8,000.
- Mrs B feels strongly that this is unfair as she didnt know the total value of the claim 
and said she was never notified of it. 
- Our investigator considered this complaint. She felt thered been a qualifying 
misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). And as the misrepresentation was said to be careless (as 
opposed to deliberate or reckless), she didnt think RSA had acted unfairly in voiding 
the policy, declining the claim and refunding the premiums paid. Nor did she think it 
was unfair in seeking reimbursement of the sums paid out. 
- Mrs B remained unhappy so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
Looking through the documentation Mrs B was provided with after taking out the policy, I can 
see that she was asked to read through them to check her details were correct and that the 
cover suited her needs. I also note that the schedule, which outlines the declared claims, 
said This is a copy of the information you gave us  your home insurance policy is based on 
it. Please check the details shown are accurate So Im persuaded that RSA gave a clear 
indication that it was important the information provided needed to be accurate.
CIDRA says:
an insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by the 
consumer before a consumer insurance contract was entered into or varied only if-
(a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty set out in 
section 2(2), and
(b) the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation, that insurer would not 
have entered into the contract or would have done so only on different 
terms. 
Section 2(2) says:
it is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer.
So Ive first thought about whether Mrs B made a misrepresentation in breach of the duty set 
out in section 2(2). Mrs B stated only one claim worth £1,500 had been made in the last 
three years. Thered been some disagreement over whether a claim made was a new one or 
a continuation of a previous claim. It appears to me that this was treated as being two claims 
and I think Mrs B was aware of this. So this indicates that declaring just one claim in the last 
three years was inaccurate and was something that should at least have been checked if 
there was any doubt. 
But, if we move past the issue of whether it was one claim or two, the total claim(s) in the 
three years prior to taking out the policy amounted to over £16,000  substantially more than 
£1,500. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs B has said. She wasnt notified of the total cost. She 
also thinks some of the responsibility falls onto RSA as she says it couldve accessed this 
information. I appreciate that Mrs B might not have been notified of the total cost. But, when 
posed with a question asking how many claims had been made in the three years prior and 
the amounts involved, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable to have contacted RSA to 
let it know she didnt know the total claim amount and/or to try to find out. Its the duty of the 
insured to provide accurate information when asked a clear question. Insurers ask about 
previous claims as a means of determining the risk involved, so it assessed the risk on the 
basis of incorrect information  one claim worth £1,500. 
So Im satisfied the misrepresentation was made in breach of the duty of reasonable care.  
Moving on to the next part, RSA has said, and Ive seen evidence to confirm, that it wouldnt 
have agreed to provide cover to Mrs B had it been aware of a water damage claim 
exceeding £10,000. Had the situation been presented accurately, the insurer wouldnt have 
entered into the contract. This means the insurer has a remedy against the consumer. 
Under CIDRA, a qualifying misrepresentation can be either deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. It would be considered deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew it was untrue or 
misleading or didnt care whether or not it was untrue or misleading. And its considered 
careless if it wasnt deliberate or reckless. RSA has accepted this to be a careless 
misrepresentation. And, as it has shown it wouldnt have entered into the consumer contract, 
its allowed to avoid the contract and refuse all claims but return the premiums paid  which 
is what its decided to do here. 
Based on the above, there wasnt a valid contract of insurance in place at the time of the 
claim costing over £8,000. So RSA has asked Mrs B to reimburse the payments it made. I 
dont consider this to be unfair, for the reasons Ive already given  it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask RSA to provide cover for an event when it wouldnt have agreed to take 
on the risk if Mrs B hadnt made a qualifying misrepresentation.  
For completeness, I note that Mrs B has pointed out that RSAs earlier communication 
suggested she hadnt declared any claims. But this was later rectified and doesnt change 
that a misrepresentation was made. 
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman