DRN-4367409
The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account without notice. She says 
she should have been provided notice and a reason. She would like compensation.
What happened
I am aware that Miss N has another case with our service regarding the block of her current 
account which will be dealt with separately.
Miss N is also unhappy with the closure of her currency account. I understand that Miss N is 
raising this as a formal complaint with Barclays and will come back to our service if she is 
unhappy with Barclays Final response.
The facts which led to Miss N bringing this complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here.
Miss N had a current account with Barclays. Following a review of the current account, 
Barclays decided to close the account with immediate effect. They wrote to Miss N on 
30 September 2022 to let her know of the immediate closure. Miss N was able to collect her 
funds in branch on 13 October 2022.
Miss N says she should have been given notice and a reason for the closure. She wants 
interest on her funds for the period of time she was without these funds and £5,000 
compensation. She also missed out on a payment for switching her bank account. This was 
£400.
Barclays looked into the complaint. They thought Miss F should have been given 60 days 
notice to close. They offered £300 for their error as they recognised the immediate closure 
had an effect on Miss Ns ability to use her account and access her funds. They recognised 
she had been given incorrect information and had to go into branch to get her money more 
than once. Miss N didnt accept £300, she thought £5,000 more accurately represented the 
inconvenience she had been caused.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She thought Barclays should have given Miss N 60 
days notice to close. She was satisfied the offer of £300 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. She thought Barclays should pay 8% interest from the time it closed the 
account on 30 September 2022 until Miss N had access to her funds.
She said she wasnt able to look at the issue around the payment Miss N missed because of 
not being able to switch her account, as Miss N hadnt raised it as a complaint with Barclays.
Miss N was unhappy with the view. She thought she should receive interest from the time 
the account was blocked on 9 September 2022. She didnt think the amount of 
compensation was enough for the inconvenience and upset she had endured.
The investigator said the block had been fair and so no compensation had been awarded in 
respect of the block. She was only dealing with the closure of the current account in this 
complaint.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Miss N 
and Barclays have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed. Banks should, however, give reasonable 
notice before closing an account.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Miss Ns account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account. The terms and conditions outline that the bank can 
close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain circumstances they can 
close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed Miss Ns account immediately. 
Barclays have accepted they ought to have given Miss N 60 days notice to close her 
account.  Ive considered if Barclays acted fairly in closing the account, having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And 
it was entitled to close the account as its already done. 
Miss N has said she wants to know the reasons why Barclays closed her account. Whilst 
Miss N mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. Barclays isnt 
required to give her a specific reason. And I can understand Miss Ns frustration that she 
hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But Barclays is under no obligation to provide 
this information to her, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say Barclays have done 
anything wrong by not giving Miss N this information. 
Impact 
Miss N has requested compensation for the closure of the account. Barclays have agreed 
they made an error and should have given Miss N 60 days notice to close the account. They 
agreed she had been given the wrong information on a number of occasions and Miss N had 
gone into branch a few times to collect her money, but this wasnt available until 13 October 
2022. In recognition of these errors Barclays offered Miss N £300 compensation. Miss N has said she would like more compensation and has suggested £5,000.
The investigator has recommended that Barclays pay Miss N £300 for closing her account 
without notice. Ive considered what Miss N has said about how Barclays actions impacted 
her. Ive no doubt this was a shock to her. And I can see she spent time contacting Barclays 
trying to find out what had happened. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient 
for her. And its only right that Barclays recognises this as well as the wrong information it 
gave Miss N. However, Im satisfied that £300 is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Miss N was caused. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive kept in mind that Barclays were always entitled to close the 
account giving Miss N 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied that £300 compensation recognises 
the impact Barclays actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Barclays caused delay in returning Miss Ns funds to her after the account 
was closed. In recognition that she was deprived of her funds for longer than she should 
have been Barclays should pay Miss N 8% interest on the fuds in her account from 30 
September 2022 when her account was closed until she received her funds.
Miss N has said she would have switched her account had Barclays not closed it with 
immediate effect. And as a result of Barclays error, she lost £400. I appreciate Miss N feels 
strongly about this but as she hasnt raised this with Barclays, and they havent had an 
opportunity to look into this I cannot deal with this as part of this complaint. Miss N should 
therefore raise this as a complaint with Barclays and allow them the opportunity to 
investigate. If she is unhappy with their final response, she will be entitled to bring the 
complaint to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold the complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Miss N 
£300 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her.
8% interest on the balance in her account from 30 September 2022 to 13 October 
2022 as compensation for being deprived of her funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman