DRN-3044218
The complaint
Mr O, through his representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL), lent to
him when he could not afford it.
What happened
Using the loan application forms Mr O completed and the information STFL has given us,
here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Approval date Amount 16 week Terms 
Repayment / week 
(weeks open)Repaid
1 30 November 2016 £100 £10/wk. (11) 12 February 2017
2 5 May 2017 £200 £20/wk. (13) 1 August 2017
3 9 August 2017 £300 £30/wk. (4) 3 September 2017
4 4 October 2017 £200 £20/wk. (10) 15 December 2017
5 27 December 2017 £300 £30/wk. (13) 28 March 2018
6 28 March 2018 £400 £40/wk. (14) 5 July 2018
7 30 August 2018 £500 £50/wk. (15) 11 December 2018
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and felt that by loan 5 STFL ought to have 
been carrying out more in-depth checks than she felt it had been doing. But as she had no 
comprehensive evidence about Mr Os finances for that period to enable her to look at that 
detail, then she was not able to come to a view on it. But she did feel that by loan 6, STFL 
ought to have realised that Mr O was not able to repay the loans sustainably.
STFL disagreed. Mr O did not respond. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
on 5 October 2021 in which I gave reasons as to why I was planning not to uphold Mr Os 
complaint. I invited both parties to respond with additional comments and/or evidence by 
19 October 2021. 
That provisional decision is set out in the next section for ease of reading. It is in smaller 
type-face to differentiate it from this final determination and forms part of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about high-cost credit lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulatory body and it issued the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) in which sustainable is defined as being the ability to repay 
without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
My provisional decision dated 5 October 2021
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Os complaint
Mr O has not responded to our adjudicators view and so I take it from that, the issue surrounding 
loans 1 to 5 are not disputed. But, after receiving this provisional decision, if additional evidence is 
sent in then I can review those loans 1 to 5. But I am not planning to do that here.
My provisional decision in relation to loans 6 and 7 is that I am planning not to uphold Mr Os 
complaint about them. I do not agree that there is evidence of repeat lending. Reviewing the then 
I can see that Mr O often re were periods when he did not borrow from STFL at all.
The loans were consecutive (there were no overlapping loans) and the principal sums borrowed did 
increase but not significantly.
So, by the time Mr O applied for loan 6, I appreciate that he had been a customer of STFL
for about 16 months but he had not been indebted to them all that time (in debt for 51 weeks
over a 69 week period).I do not have the evidence to be satisfied that Mr O was in a position where he was reliant on the 
credit from STFL and was unable to repay them in a sustainable way. I am not persuaded that was 
the situation. In addition, there was a gap in borrowing after loan 6: Mr O repaid loan 6 early on 
5 July 2018, and then he applied for loan 7 almost two months later. This is a further indication to me 
that Mr O was not overly reliant on the credit from STFL.
On current evidence, I do not plan to uphold Mr Os complaint.
My final decision findings 
Mr Os professional representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and 
informed us it had forwarded it to Mr O. That was on 7 October 2021. Since then we have 
not received anything from them.
STFL has acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision.
As neither party has sent any additional comments or any further evidence for me to 
consider, then I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set 
out in that provisional decision, duplicated here, then my decision is that I do not uphold 
Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman