The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave them incorrect 
information about their mortgage balance. Theyve also said that RBS has incorrectly 
reported adverse information about their mortgage account to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs U took out a mortgage with RBS in August 2003. They received a mortgage 
statement in August 2017, which they say didnt suggest there were outstanding payments 
on their mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs U say when they tried to re-mortgage, they found it difficult as there was adverse 
information recorded against their RBS mortgage.
Mr and Mrs U contacted RBS about this in March 2019. RBS said it couldnt see that any 
missed payments were showing on the account from March to June 2017 and asked Mr and 
Mrs U to send a copy of their credit file which they did. RBS told Mr and Mrs U that it will 
escalate their concerns to its credit data amendment team for review and get back in touch 
with them.
Mr and Mrs U didnt hear back from RBS and so they contacted RBS again in June 2019 
and raised a complaint. In response RBS acknowledged that it had given Mr and Mrs U 
misleading information and that they had missed a mortgage payment in January 2017, and 
they should have been told this sooner. RBS acknowledged that aside from the missed 
payment in January 2017, Mr and Mrs U had made all other payments due on the mortgage 
RBS removed the adverse information reported on the account for March, April, May and 
June 2017 as it says it shouldnt have reported adverse information for these months.
Mr and Mrs U then referred their complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of 
our investigators. Our investigator agreed that RBS had sent letters to Mr and Mrs U about 
the outstanding payment for January 2017 but thought that when Mr and Mrs U had called 
RBS it had given them incorrect information and it had reported adverse information about 
their account for August  November 2017. Our investigator thought that RBS should pay
Mr and Mrs U £200 for the trouble and upset caused and remove the adverse information 
recorded from August  November 2017. RBS disagreed saying it had correctly reported the 
arrears for January 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1493691From the information provided, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs U missed a mortgage payment 
in January 2017. Mr U has confirmed that he made this outstanding payment in January 
2020. RBS has provided a breakdown of payments made towards the mortgage account and 
it is clear that the payment for January 2017 wasnt paid at the time it was due. RBS has 
also provided information to show that it sent Mr and Mrs U letters in June 2017 asking for 
payments of the arrears.
And while it isnt in dispute that when Mr and Mrs U called RBS in March and April 2019, 
they were given incorrect information about their mortgage not being arrears, Im also 
mindful that on the other hand, they had received previous communication saying they had 
missed a payment in January 2017.
So, although RBS gave incorrect information over the phone and in the mortgage statement, 
it had previously given correct information on the issue. But seeing as the more recent 
information was incorrect, it wasnt unreasonable for Mr and Mrs U to rely on it as being the 
most up to date. Id have expected RBS to have been consistent with its message about the 
arrears.
The fact is that the payment hadnt been made, and I agree with RBS that the adverse 
information about the missed payment for January 2017 is correctly recorded. However,
Mr U has provided a copy of his credit file and I can see that RBS has also sent us the 
information it reported on Mr and Mrs Us credit files. While I expected to see the adverse 
information recorded for January 2017, I can also see that RBS has also reported adverse 
information for August  November 2017  suggesting that Mr and Mrs U missed payments 
in those months.
Im unable to reconcile this adverse information for August  November 2017 with any 
missed payments during those months. Also, in its final response says that Mr and Mrs U 
had made all other payments. And so, it follows that adverse information for August  
November 2017 shouldnt be recorded as Mr and Mrs U have made the mortgage payments 
for those months. I note that RBS hasnt offered any explanation about why the information 
is recorded for August  November 2017. 
RBS had reported the late payment for January 2017 and from what I can see was the only 
payment outstanding on Mr and Mrs Us mortgage. But it had reported adverse information 
from March  June 2017 and August  November 2017. RBS acknowledges adverse 
information for March  June 2017 shouldnt have been recorded and has removed that 
adverse information. However, the adverse information for August  November 2017 hasnt 
been removed and I think RBS needs to be consistent with its reporting. If it acknowledges 
an error in its reporting for March  June 2017, then the same should apply for August  
November 2017. 
Mr and Mrs U have said that chasing RBS for a response  after it said it would contact
them but didnt - has caused trouble and upset. Mr and Mrs U have said the adverse 
information has also made it difficult for them to get credit elsewhere. 
Given the circumstances, I think RBS was correct to report the missed payment for January 
2017. But it has also reported the adverse information from August  November 2017 
incorrectly and as a result of RBS error, Mr and Mrs U have suffered trouble and upset.
Putting things right
To put things right, RBS should remove the adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Us 
account from August  November 2017 and should pay £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs U.My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Us complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to put things 
right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman