DRN-3951997
The complaint
Miss E says HSBC UK Bank Plc treated her unfairly when reporting information about her 
loan to credit reference agencies (CRA). 
What happened
Miss E held a loan with HSBC which was taken out in June 2019. Miss Es monthly 
repayments were £409.45.
In line with regulatory guidance, HSBC provided Miss E with a three-month payment holiday 
in June 2020. This was due to the ongoing impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Miss E did not 
make payments for three months and no adverse date was reported to CRAs. The amounts 
due were instead added onto the loan. 
Miss E was due to restart repayments in September 2020  but by November 2020 Miss E 
was struggling to make the repayments. HSBC asked for Miss E to complete an income and 
expenditure form so it could assess her financial situation. Following this HSBC placed 
Miss E on a reduced payment arrangement. This arrangement meant Miss E would need to 
pay £200 a month towards the loan from December 2020 onwards. In February 2021 Miss E 
explained to HSBC that she needed to extend the reduced payment arrangement as she 
was unable to pay more than £200 a month. 
In June 2021 HSBC asked Miss E to get in touch as the reduced payments were often late. 
Miss E also had other standing orders and direct debits on her account which came back 
returned due to a lack of funds. Throughout July and August 2021 HSBC and Miss E 
attempted to agree a way forward for the loan account. Miss E says an agreement had been 
reached to continue with the £200 reduced payment arrangement, however HSBC explained 
that this needed to be reviewed due to the arrears on the account. Miss E raised a formal 
complaint about the poor communication and service in August 2021. 
HSBC reviewed Miss Es concerns and £50 was paid in compensation to recognise service 
issues. After this HSBC sent Miss E numerous letters regarding the status of her account  
throughout this period payments werent consistently made towards the loan account and no 
formal repayment plan had been agreed. However, Miss E contacted HSBC about her credit 
file and during phone calls it was agreed some entries to her credit file would be amended. 
By the end of March 2022 Miss Es account was £2,537.51 in arrears. Miss E cleared these 
arrears towards the end of April 2022. 
Miss E raised another complaint about HSBCs handling of her loan account and the 
negative entries made onto her credit report. Miss E says these entries resulted in the 
purchase of a property falling through. 
HSBC sent multiple responses to the issues Miss E raised  overall these acknowledged 
there were times when clearer communication was needed from HSBC. £80 was paid in 
recognition of this, with a further £100 offered to Miss E. HSBC also explained that it had 
amended Miss Es credit file on a number of occasions  but highlighted these were not 
necessary as Miss Es account had arrears on and payments had been missed. 
Our investigator looked at all of the available evidence and found HSBC had acted fairly. 
Ultimately, they found HSBC during the course of this complaint had provided Miss E with 
the opportunity to discuss her repayment options and find a way forward. They found the 
credit file entries were accurate, and the amendments HSBC made were fair, especially 
given they were not strictly necessary as the account was in arrears. Miss E remained 
unhappy with this review and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the issues Miss E has experienced with her account. I can see the Covid 
pandemic had a significant impact on her finances and Miss E has faced issues maintaining 
her loan repayments. I appreciate this has been a stressful and worrying time for Miss E. Ive 
given careful thought to whether HSBC treated Miss E and her account fairly and whether it 
took the necessary steps in relation to Miss Es credit file.  
Firstly, I think its important to clarify that its not in dispute that Miss E was struggling to 
make her contractual loan repayments and she asked HSBC for support. And Im satisfied 
that Miss E got the support she needed. HSBC offered Miss E a payment holiday for three 
months. This was in keeping with the Covid-19 guidance issued to lenders. Miss E was then 
moved to a reduced repayment plan. Generally, businesses have an obligation to treat 
customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
says that businesses like HSBC should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were reasonable at this stage and in 
line with regulatory guidance at the time for customers facing financial difficultly.
Miss Es main concern is the reporting HSBC carried out and the impact this has had on her 
credit file. Miss E says she was not informed that agreeing to enter a reduced repayment 
plan would impact her credit file. I can see Miss E had a three-month payment holiday and 
this was not recorded on her credit file. However, following this Miss Es reduced payment 
plan was recorded on her credit file alongside any subsequent missed or late payments. 
HSBC says this was explained during a phone call with Miss E in November 2020. I havent 
listened to this call, but I have seen the letters sent to Miss E. These letters ask Miss E to get 
in touch and explain the consequences of her not being able to repay the overdue amount, 
which includes reporting to CRAs. 
Miss E says in July 2021 she agreed to start repaying the contractual amount due under her 
loan. However, the arrears that had built up had not been cleared and a repayment plan for 
this needed to be agreed  this was a separate issue and it doesnt seem that this was 
always clear when Miss E was in touch with HSBC. There were a number of calls between 
HSBC and Miss E about this in July and August 2021 and Miss E raised a complaint about 
the unclear communication she received. HSBC paid Miss E £50 as an apology and agreed 
to amend Miss Es credit file for any recent missed payments as a result of the confusion. 
I have also considered HSBCs decision to remove some adverse entries from Miss Es 
credit file. The correct reporting of a customers account is an important regulatory 
requirement. I can see that Miss E has had negative credit file entries removed for 
November 2020, May 2021 and June 2021. I have considered these, and I dont think HSBC 
needed to remove them as they appear to be an accurate reflection of her account. I 
appreciate HSBC has removed some of these entries in an attempt to resolve Miss Es 
complaint, however they were fairly added to her file. Miss E says the amendments HSBC has made dont go far enough. In particular Miss E 
says she cleared the arrears for the loan at the end of April 2022 and she was told this would 
remove any negative entries on her file. I think HSBCs communication with Miss E couldve 
been clearer here  there were multiple emails and calls about amending the credit file, and 
eventually it was established that there would be no negative entry for May 2022 as Miss E 
had cleared the arrears. I can see HSBC paid Miss E £30 and offered another £100 in 
recognition of its shortcomings at this point. Miss Es credit file would still show any missed 
payments, but the arrears would show as settled going forward due to her payment. This 
means there would still be some reporting on her credit file about historical missed payments 
and arrears. Ultimately, HSBC is obliged to provide accurate information to CRAs so I wont 
be asking it to make any further amendments. 
It is clear Miss E would like HSBC to remove the adverse information that is recorded on her 
credit file. Ultimately, while Miss E did make some payments towards her loan and 
eventually cleared her arrears, Miss E didnt pay enough to meet her monthly contractual 
repayments. I appreciate Miss E says this has had a negative impact on her, and a property 
purchase has fallen through as a result of negative credit file entries. I am sorry to hear of 
the impact this has had on Miss E  but given the account history and its regulatory 
responsibilities, I think HSBC has acted reasonably here. 
I know this will not be the outcome Miss E was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont 
be asking HSBC to take any further action. However, Miss E can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the 
remaining £100 distress and inconvenience payment to Miss E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman