DRN-3319747
The complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1988. 
Mr and Mrs R say Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint, but he thought the PPI 
should have been cancelled when the loan it covered was repaid. So he thought Bradford 
and Bingley should repay the premiums paid after that date, with interest.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had 
previously made. It thought Mr and Mrs R should be compensated in full. Bradford and 
Bingley also disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, saying that it thought no compensation 
was due as the policy had provided ongoing cover for Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint, but that 
the premiums paid after the loan was repaid should be refunded. 
Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below. Looking first at the sale of the policy:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because Bradford & Bingley sent in a copy of the 
loan application form and I can see that Mr and Mrs R had to state that they wanted the 
PPI. And theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs R enough 
clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R (who was 
the person insured  Mrs R wasnt eligible for the cover). Although Mr R says he had a 
medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused Mr and Mrs 
R to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say this because the terms and 
conditions showed that a claim for this condition would not have been excluded, because 
it had occurred so many years before the policy was sold. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them had something gone 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs R would have declined the cover had 
Bradford & Bingley done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy 
couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact 
they had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
However, I can see from the copy of Mr and Mrs Rs loan application form that they clearly 
wanted to cover only the extra amount they were borrowing  this was £2,500 over a three-
year term. From the evidence I have, it doesnt seem that, when the loan was repaid in 1991, 
Bradford & Bingley asked Mr and Mrs R whether they wanted the PPI to continue as cover 
for their mortgage. The nature of the loan is also unclear, in that the application form refers 
to a personal loan, and doesnt say whether it was secured on Mr and Mrs Rs home, 
whereas Bradford and Bingley said it was a secured loan. And it seems to have treated it as 
a further advance on the mortgage. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that it was explained to Mr and Mrs R that the policy would continue 
after the loan was repaid, or that they were given a clear choice about it doing so when they 
did repay the loan.Bradford and Bingley argued that the PPI policy was not a fixed term product, and it 
continued to provide benefits - Mr R couldve claimed after the additional loan ended. It 
further said that the onus was on Mr and Mrs R to cancel the policy should they no longer 
want the cover. 
Bradford & Bingley also said that the PPI premiums were debited to the main mortgage 
account and therefore Mr and Mrs R couldve seen that it was still continuing from their 
annual mortgage statements. So they were aware that they still held cover and thus they 
opted to continue with the policy.
Ive thought about what Bradford and Bingley said. But as I explained above, the loan 
application form clearly said the PPI was to cover the additional borrowing only. Ive no 
evidence to say that they were given a choice about continuing the cover after that, or that 
they agreed to that continuation of cover. I dont think that was fair. So I have concluded that 
Bradford and Bingley should refund the premiums paid after the loan was repaid. 
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley should put Mr and Mrs R in the financial position theyd be in now if the 
PPI policy had ended when they repaid the loan in 1991. So Bradford & Bingley should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI from the date the 
loan was repaid to the end date of the policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley to take off tax from this interest. Bradford & 
Bingley must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint in part. I dont uphold the part of the 
complaint about the sale of the policy, however, as I have explained, I have concluded that 
Bradford & Bingley Plc should refund the premiums paid after the additional loan was repaid 
in 1991. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman