DRN-2454733
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that the joint life and critical illness cover sold to them by 
Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd (PTFS) wasnt suitable. The policy was sold to them 
when they took a further advance on their mortgage and they have said they should have 
been advised to keep their initial policy. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an existing joint decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness 
cover, which theyd had in place since taking their mortgage out in 2013. The policy had an 
original sum assured of £195,000 for a monthly premium of £91.84.
In 2016, they took out a further advance of their mortgage for £60,000, for a term of 25 
years. This left them with a shortfall in their life cover and so PTFS advised them on this, as 
well as the mortgage advance. 
PTFS recommended a new joint decreasing term assurance policy with an original sum 
assured of £240,995 and a level joint critical illness policy for a sum assured of £59,708. 
These policies had a combined monthly premium of approximately £100, which PTFS says 
Mr and Mrs C had confirmed was their budget. Mr and Mrs C accepted the recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that they unfortunately needed to claim under the critical illness 
policy. They subsequently complained that the advice they were given in 2016 wasnt 
suitable, as they were left with less cover than they had previously and a shortfall in their 
mortgage debt. 
PTFS responded to say that they didnt think the advice given was unsuitable. They said 
they had taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs full circumstances and budget at the time. Mr 
and Mrs C then brought the complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it and she concluded that the recommendation was suitable. 
She felt that Mr and Mrs C would have had a shortfall in either life cover or critical illness 
cover and that she couldnt say what was recommended wasnt suitable. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, they said that they already had life cover in place elsewhere. As 
no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to issue a final decision.   
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs C feel that when they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage in 2016, PTFS sold them a new joint life and critical illness cover 
policy which was unsuitable. They feel they were better covered by their original policy. 
From the information recorded at the time of the sale I can see that following the further 
advance, Mr and Mrs C had borrowings of approximately £240,000 and cover for less than 
£195,000. So, there was clearly a shortfall in their protection. I can also see from this 
information that they had specified their monthly budget was £100.
In most situations where protection for borrowing and critical illness cover is needed, I would 
expect the advisor to recommend a policy that provided the life and critical illness cover for 
the full liability on a decreasing basis. And from the information I have I can see the adviser 
looked into this but found this method would have cost approximately £180 a month, which 
was considerably more than Mr and Mrs Cs stated budget. 
Another alternative would have been for Mr and Mrs C to keep the original policy but to take 
a top-up policy for life cover for the new liability. But again, I can see from the records of the 
time of the sale that this was also explored, and this method would have cost approximately 
£66 a month and so also taken Mr and Mrs C considerably above budget. 
In my view the adviser explored a number of ways of getting Mr and Mrs C the cover they 
needed while also taking into account their available monthly budget which understandably 
he couldnt ignore. And it seems the decision was made to take the full cover for the life 
protection whilst taking a lower level of critical illness cover. And while this didnt provide the 
perfect protection for Mr and Mrs C I dont think there was anything else the adviser could 
have done as due to budget their options were limited.
Mr and Mrs C have argued that they should have been advised to keep the original policy in 
place, but this would have left them with a short fall in life cover following their additional 
borrowing. Either way there was going to be a short fall somewhere in their protection which 
could not be addressed due to the budget constraints. And whilst I sympathise with Mr and 
Mrs C circumstances in that theyve needed to claim under the critical illness element of the 
policy, its only because of this that they now feel the advice was unsuitable. If they had 
chosen to accept a lower level of life cover instead and one of them had passed away, then 
they would be left with a shortfall in the life cover and could still be of the view the advice 
was unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs C have said they already had cover in place through their employment and so it 
should have been the critical illness cover that was the priority and the life cover that was 
reduced. But from the information provided I cant see they made the adviser aware of this 
and so without that information the adviser wouldnt have been in a position to take that into 
account. Also, its important to note that employee benefits are not always guaranteed to 
remain in place if the employment changes.  
Mr and Mrs C have also suggested that they werent made aware what the new policy 
covered them for and that they had ended up with less critical illness. However, I have been 
provided with a copy of the recommendation letter which does make this clear and I have no 
reason to conclude that Mr and Mrs C werent provided with this. I also have a copy of the 
application and declaration where they confirmed receipt of this document amongst others. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs C were unfortunately always going to be left with a shortfall in cover 
for their new total borrowings due to their budget. Its with hindsight that they wouldve been 
better off with more critical illness cover. However, this was more expensive. I dont agree 
that the policy they were recommended was unsuitable or that they should have been 
advised to keep their original policy. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before XX 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman