DRN-1206456
 
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how much Help Your Claims Limited (HYC) are charging her for mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
Ms M instructed HYC in January 2018 to make mis-sold PPI claims on her behalf. The 
claims were successful and HYC invoiced for their fees.
 Ms M has complained that HYC agreed to carry out a no obligation search and she didnt 
realise they were charging her for their service. She says that she asked them to stop acting 
for her when she found out what they were doing. Shes also complained that HYCs 
charges are in breach of the fee cap for PPI claims. Ms M offered to settle HYCs invoices by 
paying them a fee of 20% plus VAT  the level of the fee cap. But HYC rejected this offer.
 Our investigator found that HYC had acted reasonably. She found that Ms M had instructed 
HYC to make the claims for her, and the claims were successful as a result. She also found 
that HYC were charging the fees Ms M agreed to and, because she instructed them before 
the fee cap came into force, they werent required to limit their fees.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator. She says that she asked HYC to stop acting for her, 
and they didnt do this. She thinks the fee cap should be enforced and shes unhappy how 
HYC chased her for their fees  hounding her with unsolicited calls demanding payment. 
She also unhappy that HYC have instructed debt collectors to recover their fees, which she 
thinks is wrong because she didnt borrow any money. Ms M has also said that HYC havent 
been clear about charging VAT on their fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 required the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. 
From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of 
more than 20% plus VAT (24%).
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance to all claims management companies. This 
said from the date of this guidance you should inform all new or potential clients of the 
upcoming change to the fees you can charge. So I would expect HYC to have told all of 
their new or potentially new customers about the upcoming fee cap from 11 May 2018.Ive seen that Ms M signed the authorities for HYC to act for her in January 2018, and the 
claims were successful in April and May 2018 - this all took place before HYC were aware of 
the fee cap and when it was going to take effect from. So I wouldnt expect HYC to have told 
Ms M about the fee cap in January 2018. And theyre not breaching any legislation or 
regulation by charging a fee of 30% plus VAT (36%) on Ms Ms claims.
Ive also seen the paperwork Ms M signed in January 2018. This explains that HYC would 
be dealing with PPI claims for her; that she didnt need to use them to make the claim; and 
that they were charging a 30% fee + VAT on all money refunded. HYC also gave an 
example of how this fee would work. So I cant say they werent clear about their fees or that 
they charged VAT.
This paperwork also explained that Ms M had the right to cancel the agreement within 14 
days at no cost.  It also said that, if Ms M cancelled after 14 days, HYC would charge a 
reasonable charge for work carried out but they would charge their full fee if cancellation 
was attempted after a claim was successful.
Ms M has said shed tried to cancel HYCs services, and I dont doubt this. But I havent 
seen anything to show she tried to do this before the claims were successful. So HYC are 
entitled to charge their full fee - 30% plus VAT - on the successful claims.
I appreciate that Ms M thought this was a no obligation agreement, and she said she didnt 
read the paperwork she signed. But HYCs paperwork clearly explained the agreement Ms M 
was entering into and, by signing the paperwork, Ms M agreed to these terms, whether she 
chose to read the paperwork or not.
HYC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, HYCs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Just because HYCs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Ms M 
doesnt make their fee unjustified.
Ms M has also complained about the HYCs attempts to recover their fees. Its clear she 
disputed the fees, and refused to pay all of these. Because of this shed find any attempts to 
collect the fee unwanted and unacceptable. But, HYC were entitled to charge their fees at 
30% plus VAT, and were therefore entitled to attempt to collect them.
Ive also seen HYC attempted to contact Ms M about their fees on a number of occasions, 
and that not all of these contacts were successful. They also told her what actions they 
would take to legally recover their fees if they remained unpaid. These are factual 
statements and, although Ms M may not have wished to be told this, it doesnt make them 
threatening or harassment. 
HYC passed Ms Ms unpaid fees to a debt collector, which theyre entitled to do. Debt 
collectors can deal with unpaid fees and Ms M doesnt need to have borrowed money before 
they can become involved. So I dont think HYC have done anything wrong and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Help Your Claim 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman