DRN-2860784
The complaint
Mrs O is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Specialist Lending Limited to fund an online education course for her 
children with a supplier that I will call E.
What happened
Mrs O was keen to arrange some additional tutoring for her children, so she contacted E to 
enquire about entering them onto an online educational course. In September 2018 one of 
Es representatives visited Mrs O at her home, following which she entered her children onto 
a course, which cost £2,725.80. She entered into a five-year finance agreement with 
Specialist Lending to pay for it.
Around seven months later, Mrs O tried to cancel the course as she says her children 
werent getting on with it any longer, but E told her she wasnt able to cancel after the initial 
14 days. And it explained to her shed entered into a five-year loan agreement. Mrs O 
complained as she said she didnt know she was taking out a loan at the time. 
E responded to say Mrs O signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied she was 
reasonably aware she was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork she 
signed set out the terms and cancellation rights. And it didnt think it was fair to rely on one 
persons testimony. It said Mrs O would have been given the time to read and consider the 
paperwork before signing it and could have queried anything she didnt understand. It also 
said shed been given copies of the paperwork after she purchased the course. And it said 
she had 14 days to reconsider if she wanted to cancel it.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Mrs O paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Specialist 
Lending is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. 
Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of Specialist Lending during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs O 
entering into the loan agreement, starting from when she was first approached by E. But 
essentially, this means Specialist Lending is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in 
relation to the sale of the loan to Mrs O. In other words, Specialist Lending has to stand 
behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process. 
Mrs O is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when her children stopped using 
it. She says she didnt realise she was taking out a loan and thought it was a monthly 
contract  like a mobile phone contract.
Under the terms of the finance, Mrs O had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. But Mrs O maintains she didnt know she was 
taking out a loan and doesnt think its fair shes paying for something her children arent 
using anymore. So I think the key issues I have to think about is whether the course and 
finance agreement were misrepresented to her.
The paperwork Mrs O electronically signed clearly sets out that she was entering into a 
fixed-sum loan agreement. She also hand-signed the Customer Clarification & Satisfaction 
form and individually acknowledged the following statements:
Youve chosen to pay for your lifetime licence from [E] by way of Finance (for which  
Credit Checks are necessary).
Your Lifetime Licence will be paid for by 60 monthly instalments totalling £2,772.80. 
Youre aware that [E] gives you 14 days to cancel starting from the date of sale. A copy 
of the right to cancel information from [E] is on the back of this form. If youre using 
Finance, the company providing Finance will provide you with a withdrawal period of 14 
days, usually starting with the day after the day on which the Finance agreement is made 
or as confirmed to you elsewhere by the finance company.
Whilst [E] provides the Lifetime Licence (as shown on its documentation), if your chosen 
method of payment is Finance that finance will be provided by a third party.
So Mrs O did hand-sign to acknowledge that she couldnt cancel the course after 14 days. 
She also hand-signed to acknowledge she was aware she was taking out a finance 
agreement. However, Im also conscious that a lay person may not necessarily appreciate 
that a finance agreement means a loan as they could consider it to just be a monthly finance 
arrangement. 
But Ive also considered what Mrs O has told us about what the salesman said to her. Shes 
explained to us that she didnt realise she was taking out a loan and she said she assumed it 
was a monthly contract. But I dont think shes given us anything for me to conclude that the 
salesman told her she could cancel the contract at any time.
Ive looked at the audit trail for when Mrs O signed the loan agreement. I can see she 
electronically signed the finance agreement within a minute of it first being created by E. I 
dont think its likely she could have signed it at precisely the same time as it being created if 
shed been given the opportunity to read it. Im also conscious she electronically signed the 
direct debit instruction and pre-contract information document at the same time.
I understand that Es usual sales process at the time was that a consumer would tick a box 
on a tablet to sign the documents. I think its likely there would have been a slight delay if 
shes been asked to sign them separately. So I think its most likely she ticked separate 
boxes to electronically sign the documents. And Im not persuaded she would have been 
given a copy of the agreement to review before she signed them.
But I also have to think whether Mrs O would have acted differently. Mrs O has told us she 
approached E directly after finding their details online. Shes told us she was looking for 
support for her two oldest children  her eldest child was doing GCSEs and was particularly 
struggling with Maths. Im satisfied from what shes told us that she was keen to enrol her 
children on the course. So I think its most likely she would have still entered into the finance 
agreement had E made it clearer how she was financing the course. And Im not persuaded 
shes lost out as a result of the salesmans failings in this respect. 
Ultimately, Mrs O signed to acknowledge she had 14 days to decide whether the course was 
suitable for her and that she couldnt cancel after this date. And she hasnt given me 
anything to show she was told anything different by the salesman for her to disregard this 
statement. So I cant say its unfair that she was subsequently told she couldnt cancel the 
course as this is in line with the terms of the course and finance agreement. Ive also thought about Mrs Os concerns about the quality of the course. But I havent seen 
anything to show that the course wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. Mrs O says 
her children were getting a lot of assignments at school and didnt have the time to commit to 
the course. But I dont think this was down to anything E did wrong.
I appreciate Mrs O is unhappy she isnt able to withdraw from the contract. But Specialist 
Lending is only liable for any losses arising from a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by E. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think this applies in this case.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reach in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman