DRN-3170796
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the interest and charges on her two accounts with JD Williams & 
Company Limited which she says are putting her further in debt. 
What happened
Mrs H has two accounts with JD Williams. The first account was opened in 2017 and last 
used to purchase goods in March 2020. The second account was opened in 2018 and last 
used to purchase goods in June 2020. Mrs H says she wants to repay the accounts, but the 
interest and charges being added each month mean the balances are not reducing. In 
December 2020 she told JD Williams she was having difficulty meeting the payments and 
asked it to write off the arrears on the account. 
JD Williams asked her to provide some more information about her income and expenditure 
so that it could consider how it could help her. Mrs H replied to say she just wanted the 
arrears written off. In January 2021, she told JD Williams shed be able to make future 
payments on time.
But in March 2021 she complained that shed paid more in interest and charges than the 
goods shed received, and shed like it to stop adding these charges to her account.
JD Williams said the interest and fees had been charged in line with the agreed terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
JD Williams had acted in line with its terms and conditions. And that, if Mrs H was having 
difficulty making the payments, she should contact JD Williams to arrange a repayment plan.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said, in summary, that 
She cant afford to pay such a high rate of interest.
She wasnt charged such a high rate when the accounts were opened because she was 
on benefits.
She accepts she needs to pay for the goods she obtained and is willing to pay a small 
amount of interest.
Since Mrs H referred her complaint to this service, both accounts have defaulted and 
JD Williams has frozen the interest and charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H opened both accounts online and would have agreed to the account terms which 
covered how and when interest would be charged on the accounts and at what rate. The 
terms also set out when other charges would be payable, for example if payments were 
received late. I find Mrs Hs contractual obligations were made reasonably clear. And I find 
interest and fees charged to both accounts were charged in line with the agreed terms. The 
amount of interest charged has increased as the balance outstanding on the accounts has 
increased.
But, whilst I find JD Williams has acted in line with the agreed terms of the account, I also 
need to consider whether it has treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably, particularly as she may 
be experiencing financial difficulties. 
The rules and guidance relevant to this type of credit agreement are set out in the FCAs 
Consumer Credit handbook, CONC. For ease of reference, Ive highlighted some of these 
below.
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that examples of forbearance could 
include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time in order to allow a customer to recover.
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm 
should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a customer in 
arrears or default.
CONC 3.3.1R states that communications from firms must be clear, fair and not misleading.
Mrs H began missing payments towards the end of 2020 and she contacted JD Williams in 
December 2020 to tell it she was having some difficulties making payment. JD Williams said 
it would be able to help Mrs H and asked her to either phone or to provide some more 
information about her financial circumstances and how much she could afford to pay. It also 
provided her with details of other organisations that might be of use to her. I am satisfied 
JD Williams fulfilled its obligation to treat Mrs H fairly and reasonably here. Mrs H didnt want 
to discuss matters on the phone, but I cant see that she emailed JD Williams with the 
information it needed to assess how it could help her. And, the following month, she told 
JD Williams she would be able to make future payments.
When Mrs H contacted JD Williams again in March 2021, she complained about the level of 
interest and charges. Whilst her complaint was being investigated, JD Williams continued to 
follow its collection procedure. And whilst I understand this may have been upsetting for 
Mrs H, there was no obligation on JD Williams to suspend its activities while it investigated 
the complaint  or whilst we have been investigating it. 
In its final response to her complaint, JD Williams again gave contact details for Mrs H to 
provide more information about her financial circumstances and gave details of another 
organisation that she might find helpful. 
Mrs H has asked for the arrears on the account, and the interest charges, to be written off. 
But I dont find theres any obligation on JD Williams to do this. Mrs H says she is on 
benefits, but it is her overall financial position which is important in deciding how much she 
needs to repay.
I dont find it was unreasonable for JD Williams to issue notices of default when it did, as 
there didnt seem to be any prospect of Mrs Hs circumstances changing. And Im pleased to hear interest and charges have now been suspended on both accounts and that JD Williams 
has accepted reduced payments from Mrs H from the start of this year. 
JD Williams has said it is willing to discuss an affordable repayment plan for the balances 
outstanding on the accounts, but it requires information from Mrs H about her financial 
circumstances. I do appreciate this has been very stressful for Mrs H and that she may be 
anxious about talking to JD Williams on the phone. But JD Williams has provided a 
dedicated email address if Mrs H would prefer to communicate with it this way.
I would encourage both parties to continue to communicate with each other so that 
JD Williams is aware of Mrs Hs up to date financial position and so that it can continue to 
treat Mrs H fairly and reasonably whilst she is experiencing financial difficulties and in 
deciding how much she needs to repay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman