DRN-2095705
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly debited £150 from her account and confused 
her account with her daughters.
What happened
Mrs M has an account with TSB. In January 2019, she called TSB and asked them to 
transfer £150 to her third-party credit card account. But the payment didnt arrive, so Mrs M 
called TSB again the next day. It then came to light that TSB had transferred the money to 
Mrs Ms daughters account by mistake. Mrs M logged a complaint with TSB, which was 
resolved the same day. TSB acknowledged their mistake and paid Mrs M £50 for the 
inconvenience caused, plus £2 to cover her call costs. They closed the complaint the same 
day and refunded the £150 to Mrs Ms account around three days later.
A few days after that, £150 was re-debited from Mrs Ms TSB account. It was refunded a few 
days later, in early February 2019. Around the same time, TSB wrote to Mrs M saying that 
the payment to her daughters account didnt qualify to be retrieved. When Mrs M contacted 
TSB, they re-opened the original complaint. They say that, as theyd already issued a 
Summary Resolution Communication, there was no fixed timeframe for them to respond to 
Mrs M further.
 
Over a period of around 15 months, Mrs M contacted TSB many times about her complaint. 
She wanted to know when she would receive a response and she made TSB aware of 
additional concerns about her account being linked to her daughters account. She told TSB 
about various issues shed experienced and said that TSB had mixed up her account with 
her daughters account. She was concerned about data protection breaches.
TSB sent Mrs M their written response on 26 May 2020. They accepted that they had made 
mistakes in some areas. But they said they hadnt breached data protection rules and that 
theyd followed their complaints procedure correctly. TSB paid Mrs M £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience she had experienced. So they have paid Mrs M £102 in total to date.
Mrs M wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. She says that TSB havent 
compensated her for a late payment fee and interest she incurred on her credit card 
because of their original mistake with the payment transfer. And she says that, since 
January 2019, TSB have confused her account with her daughters many times. She says 
the compensation paid by TSB to date doesnt cover these issues and she thinks they need 
to do more to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think TSB had dealt with the complaint fairly. He recommended that 
they pay a further £150 to Mrs M. Mrs M was happy with that outcome. But TSB didnt agree. 
They say theyve made a fair and reasonable award and that they rectified their mistake 
quickly. Because TSB didnt accept our investigators recommendation, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The first issue Mrs M experienced was that TSB mistakenly transferred £150 to her 
daughter, instead of her credit card provider. TSB acknowledged that error promptly and 
paid compensation of £50, plus Mrs Ms call costs, which I think was fair. 
But, just a few days afterwards, £150 was re-debited from Mrs Ms account. This was once 
again due to an error, but TSB didnt deal with it in the same way this time. Although the 
£150 was put back in Mrs Ms account within a few days, I cant see that Mrs M was ever 
given an explanation as to why the re-debit had occurred or any assurance that the issue 
wouldnt happen again.
 
The re-debit occurred in January 2019. TSB paid compensation of £50 in May 2020. Their 
letter awarding the compensation makes no mention of the re-debit. So Im not satisfied that 
the compensation was awarded for that mistake, although I understand that TSB accept it 
was a mistake on their part. I think this is something which TSB need to pay some 
compensation for.
The other part of Mrs Ms complaint is to do with mix-ups between her account and her 
daughters account. Mrs M says that TSB have repeatedly confused their accounts and that 
they appear to be linked on TSBs system. Shes given examples of failing telephone 
security because she was being asked questions about her daughters account, and 
receiving a text message containing a pass-code intended for her daughter.
Mrs M has been quite specific about some of the security questions she was asked when 
calling TSB about her account. She says these related to her daughters account and Ive no 
reason to doubt what she says. But TSB say they have no record of Mrs M failing telephone 
security, even though all calls are recorded. On balance, I find it likely that Mrs M did 
experience some issues when calling TSB. Their complaint notes show that she mentioned 
this problem multiple times when calling them over several months. And she gave examples 
of what she had been asked. TSB seem to accept to some degree that there was a problem. 
Their letter of May 2020 apologised that the advisor mixed up Mrs M and her daughters 
accounts. But it didnt explain why this had happened or say that any steps had been taken 
to prevent further issues.
In relation to the text message containing the pass-code, I note that Mrs M raised this with 
TSB in April 2019. TSB told her they would look into it, but I havent seen anything to show 
that they did, and its not addressed in their letter of May 2020. Mrs M says she no longer 
has the text message as she deleted it when she received our investigators view. So I 
havent seen the message, but Im satisfied that Mrs M told TSB about it at the time. It does 
suggest a mix-up between Mrs M and her daughter.
So, on balance and looking at the situation overall, I find it likely that Mrs M did experience 
some problems and mix-ups between her account and her daughters account. Im not 
satisfied that TSB did enough to look into this issue or put things right. They appear to have 
focused on the data protection issue, as their letter of May 2020 says that no breach 
occurred because no actual account details were given out. Even if thats the case, it doesnt 
mean no mistakes were made here. 
Mrs M s account of the issues she experienced, as reflected in TSBs complaint notes, 
indicates a repeated problem with confusion by TSB between Mrs M and her daughter. It 
clearly caused Mrs M concern, frustration and inconvenience, which she explained to TSB. I dont think TSB dealt with this aspect of the complaint fairly as I cant see that they looked 
into it fully or gave Mrs M any explanation or resolution on it either way. And I dont think 
theyve done enough to acknowledge the impact of this on Mrs M. I think TSB need to pay 
some compensation for this.
Some of the £50 which TSB paid in May 2020 appears to have been compensation for a 
telephone advisor asking security questions that didnt relate to Mrs Ms account. But the 
payment also related to several other issues (including the letter saying the original payment 
couldnt be retrieved, the service Mrs M received, and the time taken to respond to her). So I 
dont think that TSB have done enough so far to put things right. I think they need to pay 
some further compensation to Mrs M as redress for the re-debiting of her account, the 
confusion between her account and her daughters and the distress caused by this issue. 
Putting things right
Its difficult to put a monetary value on the impact of a situation like this. But, on balance, I 
think a further payment of £150 is fair here. The experience was frustrating and stressful for 
Mrs M and caused her inconvenience. And TSB didnt resolve it satisfactorily from her point 
of view. But I have to be impartial, so Ive also taken into account what TSB have said about 
the complaint and the fact that there arent call recordings to support everything Mrs M has 
said. Im not going to ask TSB to pay any more to cover interest or a late payment fee on 
Mrs M s credit card, as I havent seen any evidence of those charges and I think the amount 
Im awarding is enough to cover any charges which Mrs M incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must now pay Mrs M further 
compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman