DRN-4268482
The complaint
H complain PayrNet Limited, trading as ANNA, restricted their account without any warning 
or explanation. They also complain that transactions made to it from another company were 
returned and done so with substantive delay. 
H say this has caused them financial and reputational loss. To keep matters simple, I will 
refer mainly to ANNA in my decision.  
What happened
In April 2022, following an internal review, ANNA restricted Hs account. ANNA decided to 
return the funds held in the account to the source account and closed it with immediate 
effect. ANNA explained that it was talking these actions in line with obligations imposed upon 
it. 
H says the funds were from another UK company who had paid it to procure certain goods 
as part of its business dealings, and that it was purchasing these goods on behalf of its 
overseas parent company. I will now refer to this UK based company as A and its parent 
overseas company as B. 
H says it was told by ANNA the funds paid to it by A would be returned the following day. But 
this wasnt done until nearly 20 days later, on 25 April 2022. Unhappy with the delays, H 
complained. 
In summary, in its response, ANNA said that all monies had now been transferred from Hs 
account and due to the large sums involved there was a slight delay in processing them. 
ANNA apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused. Unhappy, H referred its 
complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Hs complaint, and they did not uphold it. In summary, 
they found: 
- ANNA acted fairly and in line with its regulatory obligations in blocking onward 
payments from Hs account when carrying out its review 
- ANNA did not apply its terms of account unfairly when closing Hs account 
immediately, and its not obliged to disclose reasons why it did so 
- ANNA started the process of returning the two payments to A on 7 April 2022. The 
process of returning funds to source is typically subject to due diligence and 
regulatory checks and exact timescales cant always be given
- The funds werent returned to A until 25 April 2022 and they werent then returned to 
B until 26 April 2022. Because of this delay, H calculated that B had around £10,000 
less returned to it due to the change in foreign exchange rates since it first 
transferred the funds to A. But ANNA were not the main cause in any delay in 
returning the funds, and any time it took to return the funds didnt create any impact 
for which its responsible 
- Our rules allow us to only consider losses experienced by the complainant, and it 
wasnt H who suffered any loss here. A received the funds from H in the same 
currency, and there was no exchange rate impact caused by returning the funds from 
H to A
- H had said that to preserve its reputation they paid the financial loss suffered by A 
due to the foreign exchange rates available at the time the funds were returned to B. 
But H had not been able to show any evidence of payments they made to A for this 
H did not agree with what our Investigator said. In essence H argues ANNAs actions in 
returning the funds to A in the way it did were unlawful, and it caused substantive delay in 
returning the funds after saying it would take one working day. H says ANNA should have 
offered to return the funds by cheque or another method.   
H also adds that it sent the goods it had initially contracted to procure to A through another 
method and settled this through another bank. And to repair its reputation, H didnt charge A 
and/or B for the costs of that invoice and other services it should have provided. 
H also argues that ANNA had no basis to return the funds returned to A to B in the foreign 
currency of origin. Our Investigator, in short, made the following key points in response: 
- Theyre not able to comment on what happened with A and ANNA as this complaint 
deals with H and its relationship with ANNA. If A has issue with ANNA, it should take 
this up directly with it 
- They think ANNA actions, and the time it took it to carry these out were fair and 
reasonable
- So as ANNA didnt do anything wrong, it doesnt need to compensate H for any loss
As H didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint them, 
so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything H and ANNA have said before 
reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on ANNAs actions 
regarding Hs business account with it. H is the eligible complainant here. So to be clear I will only be considering the actions ANNA 
took against them and determining if it acted properly in doing so. And if I think it didnt, Ill 
only be considering any loss it suffered and not any other legal entity  in this case A and B.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information ANNA 
has provided is information that I consider should be kept confidential.
Financial businesses in the UK, like ANNA, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means ANNA 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at ANNAs reasons for restricting Hs account, Im satisfied it acted in line with 
its obligations in doing so.
H says it is not complaining about its account being closed as they accept ANNA is entitled 
to do this in the way it has. So this isnt something I need to make a finding on. 
This brings me onto the crux of Hs complaint, that is ANNA has acted improperly in 
returning the funds back to A, and it did so with significant delay which meant B suffered a 
financial loss due to the prevailing foreign exchange rate at that time. 
I know H would like an explanation as to why ANNA decided to review and return the funds 
in this way. But for the reasons I gave above this isnt something Ill be disclosing here. Nor 
am I aware of any obligation under which I or ANNA must do so. 
Having seen the information provided to me, Im persuaded ANNA didnt do anything wrong 
in returning the funds sent to H by A. I note H has sent us information which it says shows 
the funds sent to it by A were to procure goods in line with a commercial contract. But given 
ANNAs concerns, Im satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably in returning the funds to the 
source account  As ANNA account.    
A had made the two transactions in sterling to H, and the money returned was done so in 
sterling too. So Im satisfied ANNA sent the correct amount, in the correct currency to 
source. 
H argues that when the funds were returned to B from A, they were at a less favourable 
exchange rate which led to B suffering a loss of around £10,000. In short, this is not Hs loss 
to complain about given B suffered it. H has said that they were made to feel responsible for 
this by A and B and therefore made up for this loss through not charging A and/or B for the 
costs of an invoice and other services it should have provided.
Ive not seen compelling evidence of this, so its not a financial loss I can say H suffered. But 
I also note that the loss being argued about here was in theory was caused by ANNA 
sending the funds from As account to B in the original currency. So, any actions taken by H 
to repair its lost reputation was their choice and not one borne from something it did wrong. 
From the information Ive seen, which includes screenshots from internal chats, Im satisfied 
ANNA told H that the two payments would be returned to A the following day. That was on 
7 April 2022. But the funds werent returned to A until the 25 April 2022. Thats around 
eleven working days after H was told the funds would be returned. 
Ive looked closely at ANNAs reasons for this apparent delay. Ive also considered whether this delay is reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im 
persuaded that a delay of a little over two weeks in sending the funds to A was reasonable.  
There are valid operational reasons which Im satisfied underpin my finding here. In any 
event, any delay in sending the funds would be a loss for A to contest.
I note H would like to know what specific regulations ANNA relied on. The UK financial 
regulator sets regulations which regulated businesses must comply with  and most of the 
legislations will be covered by this. 
Regulated businesses are required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, 
including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook and various pieces of primary and secondary legislations. Most of 
these regulatory requirements applies to all UK regulated financial businesses and ANNA is 
subject to these legal and regulatory requirements.
Its not in our remit to review regulated businesses processes  we can only check that 
theyve followed their processes correctly and acted fairly. In the circumstances of Hs 
complaint, I think they have. And Im satisfied ANNA has acted appropriately in returning the 
funds to A, and the time in which it did so. 
So as I dont think ANNA did anything wrong, I wont be asking it to compensate H both for 
any financial loss or inconvenience suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman