DRN-4406348
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to a 
scam.
Mr L has used a representative to bring his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly only 
refer to Mr L himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2023 Mr L contacted Lloyds to raise a fraud claim and to complain. He alleged 
that a series of 18 payments (totalling around £38,000) from his account that took place in 
May and June 2022 had been made as the result of a scam. The payments ranged in value 
from £820 to £5,000. Mr L says that Lloyds didnt do enough to prevent his loss. The letter 
referred to the payments all going to a cryptocurrency exchange C.
Lloyds responded but ultimately didnt offer any redress. Mr L referred his complaint to our 
service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary he 
didnt think the payments were so unusual or out of character that Lloyds reasonably ought 
to have intervened at the time. Mr L disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr L, so Ill explain why. 
Mr L told Lloyds that these payments had all been made to an account in his own name with 
C (which he was in control of). Based on this I dont think Lloyds not considering a refund 
under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
was fair. The CRM code is specific that it only applies to payments made to another person. 
Lloyds first duty is to process the payments that Mr L instructs. But they fairly and 
reasonably must also be alert to the potential of fraud and scams and act in their customers 
best interests. 
The payments Mr L says were made as the result of a scam were listed in his letter of 
complaint as going to C. Yet on his statements they appear as going to him, and there are 
other outgoing payments on his statements (which arent part of the alleged scam) and 
which do show as going to C. Mr L also hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
communication between him and the scammers, although he has provided the names of the 
businesses he believed he was dealing with. But even setting these issues aside and taking 
Mr L at his word that all the payments hes described were to C and as the result of a scam, 
this doesnt change the outcome of the complaint. 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably be looking out for unusual, suspicious or out of character 
payments which might indicate their customers are at risk of financial harm from fraud. But 
as Ive mentioned above, this must be balanced against their obligation to promptly execute 
payment instructions. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded the payments Mr L alleges were as 
the result of a scam were so unusual or suspicious where its reasonable to expect Lloyds to 
have done more before processing them. Mr Ls previous use of his account means that I 
dont think payments to cryptocurrency or of the number and value of those as a result of the 
alleged scam would have stood out such that Lloyds ought to have done more. I say this for 
the following reasons:
Mr L had previously made many payments to C dating back to at least November 
2021. 
Mr L had also received several credits to his account from C. Examples of these 
include over £3,300 received in a few days in February 2022 and £5,200 in March 
2022. 
It wasnt unusual for Mr L to make larger outgoing payments or multiple such 
payments in one day. Examples of these include payments of £10,000 and £5,000 on 
24 September 2021, payments of £10,000 and over £6,800 the following day (25 
September 2021), and a further payment of £10,000 on 2 March 2022. There were 
other payments of values comparable to the scam payments, but Ive only listed 
enough to illustrate my point.  
Ive considered Mr Ls arguments as to why he thinks Lloyds ought to have intervened but I 
dont agree. In the context of the previous account activity Ive referenced above, I dont 
think this is a reasonable expectation. And so I dont think Lloyds reasonably should have 
done more before processing the payment instructions Mr L provided. 
And given Mr Ls own testimony is that he was funding his own account with C, I dont think 
Lloyds could have done anything to assist with recovery. Had funds remained with C, Mr L 
would have been able to access them himself. 
Im sorry to hear Mr L lost his money, but as I dont think this is something Lloyds are 
responsible for, Im not going to direct that they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman