DRN-4071777
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a payment it didnt make.
Mr N, who is a director or J, brings the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Mr N failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep Js personalised security details safe
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mr N received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus  it referenced 
a request to update the phone number on Js account and told him someone would 
contact him shortly. He then received a call which similarly appeared as Cashplus  
he recalled the caller knew some of his personal information. Taking this all into 
account  how the communication appeared and the personal information they knew 
 I can see why he was persuaded they were calling from his genuine bank. I think 
lots of people wouldve done.
Mr N recalled being told that someone was attempting fraud on Js account, so he 
needed to reset its security details. As part of this, he was asked to click on a link 
theyd send him by text. It seems likely that by using this link and following 
instructions under the guise of resetting Js details, hed in fact enabled the fraudsters 
to reset Js online banking details and make a payment. 
Mr N cant remember in detail the steps he took during the call, but hes explained he 
felt convinced to follow the link because it appeared in the same chain of messages 
as others from Cashplus. He also said that when he clicked on it, it looked like 
Cashpluss genuine website. Given this familiarity, Im not persuaded Mr N seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk, in order for me to conclude he failed with gross 
negligence. Indeed, I think many others wouldve acted the same way in these 
deceptive and convincing circumstances, particularly when theyve been cleverly 
duped into trusting the caller and were concerned for the safety of their money. 
Cashplus point out that Mr N said he was suspicious of the calls but he seemingly 
still followed their instructions. Hes explained to our service that the key reason for 
his concerns was because of their persistent calls, including when they appeared to 
come from his own number. And I note from the call history that most of the calls 
(including those from his own number) happened after the payment was made. So 
this doesnt lead me to think he actually appreciated a risk when he followed their 
instructions that allowed this payment to be made. 
I note Mr N also said in a call with Cashplus that he refused to log in when they 
asked him to because the link came from a different number to the one they called 
him from. From the messages he shared, the links appeared to come from Cashplus 
number  as did the calls before the payment was made. So its possible the request 
Mr N spoke about happened later. Or, that when the messages appeared to come 
from Cashplus, he was reassured they were genuine. Considering both possibilities, 
Im not convinced Cashplus has shown Mr N acted with very significant carelessness 
to say he failed with gross negligence. 
Overall, this was clearly a sophisticated scam that was cleverly planned to target 
Cashpluss customers. So I dont think Cashplus has shown Mr N failed with gross 
negligence. That means that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider J can be fairly 
held liable for this unauthorised payment and Cashplus needs to put things right.
Having reviewed Js statements, it appears the unauthorised payment led to several 
Direct Debits being rejected  leading to fees and J entering its overdraft. So 
Cashplus should also refund those caused by the unauthorised payment.
Cashplus should have restored Js account much sooner. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Js complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay J the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £9,600.00. 
Refund J any fees and charges caused by the unauthorised payment. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman