DRN-4235193
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly blocked 
and closed his accounts without providing an explanation or warning. Mr J says this caused 
him unnecessary inconvenience and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
I am aware that Mr J has raised complaints with this service regarding all of the accounts he 
held with AESEL which relate to his business and personal accounts. This decision will focus 
on Mr Js complaint regarding his personal accounts.
Mr J was a long standing customer of AESEL. In October 2022, AESEL blocked and 
reviewed Mr Js accounts. This meant Mr J wasnt able to use his accounts. Mr J discovered 
that there was a problem with his account when his son tried to make a payment using his 
supplementary card for the account. Following, this Mr J tried to use his card and his 
payment was also declined. Mr J contacted AESEL, but he wasnt provided much 
information about why he couldnt use his account.
In November 2022, AESEL decided to close Mr Js accounts and wrote to him giving him 60 
days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. Mr Js accounts were closed in 
January 2023. 
Mr J complained to AESEL. He said he hadnt done anything wrong and had always 
maintained his accounts properly. So, he said AESEL had no good reason to block and 
close his accounts. He said that AESELs actions had made him feel like a criminal and 
asked AESEL to provide an explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer.
In response, AESEL said that it had blocked and closed his accounts in line with the account 
terms and conditions and regulatory obligations. AESEL also said it wasnt obliged to provide 
Mr J with an explanation behind the block and closure of his accounts. So, it didnt uphold 
Mr Js complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Mr J told us that hed been a good customer of 
the bank since the late eighties. He said his son, who has a card for his account, can be a bit 
of an extravagant spender, but hed never fallen behind with payments so he cant 
understand why AESEL closed his accounts. He said the closure of his accounts caused him 
trauma and impacted his bill payments. He wants AESEL to reopen his accounts.
The investigator asked AESEL to provide more information about why it had blocked and  
closed Mr Js accounts. But AESEL said it couldnt provide anything more than it had already 
provided to us. AESEL maintained that it hadnt treated Mr J unfairly when it had blocked 
and closed his accounts. And it wasnt willing to reopen his accounts.
The investigator said based on the limited information that AESEL had provided, she 
couldnt say they had treated Mr J fairly when it had blocked and closed his accounts. So, 
she said AESEL should pay Mr J £100 compensation for any trouble and upset the block 
and closure of his accounts had caused him. AESEL didnt respond. Mr J did and disagreed 
with what the investigator said about his complaint. He said that £100 compensation isnt 
enough for the amount of trouble and upset he has suffered. He said he wants AESEL to 
reopen his accounts.  
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for AESELs review of Mr Js accounts. Banks and 
financial business have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common 
industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer 
and/or the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit AESEL to block an 
account. This means AESEL is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Banks and financial businesses are also entitled to end their business relationship with a 
customer, as long as this is done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping 
with the terms and conditions. In this instance the terms of Mr Js account say that in certain 
instances AESEL can close the accounts with immediate notice and by providing 60 days 
notice to a customer. And it doesnt have to provide a reason for doing so. AESEL wrote to 
Mr J in November 2022, giving him two months notice that it was closing his accounts and 
that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements. So, Im satisfied that is has 
complied with this part. 
I understand Mr J wants AESEL to explain the reason it blocked and closed his accounts. It 
cant be pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a customer  especially after being 
a customer of AESEL for as long as Mr J had. But AESEL doesnt disclose to its customers 
what triggers a review of their accounts to its customers. Its under no obligation to tell Mr J 
the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. Its also 
under no obligation to provide Mr J with the reasons it no longer wants him as a customer. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr J this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to continue to provide an account without proper reason, for instance of 
unfair bias or unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
AESEL can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. AESEL have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Js accounts. However, AESEL still needs to provide information to this service so we can 
fairly decide a complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, AESEL has failed to 
provide information about why it no longer wanted Mr J as a customer. 
Ive considered what AESEL has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons it closed Mr Js accounts. This service has the power to request 
evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not persuaded the 
reasons given by AESEL exclude it from complying with these rules. So, in this particular 
case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that AESEL has treated Mr J 
fairly when it closed his accounts. Taking this into account, like the investigator, I agree that 
AESEL should pay Mr J compensation for the trouble and upset caused by closing his 
accounts.
The investigator said AESEL should pay Mr J £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
he was caused. Having considered what Mr J has told us about how closure of his accounts 
impacted him, Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. I also 
acknowledge Mr Js comments about his concern that the account closure may impact his 
credit file, but Ive not seen any evidence that this is the case. Mr J also hasnt provided any 
evidence in support of what hes said about how AESEL closing his account impacted him  
that his bill payments were missed. So having looked at all the evidence and circumstances 
of this complaint, I havent found grounds to increase the level of compensation. Im satisfied 
that £100 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble 
and upset Mr J was caused. So, while Mr J may disagree with me, I wont be asking AESEL 
to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
Finally, I know that Mr J wants AESEL to reopen his accounts. Although AESEL havent 
provided this service with the reasons why it no longer wants Mr J as a customer. I am not 
going to ask AESEL to reopen Mr Js accounts. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. To put things right American Express 
Services Europe Limited should: 
Pay Mr J £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the AESEL closing 
his accounts
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman