DRN-3427021
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) handled her claim
What happened
Mrs S had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality.  She submitted a claim 
to cover chiropractic treatment as she was suffering with lower back strain.
Vitality confirmed they would be able to cover the cost of four sessions but requested that 
she call to confirm the name of the specialist she wished to see. Mrs S attempted to call and 
confirm this information and discuss the number of sessions covered. She also requested 
call back from the relevant department but this wasnt successful. 
Mrs S complained about the phone lines and still didnt receive a call back so she emailed 
Vitality to say she would continue with the chiropractor she had previously used.  She sent a 
further email a couple of days later expressing further dissatisfaction with the lack of 
response and requesting an urgent reply. This didnt happen so she raised a complaint 
about the lack of communication from Vitality. 
Vitality initially said the four chiropractor sessions shed already attended werent covered 
because the chiropractor was not registered with them, so they wouldnt be able to cover the 
cost of the treatment. Then, as compensation for their poor service, they agreed to cover the 
cost of the four sessions she had already attended. But they said they wouldnt cover any 
further treatment with the unregistered chiropractor and provided the details of their 
registered specialists that are covered by her policy.
Unfortunately, Mrs S was unable to arrange an appointment with any of the specialists 
offered. So she asked Vitality what further options were open to her or an agreement to 
cover a session that was booked with her previous chiropractor.
Vitality maintained they wouldnt be able to cover the cost of any further sessions with an 
unregistered chiropractor and provided further registered specialists details.
Disappointed with the service shed received, Mrs S cancelled her policy. It appears Mrs S 
also received incorrect correspondence in relation to this. 
Mrs S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. She 
said, despite the treating specialist not being registered with Vitality, it was reasonable for 
them to cover the cost of the first four sessions because of the communication issues Mrs S 
had experienced. But she thought it was fair Vitality had said any further sessions werent 
covered. 
Our investigator recommended Vitality pay £150 compensation to Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused her through their poor communication when she required 
treatment. 
Vitality said they had agreed to cover the cost of the four sessions as compensation for their 
poor service during the claim. And they had waived the usual £100 excess payment for this 
claim - so they thought £50 compensation was more appropriate. Our investigator issued a 
further assessment that said, taking account of the £100 excess its fair to conclude Vitality 
should only pay the remaining £50 compensation.
Vitality accepted responsibility for its actions here and agreed with the recommended 
compensation made by our investigator. But Mrs S didnt think the compensation reflected 
the poor claims handling and communication from Vitality. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, but for the same amount of 
compensation as already suggested by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied Vitality was clear that any future sessions with the unregistered chiropractor 
wouldnt be covered, and I think they made reasonable efforts to support Mrs S in finding an 
alternative specialist. So I wont be asking Vitality to cover anything more than the 4 session 
it already has.  
However, it's not in dispute that before this point Vitality provided poor customer service and 
communication to Mrs S during an already difficult time when she was seeking treatment for 
a painful back problem. 
Its also clear Mrs S made regular efforts to speak to Vitality before going ahead with the 
treatment with a specialist not registered on her policy. Ive no doubt this wouldve been 
frustrating and time consuming. So I think it was fair for Vitality to say as compensation for 
the poor service, they would cover the cost of her four sessions. 
Mrs S certificate of insurance states there is a £100 excess per person per year. So if the 
treatment had been covered by the policy, Mrs S wouldve been charged £100 excess. On 
that basis I dont think its unreasonable for this figure to be taken account of when 
considering the compensation already provided by Vitality. 
As such, I agree with our investigator that the £100 excess that was waivered should be 
deducted from the additional compensation she had already recommended to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience Vitalitys poor service had also caused.  
I accept Mrs S doesnt feel the remaining £50 is enough. I appreciate she was 
inconvenienced and frustrated as she struggled to get through to Vitality. But its important to 
note in this case I havent seen that this caused any significant delay to the treatment Mrs S 
received because she went ahead and was then able to retrieve her costs back from Vitality 
eventually. 
So I think £150 compensation originally recommended is fair as it adequately acknowledges 
the impact Vitalitys poor communication wouldve caused and the additional efforts made by 
Mrs S to chase a response. And Ive explained above why I think its reasonable for the £100 
excess to be deducted from that figure  leaving £50 compensation owed to Mrs S. 
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited must now pay Mrs S £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by her having the chase them. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Vitality Health to pay the compensation award Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman