DRN-3079632
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc didnt identify a subsidence issue at a property he 
was buying, before offering him a mortgage.
What happened
Mr B purchased a property. He took out a mortgage with Santander, via a broker. Before 
making a mortgage offer, Santander arranged a mortgage valuation survey.
Mr B says, after the purchase and during renovations, his builder discovered the property 
was suffering from subsidence. Mr B says he didnt see the damage when he viewed the 
property prior to purchase, as it was covered by plaster and wallpaper. 
Mr B complained that Santander didnt identify the subsidence issue when it surveyed the 
property. Santander explained its valuation survey was for mortgage purposes only. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service, but one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. Because Mr B remained unhappy, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage application. This shows that Mr B and/or his 
broker selected for mortgage purposes when choosing the valuation type. Ive not seen 
anything that shows Santander was instructed to complete a more in-depth survey.
Santander has also provided the mortgage offer letter, which included the tariff of mortgage 
charges and the valuation for mortgage purposes (i.e. the valuation report).
The tariff of mortgage charges includes the heading valuation fee. This information explains 
the valuation report is used to calculate how much Santander will lend and its separate from 
any valuation or surveys the buyer may want to commission. The information explains some 
mortgages offer a free standard valuation, but other homebuyer or structural survey options 
are available at a cost. The application form shows the free valuation was selected.
The valuation report confirmed that no repairs or actions were required as a condition of the 
mortgage. It also included the following statement, in a section marked important: This is a 
valuation for mortgage purposes which has been made to allow us to assess the property as 
a suitable security. Please refer to the guide provided to you on valuation services. Please 
note that this valuation is not a building survey or condition report and defects which a 
detailed inspection should reveal may not be discovered or commented upon.
Santander has also provided a copy of its mortgages guide, which it says would have been 
given to Mr B. This includes a section on valuations and surveys. This information explains 
that an independent registered valuer will be instructed; and a copy of the valuation report 
will be enclosed with the mortgage offer. The information also explains the valuation is for 
Santanders purposes; a mortgage valuation is not a survey; and it doesnt advise on the 
condition of the property in any detail. It also strongly advises the buyer to obtain a 
survey, so they are aware of its condition before committing to the purchase.
Based on Santanders submissions, its my understanding the surveyor was independent. If 
so, Santander isnt responsible for the surveyors acts or omissions. In any event, I havent 
seen anything that leads me to believe a competent surveyor ought to have identified the 
damage in question, during a valuation survey. Mr B has explained the damage wasnt 
visible until plaster and wallpaper was removed. Therefore, Im not persuaded that the 
damage would have been evident during a limited valuation inspection.
Im also satisfied that the information provided to Mr B by Santander was clear, in respect of 
the purpose of the valuation survey and its limitations. As such, I cant reasonably decide 
Santander misled him.
Mr B says he relied on his broker, who told him Santander would do a survey. Mr B says he 
thought the valuation report was a full survey, due to what he was told by the broker. I cant 
comment on the broker here. Im only considering Santanders actions. However, If Mr B 
considers he was misled by the broker, he can make a complaint to that business.
Having considered the information provided, I cant reasonably uphold this complaint against 
Santander.
Finally, I note this service was recently contacted by a claim management company. It asked 
for a copy of the valuation report, noting the broker didnt have a copy. Ive seen this report 
has been provided to Mr B, by Santander, when it made the mortgage offer and when it 
responded to his complaint. Nonetheless, our investigator will send Mr B another copy.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman