DRN-1995790
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that an annual service under his HomeCare Four policy, underwritten by 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), was rescheduled. 
What happened
In January 2020 an appointment was booked for BG to service Mr Ps boiler as part of his 
BG HomeCare cover. The appointment was scheduled for 12 March 2020.  BG contacted Mr 
P prior to this to cancel the appointment and offer Mr P an alternative appointment in May 
2020.
 
Mr P said the call handler told him the appointment needed to be rescheduled because of an 
emergency. Mr P was unhappy about this and complained. Mr P told BG he is self-employed 
and suffered a financial loss because hed refused work to be able to accommodate the 
appointment. Mr P said he wanted compensation. BG say Mr P declined the appointment in 
May 2020 as he couldnt confirm if he would be free that day. 
About two weeks later, BG called Mr P. BG says it apologised for needing to reschedule his 
appointment with six days notice and told him that emergency breakdowns were taking 
priority. BG offered Mr P £20 compensation for the cancelled appointment. Mr P wasnt 
happy with this. BG says Mr P told it he wanted substantially more than this. 
 
BG then increased its offer to £30. BG said Mr P told it this was still unacceptable because 
of the earnings hed lost. BG said Mr P told it he didnt accept its excuse that there was an 
emergency and that no other fitter was available. BG said Mr P asked for £150 
compensation, but said that if BG wouldnt pay this, he would accept a reduction to the cost 
of his policy when it renewed. 
BG issued its final response (FRL). It agreed that the level of service was not to the 
expected standard and apologised. It explained that because of COVID-19, it was 
minimising the work it can complete and only emergency appointments were being 
completed at the time. It said it would consider a discount at renewal once Mr P has his 
renewal documents. BG did not increase its compensation of £30 for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr P.  
Mr P was unhappy with BGs response and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He felt BGs award of £30 was fair and 
reasonable. He wasnt persuaded Mr P had suffered loss of earning because Mr P said he 
was unable to provide any evidence.
 
Our investigator said BG had told him the reason for rescheduling Mr Ps appointment was 
because of higher than expected volume of emergency breakdowns for vulnerable 
customers without heating and hot water. And our investigator felt it was reasonable for BG 
to cancel Mr Ps appointment for this reason.
Our investigator pointed out that Mr Ps policy says BG will carry out visits within a 
reasonable time, unless something beyond BGs control makes this impossible. And that if 
this happens, BG will let the customer know and arrange another time. He said that Mr Ps 
policy states that where there is a local or national high demand for BGs services, it 
prioritises breakdowns and may need to re-arrange annual services. Our investigator felt six 
days notice of cancellation was reasonable.
Mr P did not agree with our investigators view. He said that when BG cancelled his 
appointment there was no mention of vulnerable people and he was simply told we have an 
emergency.  He said he didnt see how an emergency could be predicted and he felt BG 
were using coronavirus as an excuse. Mr P requested an ombudsmans decision.
 
Mr P contacted us again in August 2020 and explained that a second service appointment 
had been cancelled after hed booked another day off work. Mr P also said that it is very 
likely that his boiler is no longer covered by the makers ten-year guarantee because BG 
hasnt given him his annual service. Mr P said that hed now paid for two annual services 
that he hasnt had. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall not be upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed Mr Ps policy documentation. Mr Ps renewal notice describes his cover as 
HomeCare Four - Boiler, controls and central heating cover including an annual service, 
plus repairs to plumbing, drains and home electrics. And I can see on page 28 of Mr Ps 
HomeCare range Terms & Conditions booklet, under the Reasonable timescales sub-
heading it says:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
So Mr Ps policy terms allow BG to reschedule visits where there are matters beyond its 
control preventing it from attending.
 
BG explained in its FRL that it is minimising its work to emergency appointments because of 
COVID-19. Mr Ps appointment was booked for mid-March 2020. There were government 
restrictions on entering other households in force during March 2020, so I dont think its 
unreasonable or unfair for BG to have postponed Mr Ps service to try to help ensure the 
safety of Mr P and the engineer.
Mr Ps policy terms allow for BG to reschedule appointments for things beyond BGs control. 
I think a pandemic is something that was beyond BGs control. So I dont think BG did 
anything wrong in cancelling Mr Ps appointment and offering him an alternative, which is 
what I would have expected it to do given the terms of Mr Ps policy. And I think six days 
notice of BG needing to reschedule Mr Ps appointment is a reasonable amount notice.
Mr P told us he felt BG was using coronavirus as an excuse. Whilst BG might not have 
mentioned vulnerable customers when it called to reschedule his appointment, I dont think it 
needed to provide Mr P with further reasoning than it did. It is accepted BG told Mr P it 
needed to cancel the appointment because of emergencies. And I think this explanation is a 
sufficient one to have given Mr P. And in any event, BG explained in the FRL issued shortly afterwards that it was limiting its appointments to emergencies and why. So I think BG gave 
further information to explain the situation where this was useful. 
Mr P says he is self-employed and turned down work to accommodate the appointment. I 
understand the postponement of the appointment would have been inconvenient for Mr P. 
But I dont think it would be fair for me to instruct BG to compensate Mr P for £150 of lost 
earnings that he cant provide evidence for. Particularly when BG hasnt breached the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ps policy. 
Mr P said that hed be willing to accept a reduction in his premiums for the following years 
cover as compensation for the postponement. But BG didnt depart from the terms and 
conditions of the policy for that policy year by trying to schedule another time to attend. And 
BG has already offered Mr P £30 compensation for the inconvenience of needing to 
reschedule his service. I think this is fair and reasonable.  So I dont think BG need to offer 
anything further to Mr P as compensation for trying to reschedule his service.
 
Mr P has told us that BG cancelled another later appointment and that because of this, his 
boiler may now be out of warranty. I am unable to consider these points as part of this 
decision because they were raised with us after BG issued its FRL to Mr P about the first 
cancelled appointment. If Mr P wishes to pursue these matters further, he will need to raise 
them first with BG, if he hasnt already done so.
  
For the reasons given above, I shall not be upholding Mr Ps complaint. I think the £30 
compensation already offered to Mr P by BG is fair and reasonable to recognise the 
inconvenience of the appointment not going ahead as originally planned. And I wont be 
asking BG to increase its award for this reason.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr P the £30.00 
compensation it has already offered him, if it hasnt already done so.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman