DRN-3824217
The complaint
Mr S complains that AJ Bell Management Limited failed to meet its obligations in accepting 
his SIPP application and subsequent investment in Eco Capital. 
What happened
Mr S transferred his existing pension to a SIPP and invested in shares in Eco Capital. Mr S 
has told us he was looking for additional funding towards his daughters wedding in 2012. 
The SIPP and Pilling & Co (the investment partner appointed in this case) application forms 
were signed on 27 August 2012. 
Pilling & Co responded confirming it didnt provide pension transfer advice and asking Mr S 
to confirm if advice had been taken and, if so, from whom or if no advice had been sought. 
The form stated: 
Under no circumstances is Pilling ever responsible for advising you on the suitability 
of transferring existing schemes into our SIPP. This decision is your own and 
transfers are, without exception, accepted on this basis.
Mr S listed himself and his wife where asked who he took advice from in respect of the 
transaction. 
Pilling & Cos terms of business with Mr S confirmed the level of service as execution-only 
and defined this as: 
Execution Only means we do not advise you on the merits of the transactions you 
make or assess the suitability of the investments for you. The implications are that 
you may not have recourse through the Financial Ombudsman Service or the 
Financial Service Compensation Scheme.
On 29 August 2012, Pilling & Co submitted Mr S application to AJ Bell. The SIPP application 
form states that its a dealing SIPP and its expressly a Pilling & Co SIPP, in association with 
Sippcentre. 
Under the investment options section of the SIPP application, Mr S chose investment 
partner, Pilling & Cos details were recorded. The section also reads: 
Please confirm your chosen Investment option(s). 
Please visit our website for a full list of our investment partners. You can specify up 
to three investment partners on this application form. If you wish to specify more than 
this, please use our additional investment partner form which is available from the 
literature section of our website.
Under adviser details it just refers back to page four where the investment partner (Pilling & 
Co) is recorded. 
The SIPP key features document stated:
What can I invest in?
The Sippcentre SIPP has been designed to allow you considerable flexibility over 
your choice of investments. We offer various options through which you can invest 
all, or part, of your SIPP funds with our panel of investment partners. We also give 
you the flexibility to invest SIPP funds either through other investment managers, 
who are not on our panel of investment partners, or in a wide range of other 
permitted investments e.g. commercial property. Investments that are not made 
through our panel of investment partners are referred to below as off panel 
investments. You can invest with our panel of investment partners through the 
following options: 
B) Discretionary fund managers
You can appoint one of our investment partners to manage funds held under your 
SIPP, either on an advisory or discretionary basis. The range of investments 
available and charges varies by investment partner. You will need to sign a separate 
agreement with your chosen investment partner.
An unregulated introducer sent Mr S a loan agreement for the sum of £21,347.26. This loan 
was provided in conjunction with the Eco Capital investment. 
Mr S existing pension was transferred, and he invested in Eco Capital. On 26 September 
2012, Mr S emailed AJ Bell and said: 
Further to my phone conversation this morning, please place an order to purchase 
36,000 shares in Eco Capital Investments Corp, on the Frankfurt stock exchange, 
their ticker symbol is 6IW, their ISIN number is CA 27887 V 1022, using my Pillings 
SIPP Pension [sic], pension account number [Mr S account number].
My full name is [Mr S full name]
Please place this order today 26th September 2012
AJ Bell responded saying: 
Please note you have issued the below email to Sippcentre in error. I have copied 
your financial advisers into my response for information.
If you have any queries please do not hesitate to contact me.
Mr S responded asking if there was anything he needed to do. AJ Bell said: 
You will need to contact Pilling & Co to find out if any further action is required from 
you, as we do not get involved with investment instructions at Sippcentre.
I would suggest speaking to your financial adviser in the first instance if you are 
unsure who to contact.
Pilling & Co sent Mr S a contract note for his investment in Eco Capital shares, this stated 
that he was an execution-only client and said:
We thank you for your instructions and have bought on your behalf as agents. 
Pilling & Co wrote to Mr S on 24 May 2013, it said: 
Eco Capital Investments:Please be advised that the above stock has been delisted and at present it is not 
possible to trade in Eco Capital via a stock market. If you hold this investment within 
your Pilling SIPP it is currently listed on your valuation as having no price and as 
such is detailed as having no value.
Mr S received a demand for £11,000 from HMRC, for effectively accessing funds from his 
pension in this way. 
AJ Bells relationship with Pilling & Co
AJ Bell provided us with the contract between it and Pilling & Co dated 12 September 2002. 
This set out: 
THE SERVICES 
In consideration of the payment by STL in its capacity as Trustee of the PCO 
Charges from the Designated SIPP Account as provided in Schedule 6 PCO agrees:
(a) to provide or arrange Investment Management, Dealing, and Custodial 
services in respect of Designated Assets subject to the terms and conditions 
of this Agreement; and
(b) to administer such services in accordance with Part 2 of Schedule;
(c) to enter into an Investment Management Agreement (the Investment 
Management Agreement) incorporating PCOs terms and conditions with the 
Member.
And 
Inland Revenue & Compliance
PCO warrants that it has put in place systems designed to ensure that it will not 
execute any transaction or accept any instructions (including transactions or 
transactions or instructions relating to corporate actions) to acquire Investments on 
behalf of STL in relation to the Scheme except to the extent such Investments fall 
within the categories of assets permitted to be held in connection with the Scheme 
which are notified by STL to PCO in writing from time to time and current details of 
which as at the date of this Agreement are set out in Schedule 2. 
PCO will seek guidance from STL if it is in any doubt as to whether a particular 
Investment is a Permitted Investment. STLs decision will be final in this regard and 
will override any instruction given to PCO by a Member. 
PCO will notify STL promptly in writing upon its becoming aware that an Investment 
which is not a Permitted Investment has been acquired in connection with the 
Scheme or (subject to receiving a notification from STL in accordance with Clause 
5.1 above that an Investment is no longer a Permitted Investment) that an Investment 
already held in connection with the Scheme has ceased to be a Permitted Investment 
and will take all reasonable steps to carry out STLs reasonable instructions (having 
regard to its legal and regulatory responsibilities) regarding the disposal of such 
investments at the earliest reasonable opportunity. 
5.4 PCO will indemnify STL for the amount of any loss arising from the acquisition 
and/or disposal of any investment which is not a permitted investment and any penalty or tax charge imposed by the Inland Revenue to the extent that such loss 
arises from the proven negligence, wilful default or fraud of PCO. 
5.5 PCO undertakes that it will at all times have regard to the sole purpose of the 
Scheme which is to provide pension and lump sum benefits in accordance with the 
Scheme Rules and will ensure that investment decisions made by it are consistent 
with this requirement. 
Schedule 2 sets out the permitted investments and investments that were prohibited: 
Permitted investments are governed by the Personal Pensions (Restriction on 
Discretion to Approve) (Permitted Investments) Regulations 2001 and any re-
enactments thereof or any other investment permitted by the Inland Revenue. 
The following guidelines are based on STLs understanding of current Inland 
Revenue practice. It may vary from time to time and, in addition, STL reserves the 
right to decline to accept any investment instruction. 

The following are prohibited:
Investments not readily realisable  these are investments in which 
transactions on a recognised or designated investment exchange are 
insufficiently frequent or regular for a reliable quoted price to be available. 
Loans  SIPPs must not provide loans to any party.
Transactions with connected persons  Schemes must not enter into any 
investment transactions with a member or any person connected with a 
member. Connected persons are defined in section 839 ICTA.
Unquoted securities  the Scheme must not purchase or hold any security not 
quoted on any recognised stock exchange. This includes securities traded 
over the counter or on a matched bargain basis. 
The obligations of and services to be provided by the parties to the agreement are set out in 
detail in the subsequent schedules. 
AJ Bell provided us with a document called adviser handshake, this said:
Permitted investments
Before making an investment on behalf of a client, you will seek guidance from us if 
you are unsure as to whether it is permitted by HM Revenue & Customs, or by our 
own policy. Information on what investments we will permit is on our website. In all 
cases our decision in respect of permitted investments will be final. 
You are responsible for assessing individual investments and their suitability for your 
clients, and for carrying out appropriate due diligence checks. Our confirmation that a 
particular investment can be held under one of our products must not be taken as 
any indication of the merits or financial or regulatory standing of the investment or its 
provider, or that it is suitable for any client.
AJ Bell has told us that between 30 May 2012 and 2 November 2012, 38 Pilling & Co clients 
invested in Eco Capital. Mr S made his investment on 2 October 2012. Eco Capital was, at 
the time, a permitted investment under its agreement with Pilling & Co as it was shares listed 
on a recognised stock exchange (Frankfurt Stock Exchange). Background to the complaint
Mr S complained to AJ Bell and Pilling & Co in July 2017. Amongst other things in response, 
AJ Bell said: 
Pilling & Co first became registered with AJ Bell Investcentre in October 2002, which 
was before the 2009 Thematic Review. They had prior to that entered into a Self 
Invested Personal Pension Plan Agreement with Sippdeal Trustees Limited (STL) on 
12 September 2002 (SIPP Agreement), which governed the basis upon which they 
provided investment management, dealing, custodial and related administrative 
services for members of the Sipdeal e-sipp self-invested personal pension scheme 
(Scheme) who chose to use their services.
And
Pilling & Co were also required to enter into a separate investment management 
agreement with each member which governed the basis upon which they provided 
those investment management services for the member's SIPP.
Unhappy with the response he received, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
In his submissions to this service Mr S told us that he was looking for additional funding for 
his daughters wedding, he wasnt informed and didnt know that accessing money using his 
pension (even via a loan) before pensionable age or outside the prescribed methods was 
unlawful and would expose him to tax liabilities and penalties. 
He said he came across the unregulated introducer searching the internet, who offered him 
an arrangement via Pilling & Co and AJ Bell. He was then referred to Pilling & Co. The 
introducer offered Mr S a significant loan for transferring his pension and investing it as 
advised. The introducer assured him that his pension would be safe.
The introducer dealt with Mr S primarily over the phone. It provided him with the SIPP and 
Pilling & Co application forms. The SIPP should be rendered unenforceable by application of 
Section 27. As it can be inferred that the unregulated introducer induced Mr S into the 
arrangement.
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. In summary he found that: 
AJ Bell allowed the investment to happen by opening the stockbroking account, but it 
was the stockbroker not AJ Bell which executed the instruction to invest in the 
shares. 
Whilst AJ Bell did have to treat Mr S fairly and act with due skill, care and diligence, 
he didnt think there was anything more it could have done in this case. 
There wasnt anything about Mr S application that ought to have been viewed as 
anomalous by AJ Bell. 
Mr S presented as a client introduced by a regulated firm applying for a SIPP which 
allowed customers to invest in shares using one of a number well established 
stockbroking firms, including Pilling and Co whose services Mr S was using. 
So, AJ Bell shouldnt have declined to accept the application. 
The shares Mr S invested in were being used for pension liberation but theres no 
evidence that AJ Bell was aware of the involvement of the unregulated firm in the 
background. And the shares were listed on a recognised stock exchange and there was no evidence from the time that AJ Bell ought to have been aware that these 
were being used to facilitate pension liberation.  
As part of our investigations, we asked AJ Bell for further information about the overall 
business it received and the circumstances that led to it later banning further investments in 
Eco Capital. It explained that: 
Investments made via Pilling and Co, as the appointed investment services provider, 
werent visible to AJ Bell. It also didnt facilitate these investments as they were made 
via the investment service provided by Pilling and Co. 
Under its terms of agreement with the investment services provider, AJ Bell restricted 
the range of investments Pilling and Co could permit SIPP clients to make, broadly to 
those which would now be categorised by the regulator as standard assets. 
The investment in Eco Capital fell within that range of investments as it was listed on 
a recognised stock exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. 
The regulator hasnt issued any guidance on the extent of due diligence which a 
SIPP operator is required to undertake before permitting a retail customer to invest in 
such assets on an execution-only basis. So, there was no requirement on it to 
undertake specific due diligence in respect of this investment or to require Pilling & 
Co to do so. 
38 customers invested in Eco Capital between 30 May 2012 and 2 November 2012. 
Mr S made his investment on 2 October 2012. Six customers invested in Eco Capital 
on or after 18 October 2012, when AJ Bell began its investigation into the 
investments in Eco Capital. None were made after 2 November 2012, when it 
imposed the ban. 
Pilling & Co blocked two customers from investing in Eco Capital after the ban had 
been imposed. 
The business introduced by Pilling & Co wasnt of a level, in the context of AJ Bells 
overall business, that would put it on notice of any potential issues. 
Customers like Mr S invested in Eco Capital in order to access their pension funds in 
breach of HMRC rules and if it had blocked the investment, they wouldve found 
another SIPP provider via which they could make the investment. 
Mr S received over 50% of his pension via a loan. 
AJ Bell identified that Eco Capital may be involved in pension liberation activities as 
part of its wider efforts to combat pension liberation. It initiated enquiries when it 
received an application to transfer a SIPP from one of its third-party products to a 
SIPP with Pilling and Co appointed as the investment services provider. Its 
suspicions were prompted by the fact that the existing SIPP only held illiquid assets 
and had £1,200 in outstanding fees. 
As a result of this, it had a telephone conversation with Pilling & Co on 18 October 
2012. During the call, it was informed that a number of clients were being introduced 
to them in order to open an AJ Bell Investcentre SIPP, in respect of which Pilling & 
Co would be appointed to provide the investment services, to transfer in existing 
pensions and then invest on an execution-only basis in Eco Capital. And, that once 
that had been done, the client would receive a loan equivalent to up to 50% of the 
value of their pension. On this basis it was concerned that investments in Eco Capital 
were being used for pension liberation. It was also informed that the firm introducing 
the business was an unregulated business which it had previously identified as being 
involved in what it considered to be suspicious activities. 
The issue was escalated internally and two weeks later on 2 November 2012 the 
decision was made to put a ban on investments in Eco Capital. On the basis that the 
business was being introduced to Pilling & Co by an unregulated introducer and the 
linked loan arrangements. Pilling & Co initially refused to block the investment because it believed it was a 
legitimate investment and in line with its commercial agreement, because it was 
listed on a HMRC recognised stock exchange. 
After further discussions AJ Bell contacted the anti-fraud department at HMRC to 
notify it of its concerns. Shortly after contact from HMRC, Pilling & Co informed it that 
it would no longer be permitting investments in Eco Capital. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I sent Mr S 
and AJ Bell my provisional decision, explaining why I didnt think this complaint should be 
upheld. I said I would consider anything either party wanted to add. Mr S disagreed with my 
decision and made further submissions. Ive considered his submissions in their entirety 
here Ive included a brief summary of what I consider to be the key points. The focus of the 
submissions is on the role of Pilling & Co but, for the sake of completeness, Ive summarised 
these here too:
The provisional decision doesnt properly consider the regulatory requirements set 
out in the regulators handbook with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in 
particular, COBS 9 and COBS 10 or the judicial authority relevant to this transaction. 
The role of Pilling & Co clearly extended far beyond that of stockbroker, it was 
undertaking key actions in respect of the establishment of the SIPP, which facilitated 
the transfer of Mr S pension and the subsequent investment. 
Mr S SIPP application form seen and submitted by Pilling & Co indicated that Pilling 
& Co was both his financial adviser and his investment partner. 
The declaration signed by Mr S confirming that he sought advice from himself, and 
his wife was accepted without question. 
Mr S couldnt be a non-advised customer of Pilling & Co for the purposes of 
transferring his pension and establishing the SIPP. 
Pilling & Cos business model sought to impose an artificial distinction and limitation 
to its role. COBS 9 must be considered in respect of its role. 
The application being accepted by Pilling & Co on an execution-only basis doesnt 
mean that it complied with its duties under COBS 2.1.1R.
Pilling & Cos terms and conditions seeking to limit its responsibility are ineffective 
and do not exclude or limit its responsibilities under COBS, particularly COBS 9 and 
COBS 2.1.1R.
Pilling & Co cant facilitate the establishment of a SIPP and thereby facilitate the 
investment on an execution-only basis circumventing the requirements of COBS 9.
The provisional decision fails to properly consider the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, in particular 
COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 2.1.2R. 
Pilling & Co failed to comply with these regulatory obligations. 
Pilling & Co received just under 40 applications in six months from consumers 
presenting as direct clients looking to invest in a single non-diversified investment 
listed on an overseas stock exchange supposedly because the investment was on an 
online tip board. This was a significant number of applications given the nature of the 
business. This should have been a red flag. 
Given the timing of Mr S investment, Pilling & Co should have had concerns about 
what was happening long before he made his application to it. 
Its clear that the unregulated introducer must have seen Pilling & Co as an entity 
which would simply process the applications received without conducting proper due 
diligence or having proper regard to the nature of the business it was receiving.  
Whilst Mr S case involves a loan back from the investment, he has lost the 
remainder of his pension as a result of Pilling & Cos failure to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. Mr S wasnt provided with warnings about the risk involved in the transaction and he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction if he had been told that he risked losing 
all of his pension. 
The provisional decision absolves Pilling & Co of responsibility because of a 
purported execution-only document signed by Mr S  a driver with no investment or 
pension experience  and completely ignores Pilling & Cos role in the establishment 
of the SIPP. 
Significant weight has been placed on the shares being listed on the Frankfurt stock 
exchange. It cant be said that the investment satisfies the definition of a non-
complex financial instrument or that Mr S would have understood the characteristics 
of an investment listed on a non-UK exchange.
Mr S has referenced some case law in support of his position in particular the 
judgment of HHJ Russen QC in the case of Simon Boxall v- Bank House 
Investment Management Limited
In relation to AJ Bells role, Mr S said: 
We have accepted that AJ Bell was in effect not liable for Mr S business because 
Pilling & Co was his financial adviser. 
The provisional decision absolves AJ Bell partly on the basis that responsibility for 
investment due diligence was on Pilling & Co. 
It cannot be fair that AJ Bell is absolved of responsibility because of the involvement 
of Pilling & Co and then that Pilling & Co isnt responsible  resulting in a situation 
where two regulated entities involved in and facilitating a pension transfer and 
investment with neither taking responsibility. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision, Ive largely reiterated these below, 
expanding in parts only to deal with the arguments made in response to my provisional 
decision. As set out above Mr S submissions relate predominantly to the role of Pilling & Co, 
this is being considered under a separate complaint  here, Ill deal only with his comments 
about AJ Bells role. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Relevant considerationsIve carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view.
Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878). Im therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint. 
The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr S case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. However, I think it is important 
to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im required to take 
into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of 
difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a 
legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that AJ Bell was under any obligation to 
advise Mr S on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which did not have 
the required permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same thing as advising Mr S on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and I 
am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr S SIPP 
application, AJ Bell complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act 
with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the rules 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what AJ Bell could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view that in order for AJ Bell to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular 
applications for investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind.
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that AJ Bell was under any obligation to 
advise Mr S on the SIPP and/or the underlying investment in Eco Capital. Refusing to accept 
an application is not the same thing as advising Mr S on the merits of investing and/or 
switching to the SIPP. 
Did AJ Bell act fairly and reasonably in accepting Mr S introduction from Pilling & Co 
at the time?
Pilling & Co is an established longstanding UK regulated business with the requisite 
permissions to undertake business such as this. When this introduction was made to it, AJ Bell had been dealing with and had an agreement with Pilling & Co for around ten years. I 
think AJ Bell could take some comfort in this. 
AJ Bell had a detailed agreement in place with Pilling & Co which regulated their 
relationship. This set out in detail the responsibilities of the respective parties. Which I think 
would reasonably also provide AJ Bell with some comfort in accepting business from Pilling 
& Co. 
Ive also considered the volume and nature of the AJ Bell accepted from Pilling & Co. Over 
the course of around five months 38 customers invested in Eco Capital, in the context of the 
level of business AJ Bell was receiving, I dont think this ought to have been concerning in 
and of itself. 
Its clear that AJ Bell was monitoring the business it accepted, as a result of which, it initiated 
enquiries which ultimately led to it discovering issues with Eco Capital, having received an 
anomalous introduction from Pilling & Co. As a result of these enquiries, AJ Bell discovered 
the involvement of an unregulated introducer it had concerns about.   
This all came to light after Mr S made his investment. Based on the evidence Ive seen; I 
dont think AJ Bell was aware of these factors before this. Ive also not seen anything in 
Mr S case which ought to have alerted AJ Bell to the involvement of an unregulated 
introducer in the transaction. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for AJ Bell to accept Mr S 
referral from Pilling & Co. 
Did AJ Bell treat Mr S fairly by facilitating the SIPP investments? 
The investment was shares listed on a recognised stock exchange. The investment was part 
of a pension liberation scheme. 
As Ive made clear above, SIPP operators have a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business that they administer. SIPP operators should undertake enquiries about the nature 
or quality of an investment proposed before determining whether to accept or decline it into 
their SIPPs. 
AJ Bell didnt promote or advise Mr S about the investment and its role wasnt to ensure that 
the investments were suitable for him or in line with his objectives/attitude to risk or 
experience. Nevertheless, as Ive said above, AJ Bell ought to have carried out some due 
diligence on the proposed investment. I do, however, note that in this case that some 
responsibility for this was overtaken by the investment partner (Pilling & Co). 
AJ Bell had an agreement with Pilling & Co which limited the types of investments it could 
make via its SIPPs. I think this would reasonably provide AJ Bell with some comfort, in 
respect of the types of investments  broadly speaking standard investments  that would be 
placed/held. 
I havent been presented with a lot of evidence about the investment. Ive reviewed all of the 
information that Ive been able to obtain and  taking everything into account  Ive not seen 
enough to conclude that AJ Bell shouldnt have accepted the investment Mr S made at the 
time he made it. It transpired that the investment was part of a pension liberation scheme, 
but I cant consider whether or not AJ Bell ought to have accepted the investments in 
question with the benefit of hindsight. I can only consider what information wouldve been 
available to AJ Bell at the time had it conducted sufficient due diligence. Based on what Ive seen, there wasnt enough information for AJ Bell to have been 
concerned at the time of Mr S investment. Within weeks of Mr S investment a suspicious 
transfer application led to AJ Bell making enquiries, as a result of which it became 
concerned that Eco Capital was being used for pension liberation, which ultimately led to it 
taking action to stop further investments in Eco Capital. 
Mr S has asserted that my conclusion that Im not persuaded that AJ Bell didnt act fairly 
reasonably is based largely on Pilling & Cos involvement in the transaction. That isnt 
accurate, Ive set out above in some detail why I think in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint that AJ Bell acted fairly and reasonably.
I hope Mr S understands that the outcome Ive reached in this case isnt a reflection of my 
view of the seriousness of whats happened in respect of his pension. Its clear Mr S lost a 
substantial portion of his pension and incurred an unauthorised payment charge; this will 
have no doubt been a source of significant distress and have impacted on his retirement 
plans  but, Ive not seen enough to conclude that this loss was as a result of a failing on AJ 
Bells part. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman