DRN-2022694
 
The complaint
Mr G says Western Circle Ltd trading at the time as Cashfloat irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
In June 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint about loans 6,7 and 8. 
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision.
This complaint is about eight loans Cashfloat provided to Mr G between October 2017 
and July 2019. Mr Gs borrowing history is as follows:
 
 
Date Taken 
Date 
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Repayment
03/10/2017 31/10/2017 2 £300.00 £188.74
28/02/2018 21/03/2018 3 £400.00 £187.54
21/03/2018 23/03/2018 2 £500.00 £341.78
27/03/2018 25/04/2018 3 £500.00 £239.91
03/05/2018 26/06/2018 4 £500.00 £187.33
10/08/2018 24/08/2018 3 £600.00 £318.68
03/12/2018 21/01/2019 3 £400.00 £184.52
12/07/2019 21/08/2019 2 £200.00 £144.95
 
There was a gap in lending between repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2 of around 
four months. As Mr G had only taken out one loan before loan 1, I think this created a 
new lending relationship. So, in my view, Mr G had two chains of lending with Cashfloat, 
loan1 and then loans 2  8.Mr G says that Cashfloat failed to carry out effective affordability checks before giving 
the borrowing. If they had been carried out the loans wouldn't have been given to Mr G who 
had to borrow from other lenders to pay back other loans.
In our adjudicators latest assessment, he upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought the 
loans from loan 6 onwards shouldn't have been given. Cashfloat disagreed with this view.
It said that Mr Gs received higher than the average income and he was living with 
his parents at the time of giving these loans. So, it said it was reasonable to accept his non-
discretionary outgoings were minimal. It also noted that the gaps in lending became 
longer at the end of the borrowing and Mr Gs indebtedness reduced. Mr Gs final loan was 
the lowest it had been at £200. Cashfloat also said that all Mr Gs loans were repaid earlier 
than planned and that reasonable and proportionate checks had shown that the loans 
were affordable at each stage.
As the parties are not in agreement the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
anyloan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
timeduring which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to 
establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Having done this, Im intending 
to agree with our adjudicator and uphold Mr Gs complaint about loans 6, 7 and 8 but to 
explain why in some more detail.
There appears to be no ongoing dispute about loans 1-5 and I dont intend to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint about these loans. It was still early on in the relationship and based on the 
income and the outgoings Mr G had declared I think it was reasonable to give Mr G these 
loans.
By the time Mr G borrowed loan 6, I think Cashfloat should have carried further and more in-
depth checks. This was the fifth loan in a chain of borrowing and Cashfloat should have 
looked further into Mr Gs circumstances.
Mr G has provided his statements from the time as well as a credit report. I have 
looked through the many pages of all this paperwork. I can see that at the time of Mr G 
taking out Loan 6 as our adjudicator said, Mr G had been spending a significant portion of 
his income on gambling. This is enough, in my view to uphold Mr Gs complaint, but I can 
also see he had taken out a number of other short-term loans with other providers at that 
time too.
Taking this information into account I think by now Cashfloat should have been alerted to 
the fact that Mr G was likely having problems managing money and I dont think it should 
have given Mr G this loan.
And had Cashfloat carried out similar checks at the time of Mr Gs seventh loan it 
wouldve likely seen that he had taken out a number of other short-term loans a few days 
earlier. So, again, I dont think his situation had greatly improved and therefore Cashfloat 
ought to have concluded that Mr G wasnt in a position to take on this loan.
Mr G took out Loan 8 on 12 July 2018. There had been a gap in lending between the time Mr 
G repaid loan 7 and took out Loan 8 of just under six months. In some cases, this 
might mean that the lender didn't need to carry out such detailed checks because this gap 
might have created a whole new chain of lending. But I dont think this was the case here. I 
think taking into account Mr Gs previous lending and what it should have known about Mr 
Gs financial circumstances, proportionate checks this time should have meant Cashfloat as 
a prudent lender should have verified the information it was receiving.
Mr Gs bank statement from the time shows he was overdrawn by nearly £3,000 and that 
Mr G had been gambling and was still repaying other short-term loans. So, I dont think 
there had been any improvement to Mr Gs overall financial position compared to when 
loans 6 and 7 were provided. So, I think if proportionate checks had been carried out it would have noted that Mr G was likely having problems managing his money and I dont think this 
loan was affordable or the repayments sustainable for Mr G either.
Ive thought about everything Cashfloat has said including what it said about Mr G 
repaying his loans earlier than planned. I dont think this necessarily shows the loans were 
affordable.The fact Mr G did go onto repay the loan successfully and earlier than planned 
doesn't mean he did so from sustainable sources. Indeed, the fact that he then returned for 
further lending shortly after repaying his loans, in my opinion shows that it was more likely 
than not Mr G was having wider financial problems and if he had to borrow from elsewhere 
to meet his repayments that wasn't sustainable.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 6,7 and 8 and Cashfloat should 
put things right.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information it might wish me to 
consider before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I sent both parties a copy of my decision. Mr G came back to me to say he was happy to 
accept my findings. Cashfloat hasnt responded. So I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. I am upholding loans 6,7 and 8.
putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on 6, 7 and 8;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans 6,7 and 8 from Mr Gs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. 
Cashfloat must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman