DRN-2560303
The complaint
Mr W complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr W was given a single loan by TFS. He borrowed £6,500 in February 2016 and agreed to 
repay the loan over 54 monthly instalments. Mr Ws loan was guaranteed by a family 
member. The guarantor has brought a separate complaint about TFSs decision to allow 
them to act as the guarantor that I have decided separately. So I dont need to consider the 
addition of the guarantor any further in this decision, however I will take account of the 
redress that has been paid to the guarantor when deciding what compensation TFS needs to 
pay to Mr W. Mr Ws loan had an outstanding balance when he brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think the checks 
TFS had carried out before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And she thought that 
better checks would have led to his loan application being declined. So she didnt think TFS 
should have given this loan to Mr W and asked the lender to pay him some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice 
this meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr W.
TFS gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors.
The credit check highlighted that Mr W hadnt always managed his borrowing well in the 
past. He had defaulted on a number of other accounts which still remained on his credit file. 
And he had been made bankrupt around the same time. I accept that those problems had 
taken place a number of years earlier, and so might not be representative of Mr Ws current 
financial position. But I think they should have led to TFS at least undertaking some more 
detailed investigations.
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of more than four years. So, given what I have said above, I would 
expect that TFS would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Ws financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think 
that the checks it did were enough. I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to 
independently check the true state of Mr Ws finances before agreeing the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean that Mr Ws complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TFS that Mr W couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements, and what hes 
told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown TFS.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS 
should have carried out. I do think TFS needed evidence to corroborate what Mr W said was 
happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking at Mr Ws bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks 
might have shown.Mr Ws bank statements show clear evidence that he was facing problems managing his 
expenditure. In the month before the loan was agreed I can see that Mr W spent over half 
his normal income on what appear to be online gambling transactions. He regularly 
supported his expenditure with payments from a relative. I havent seen anything that 
suggests this sort of spending was a one-off or likely to reduce in the future. So based on 
what Mr W told TFS about his other expenditure it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude that 
he would be able to afford his repayments in a sustainable manner.
So in summary, I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. 
And I think better checks would have identified Mr Ws gambling expenditure that would 
have led a responsible lender to decline his loan application. So I dont think TFS should 
have given this loan to Mr W and needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
I have considered the current status of Mr Ws loan, although I appreciate that might have 
changed since the last statement that was provided to us. So the redress I am directing 
below will need to take account of any repayments that have recently been made.
In upholding the complaint from the guarantor I directed that TFS should refund all the 
repayments that the guarantor has made on the loan. I think it is reasonable that TFS takes 
that refund into account when looking at what remains for Mr W to repay on this loan.
My starting principle is that Mr W shouldnt be expected to repay more than is outstanding at 
the point that TFS makes the refund to the guarantor. But I think it reasonable that TFS 
should only receive back the capital that it lent to Mr W. So, if the amount of capital originally 
borrowed (£6,500), less the repayments made by Mr W himself, is lower, TFS should amend 
the loan balance to that lower amount.
TFS should seek to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for any balance that 
remains on the loan in line with what I have set out above. I would remind TFS that it should 
treat Mr W positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
TFS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman