DRN-2811732
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, was not of 
satisfactory quality. He wants Santander Consumer Finance to reimburse him for the cost of 
repairing the car.
What happened
Mr M obtained a second hand car in September 2019, financed through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer Finance.
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and our investigator set out in 
some detail what happened, so I wont repeat it again here. In very brief summary, Mr M 
reported a problem with the car overheating and losing power. The problem was with the 
head gasket which wasnt covered under warranty, so Mr M arranged and paid for the 
required repairs. Santander Consumer Finance wouldnt reimburse the costs of repair 
because the independent report that it had arranged concluded that the fault was not present 
when the car was supplied. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt see that 
the independent inspector had been made aware of when Mr M first reported a fault with the 
car. And that, because this was so soon after the car had been supplied, it was likely that 
there was already a problem when the car was supplied. She thought Santander Consumer 
Finance should reimburse Mr M for the cost of repairs, plus interest, refund his monthly 
payments from May to November 2020 when the car wasnt driveable, and pay him £250 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Santander Consumer Finance responded to say, in summary, that:
It referred to an independent engineer who said their opinion on the fault wouldnt 
change.
The investigator said an MOT had been completed four days before the car was supplied 
to Mr M, but theres no evidence of this.
Our investigator clarified that Mr M said the supplying garage had told him an MOT had been 
carried out shortly before the car was supplied to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was supplied and how long 
after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around five years old when it was supplied in September 2019 and its mileage 
was around 70,000 miles.
Within a few days, Mr M reported a problem with the brakes. The car needed new brake 
discs and pads. The car was second-hand and its reasonable to expect it will have been 
subject to a fair amount of wear and tear and may require maintenance and repair more 
quickly than it the car had been supplied new. But I wouldnt expect a repair like this to be 
needed within a few days of the car being supplied. I find this means it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
The new brakes pads and discs were supplied under warranty  so at no cost to Mr M. This 
seems to be a fair and reasonable resolution. 
But this issue does suggest that the car wasnt properly checked before it was supplied to 
Mr M, and Ive taken this into account in arriving at my decision about the other fault that 
hes reported.
In December 2019, he told the supplying garage that the car was overheating, losing power 
and going into limp mode. Its not clear how long hed been experiencing this, but he first 
reported it around three months after hed obtained the car and when hed driven it around 
4,000 miles. He took the car to an independent garage and it diagnosed a coolant leak. It 
replaced the thermostat housing, but this didnt fix the fault. So in February 2020 he 
complained to Santander Consumer Finance. It arranged for an independent inspection 
which took place on 5 May  around five months after Mr M had first reported the problem. 
The inspector found that:
In our opinion the coolant expansion had evidence of oil deposits in the coolant expansion 
tank indicative of a head gasket issue, this resulting in a road test being declined,
In our opinion whilst we did not road test the vehicle the suggested overheating and oil in the 
expansion bottle may be the reason for the reported lack of power.
And the report concluded that:
In our opinion in view of the time in ownership we do not consider this was developing at 
purchase.
The report was completed by an independent expert, so Ive considered its findings very 
carefully. But the report says the inspector wasnt advised of the failure date and failure 
mileage. His conclusion seems to be weighted by the time in ownership  which at the time 
of the inspection was eight months. But the fault had occurred by at least early to 
mid-December 2019  after three months of ownership.I wouldnt have expected the car to fail the way it did, so soon after it had been supplied, 
even taking into account that it was second hand and would likely require some wear and 
tear repairs. Taking this into account, and the fact that the problem with the brakes indicates 
its more likely than not that full checks werent carried out on the car before it was supplied, 
I find that, on balance, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
It follows that Santander Consumer Finance is responsible for putting this right. 
Mr M has had the car repaired, so I find Santander Consumer Finance should reimburse him 
for the cost of putting this right, plus interest. This includes the initial repair on 8 January 
2020, costing £175.85, and the repairs carried out in November 2020, costing £2,609.15. 
Mr M was unable to use the car from 5 May 2020 to 18 November 2020. Santander 
Consumer Finance should refund the payments he made under the terms of the conditional 
sale agreement during this period.
Ive found Mr M was supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality. This has 
naturally been upsetting for him and has caused him inconvenience for which he should be 
compensated. I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as 
Santander Consumer Finance, should:
1. Reimburse Mr M £175.85 and £2,609.15 for the cost of repair. 
2. Pay interest on these amounts at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Mr M paid 
the invoices to the date Santander Consumer Finance reimburses him. *
3. Refund the payments Mr M made under the conditional sale agreement from 5 May 2020 
to 18 November 2020.
4. Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman