DRN-3015372
The complaint
Miss H complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to turn down 
her income protection claim.
  
What happened
Miss H was a member of her formers employers group income protection scheme. The 
aim of the scheme was to pay benefit, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, if she couldnt 
carry out her occupation because of injury or illness.
On 8 May 2019, Miss H stopped work because she was experiencing problems in the 
workplace. She was later diagnosed with anxiety and a depressive disorder and 
submitted a claim to Aviva.
Aviva turned down the claim as it thought Miss Hs absence was due to non-medical 
causes. Unhappy with this, Miss H brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 August 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy defines incapacity as:
the members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury.
Duties is defined as:
The material and substantial duties that:
are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder
Job role is defined as:
A members job role with the policyholder at the time incapacity starts.
Therefore, for Aviva to pay the claim, Miss H must show that she was prevented 
from carrying out her role at her previous employer, due to illness or injury, 
throughout the deferred period.
Ive looked at Miss Hs GP records. I see that when she stopped work in May 2019 her GP 
noted shed had some counselling which had been helpful, but work had become worse 
and she was doing the work of two people, and had also been bullied. The GP also 
recorded that she was struggling to interact with people, and had been doing exercise and 
mindfulness.
However, before Miss H stopped work, I see that shed reported experiencing stress at 
work to her GP for some months. In November 2018, her GP said that she wanted 
therapy and that people could see that she was stressed and reacted differently to her.
Miss Hs GP explained to Aviva that she had been diagnosed with adjustment disorder 
with anxiety. They said Miss H had experienced increasing stress at work, and had 
anxiety with palpitations, and was feeling exhausted with stress.
In July 2019, Miss H met with Dr S (consultant psychiatrist). He said she had an 
adjustment disorder with anxiety, and theyd discussed how she was working for an 
organisation which was inconsistent with her own values. He said Miss H was worried 
she may have autistic spectrum disorder, but he didnt think that was the case.
In October 2019, Dr S met with Miss H again. He said that Miss H had a diagnosis of 
mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. He explained that her predominant symptom was 
anxiety, but mood symptoms were also present. Dr S noted that Miss H had very high 
demands on herself and was a significant driver of the pressure to return to work when 
she didnt feel able to do so. Dr S started her on antidepressant medication at this time.
On 20 February 2020, Ms C (chartered psychologist) said that Miss H had been referred 
to her in October 2018 for psychological therapy relating to work stress, and they had 
met regularly until February 2020. This was so that Miss H could have support through a 
period of psychological ill health, during which she experienced debilitating anxiety with 
cognitive defects, and overwhelming negative ruminations and worry.
Ms C further explained that Miss H had initially been referred to therapy during a 
particularly difficult period at work in which she was feeling negatively targeted, and this 
gave rise to considerable anxiety. Ms C listed the symptoms that Miss H was 
experiencing, and said that she was eventually signed off work by her GP, and had been 
battling to cope with compromised functioning ever since. Miss C thought that Miss H was 
suffering from generalised anxiety disorder.
On 10 March 2020, Dr S (consultant psychiatrist) confirmed that he saw Miss H on 18 
July 2019 with a diagnosis of mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. He said that this 
was triggered by pressure at work and, since then, she had suffered from crippling 
anxiety and had been unable to work. Dr S explained that Miss H had tried in good faith 
to resolve the work issues, but an agreed resolution didnt occur, and that because of 
her condition not improving, despite taking antidepressants, she was not able to return 
to work. He also said he didnt agree that her absence from work was due to non-
medical causes, as she had a clear psychiatric diagnosis which is a medical condition.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I disagree with Avivas view that Miss Hs absence 
was due to a non-medical cause. Whilst I accept the trigger for her anxiety was a non-
medical cause (the problems she was experiencing at work), its also the case that 
anxiety can be triggered by many situations.
Miss H was already experiencing workplace stress for some months before she stopped 
work, and due to the impact that was having on her, she was referred for counselling. And 
so Miss Hs decision to stop working in May 2019 wasnt the result of a one-off workplace 
issue, instead it seems that her anxiety developed from her workplace stress. Its also 
interesting to note that Miss Hs symptoms didnt get better after she stopped work, as you 
might expect if someone had only stopped work because of a problem with their employer.
Miss C had been treating Miss H both before and after she stopped work, and shes 
provided a useful explanation of how Miss Hs symptoms of anxiety affected her. It 
was Miss Cs view that Miss H couldnt work.
Dr S saw Miss H on two occasions throughout the deferred period, and diagnosed her 
with mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. He confirmed that he didnt agree with 
Aviva that Miss Hs absence from work was due to non-medical causes. Dr S also explained that he didnt think Miss H could work.
I accept that problems at work would be an employer/employee issue rather than a 
medical issue, but I think its apparent from the evidence that Miss H was experiencing 
anxiety which prevented her from doing her occupation for her former employer. Im 
therefore satisfied that Miss H has shown that she meets the policy definition of 
incapacity.
Miss H has raised concerns about discussing her health with a staff member at Aviva, 
as she says she was reassured that the conversations were confidential. Despite this, 
Aviva told her that it had taken into account comments made during one phone call with 
that staff member, though it also said that she had asked it to keep the conversation 
confidential so details from that call hadnt ever been recounted.
Its not clear what information Aviva was referring to. The information Ive seen from the 
staff member following the phone calls with Miss H provides very little information, as the 
staff member says she didnt have consent from Miss H to share details of their 
conversations.
Based on what Ive seen, Avivas claims decision didnt take into account any 
information that Miss H gave to that staff member in confidence.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Miss H responded with the following additional points:
She remains concerned about the supposedly confidential discussions she had with 
Avivas staff member, and that there was a breach of trust and confidence. She 
thinks the staff member mustve discussed the conversations with a colleague 
because it added weight to Avivas argument that her absence was work-related.
She had previously asked that a payment of £5,000 be paid to her for injury to 
feelings, and would like a response from me on this. Miss H has explained her 
reasons for this.
Aviva responded to say that because this is a group income protection policy, the benefit 
must be paid to Miss Hs employer. It says its willing to pay the benefit (plus interest) from 
the end of the deferred period to the date Miss H left her employment to the policyholder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H remains concerned that the conversations she had with Avivas staff member werent 
confidential, even though she was reassured by Aviva that they were. I appreciate that Aviva 
made reference to one of those phone calls in its communications with Miss H, but it didnt 
say what had been said, and it hasnt given this service any information about those 
conversations. Therefore, as far as I can see, Avivas claims decision didnt take into 
account those conversations.   
Miss H says she would like a payment of £5,000 for injury to feelings. This service doesnt 
make awards for injury to feelings, though we can make awards for pain and suffering, as 
well as distress and inconvenience. Miss H says she had the stress of having to handle the appeal, as well as the complaints 
process when she was mentally and emotionally fragile. She also says she was patronised 
by Aviva through the use of wild subjective assumptions about the triggers for her condition. 
I do appreciate that appealing against Avivas claims decision wouldve been stressful (as 
well as the later complaint), though its also the case that Miss H couldve arranged for a 
representative to act on her behalf. 
I also understand that it wouldve been difficult for Miss H to read about Avivas opinion 
concerning her condition and the cause of this. However, Aviva was entitled to make a 
claims decision, and I dont think any of the language it used was inappropriate. I therefore 
dont think Miss H was caused particular distress and inconvenience, over and above what 
would normally be experienced by someone who has had an income protection claim turned 
down.
Aviva says that because its a group policy, the benefit must be paid to Miss Hs former 
employer as they are the policyholder. Im afraid I dont agree. The usual approach of this 
service, where someone has since left their employment, is for benefit under a group income 
protection scheme to be paid directly to the individual. Also, I note the policy terms allow for 
benefit to be paid directly to a former employee, at Avivas discretion. I think it should 
exercise that discretion here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to accept the claim and pay any backdated benefit due to Miss H in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement*.
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
As Miss H no longer works for her former employer, the benefit should be paid directly 
to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman