DRN-3949833
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr R complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) unfairly 
declined their claim for rent protection. 
For ease, as Mr R is leading this complaint, Ill refer to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr R, a landlord, has a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy  underwritten by DAS 
 which provides rent protection (subject to terms and conditions) in the event a 
tenant defaults on their rent. 
In 2022, Mr R sought to make a claim under his policy when his tenants failed to pay 
their rent. 
DAS considered his claim but declined it, stating a satisfactory reference for each 
tenant hadnt been obtained before the tenancy started  which was a condition of 
the policy.
It said the tenancy application had been approved on a conditional basis  the 
condition being that proof of the tenants residency was provided and kept on file. 
Mr R was only able to provide proof of residency for one of the tenants. And so, DAS 
maintained its position that it had declined his claim fairly.  
DAS however, acknowledged that it could have given Mr R clearer information when 
dealing with his claim and offered £150 compensation for this. 
In the interim, Mr Rs letting agent accepted itd made an error by not acquiring proof 
of residency for one of the tenants. 
Unhappy with DAS decision, Mr R brought a complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator considered it and was satisfied DAS had acted fairly, so she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Because Mr R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document, which under the Tenant Default section says 
DAS will cover rent arrears provided you have:
i)Obtained a satisfactory reference for each tenant and each guarantor from a licensed 
referencing service before the tenancy started; and,
ii) A detailed inventory of the contents and condition of your property []; and
iii) Kept clear and up to date rental records.
The policy specifies the reference must include: written references from a previous 
managing agent or landlord, an employer (or any other financial source); and a credit history 
check. 
Based on this, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear whats required for a reference. And, as 
a landlord, Mr R should be aware of his legal obligations which require him to check that his 
tenants have a right to legally reside in his property. 
So, the issue here is whether Mr R has met this condition of the policy. Having looked at the 
tenancy application for both tenants, its clear the acceptance of it was on the condition of 
proof of residency being provided and kept on file. Its not in dispute this hasnt happened 
here as the letting agent has acknowledged it didnt have proof of residency for one of the 
tenants, and that it hadnt been able to supply written references from the tenants previous 
landlord. 
Without this information, Im not persuaded the policy condition has been met, and Im 
satisfied DAS has declined Mr Rs complaint fairly. I appreciate Mr R may argue it wasnt him 
who was at fault for not being able to provide the necessary information to support his claim, 
but thats not relevant to the outcome Im making. Ultimately, the policy requires a 
satisfactory reference to be obtained and thats not happened here. So, Im satisfied DAS 
decision to decline the claim is fair.
DAS incorrectly informed Mr R hed provided sufficient information for it to take forward a 
claim under the tenant default section of his policy. Understandably, when it corrected itself, 
Mr R was frustrated and disappointed. But I must keep in mind that DAS did so within a few 
weeks, and so the impact of its mistake was limited. With that in mind, Im satisfied £150 
fairly reflects the difficulties Mr R incurred because of this and I wont be asking DAS to pay 
more compensation.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman