DRN-1245210
 
The complaint
Mr O complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs H, that a car she got through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) wasn't fit for purpose. She would like to reject 
the car.
What happened
Mr O says Mrs H took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with GCC for an approximately eight 
year old car with just over 70,000 miles on the clock on 4 June 2019.
He says the day after she got the car she asked to reject it as there were major problems 
with the clutch. And issues with the paintwork. Mr O said the car had been resprayed, 
repaired and the panels didn't line up.
He says a local garage said there was a problem with the master cylinder and a fault with 
the dual mass flywheel. Unfortunately that garage wasn't willing to give a formal report to 
confirm this.
Mr O says a friend then looked at the car and said there was a judder, the clutch pedal was 
high and slipping. And advised  the clutch and flywheel needed replacing.
Mr O says he doesn't know why GCC didn't accept this report. Instead, it got the dealership 
to look at the car. And then commissioned an independent report.
Mr O says Mrs H doesn't feel safe driving the car and would like to reject it.
GCC said it couldn't accept the findings Mr O gave as the inspection wasn't independent - it 
was carried out by a friend and not paid for. It said the dealership found no fault with the 
clutch neither did the independent inspector. It added Mrs H hadn't given any evidence to 
support issues with the paintwork but did point out that a used car with significant mileage 
could not be expected to be 'as new'. It concluded there were no grounds to allow rejection 
of the car.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He found as Mrs H raised issues within the first 
30 days of having the car she did have the right to reject it if it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
He found the independent inspection found no faults with the car. On that basis felt there 
were no grounds to allow the car to be rejected.
GCC accepted this view but Mrs H didn't.  Mr O provide some more information from the 
friend who inspected the car. This confirmed that a visual health check was carried out on 
the car which found the clutch pedal was high, the centre exhaust clamp was corroded and 
the NSF CV boot was leaking and the rear 'blade' needed replacing as it was juddering. Mr 
O felt this confirmed there were serious issues with the car.
Mr O added that Mrs H now didn't have use of a car as she didn't feel safe driving it. And 
said this had impacted on the family. And on Mrs H and his health.Our investigator considered these points but didn't change his view. He accepted the 
information showed some issues had been identified but didn't feel they showed the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality. He said he would expect some pre existing wear and tear of 
serviceable parts in an eight year old car with significant mileage as was the case here. And 
the independent inspection found the car to be fault free.
Mrs H didn't accept this further view and asked for an Ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H feels strongly about this and I do appreciate that. Also, that it must be very stressful 
not having use of a car since  she believes the car isn't safe to drive.So I do understand that 
must cause her some anxiety.
But I have to consider if GCC has done anything wrong. And unfortunately, whilst I 
appreciate this isn't the outcome Mrs H would like , I agree with our investigator's view.
Mrs H raised issues with the car as soon as she got it. So, as our investigator has explained, 
as that was  within the first 30 days of having the car Mrs H   could reject the car  it if it 
wasn't of satisfactory quality.
I am conscious Mrs H's agreement was for an eight-year-old car with over 70,000 miles on 
the clock when she got it. With a used car with significant mileage it might be reasonable to 
expect some wear , tear and repair issues more so than, for example, with a new car. 
Having said that we still expect a car to be fit for purpose at the point of sale.
If problems arise within the first six months of having a car we broadly say it's up to the 
business to show if a fault was present or developing at the point of sale for which it is 
responsible.
There have been three inspections of Mrs H's car. These were by the supplying dealership, 
a report Mr O arranged and an independent report. I have seen all of these. 
The supplying dealership inspected the car and found no fault or slippage with the clutch. Mr 
O provided an invoice confirming an 'inv judder found clutch pedal high and slipping. 
Advised replacement clutch and flywheel'
I appreciate Mrs H doesn't feel its fair that the inspection Mr O arranged wasn't taken into 
account. And she  didn't understand why GCC then wanted an independent report.
I can understand why GCC had an independent report commissioned. It is usual practice to 
do so. And I think in this situation it was a very reasonable approach to take. 
The supplying dealership didn't provide a full report just a short email detailing its findings.  
And as it supplied the car it could be seen as biased.
The initial 'report' Mr O gave was an invoice based on a free visual health check. It didn't 
provide the detail an independent report would give. Neither did the technical report Mr O 
later provided.  The latter did confirm some issues but made no comment as to whether 
these issues would have been present at the point of sale or not. And the only item noted as 
needing immediate attention  was the rear blade needed replacing at a cost of £12.23.There was no charge for the information given to Mr O. And there was some suggestion a 
friend of Mr O's did the inspection.  So although GCC has confirmed  that it did take note of 
this information , it had said it had some concerns over the independence of the information 
which I don't think was an unreasonable response.
So I think it was entirely reasonable of GCC to get an independent report. I have read the 
report and I usually put a lot of weight on such reports. They are independent of the finance 
provider, the supplying dealership and the consumer and  are usually very detailed.
I've read this report and its clear that the inspector found no fault with the clutch 
performance, no sign of deterioration with the clutch  and no characteristics relating to clutch 
slippage or reduced clutch performance. He concluded that the car was fault free.
I think the report is conclusive.And as it found  o faults with the car I can't reasonably expect 
GCC to allow Mrs H to now reject the car.
I appreciate Mrs H told us she also had some issues with the paintwork on the car. But I 
haven't seen any evidence of this. And from the final response letter GCC sent to Mrs H it 
seems it hadn't seen any evidence either. I would agree with GCC's conclusion that a used 
car cant be expected to look 'as new'. 
Without any evidence I can't reasonably conclude that there is an issue with the paintwork. 
But even if there were it is unlikely that that in itself wouldn't be grounds to allow Mrs H to 
reject the car. We would consider paintwork issues to be wear and tear and not something 
we would normally expect a business to be responsible for. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman