DRN-4340550
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given by Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as 
Wren Sterling (Wren) to transfer two personal pension plans into a new arrangement with 
the same provider.
What happened
Mr B and his wife met with an adviser from Wren in September 2021 primarily for advice 
about investing cash held on deposit. Mr B also had two personal pensions with Royal 
London, both invested in with-profits with a selected retirement age of 65. Mr B was making 
monthly gross contributions of £78.32 to one of the plans, valued at £34,883.31 with a 
transfer value of £72,171.19. The other plan was paid up, valued at £4,209.74 with a transfer 
value of £14,253.94. 
At the time of the advice Mr B was 56, married and self employed. His wife was 57 and 
employed. Their income comfortably covered their expenditure. In addition to their home 
they had two rental properties, with a combined value of £520,000 and no debts plus around 
£178,000 in cash deposits. Mr and Mrs B had no specific retirement date but said it would 
likely be around age 65 and theyd look at it annually from age 60. Mr Bs attitude to risk 
(ATR) had been assessed as Risk Group 4 which indicated a preference for investments 
which include an equal balanced mix of lower and medium risk investments such as cash 
and fixed interest and higher risk investments such as shares. 
Wren produced a suitability report on 30 September 2021. It included investment and 
pension recommendations. Wren recommended that Mr B transfer his two existing pensions 
to a new pension arrangement with Royal London and invest 70% in the Royal London 
Sustainable Diversified Trust and 30% in the Royal London Sustainable Managed Growth 
Trust. Mr Bs main objectives were recorded as to have a clear picture of his retirement 
provisions; have all his funds invested in line with his current risk profile and in a socially 
responsible manner; and to benefit from ongoing advice.
The transfer was completed on 22 November 2021. 
After an annual review meeting Mr B complained to Wren that hed never seen the suitability 
report, didnt know how much hed been charged and had only been told his pension was 
being moved to a more modern product with the same provider. Mr B also said he had no 
wish to be invested in a socially responsible manner and wasnt told this meant extra costs 
with less chance for growth. He said that idea was pushed by the adviser from the start.  
Wren responded on 31 March 2023. Wren didnt uphold the complaint. Wren said the 
evidence showed Mr B wanted to review his pensions in line with his ethical approach and 
all the charges were made clear. 
The complaint was referred to this service. One of our investigators considered the advice 
about Mr Bs pensions and if the advice to switch had been suitable. 
The investigator referred to the then regulators 2009 report about pension switching (which 
remained applicable today) and which identified four main areas where consumers could 
lose out, including where theyd been switched to a more expensive pension without good 
reason. 
The cost of the new plan was difficult to compare as both with-profits funds had implicit 
charges and one plan had a £2 pm charge as well. But the investigator concluded that, when 
the initial advice fee was included, the recommended plan was more expensive than Mr Bs 
existing plans and so would need to achieve higher growth just to match his previous 
pensions. 
The main driver seemed to be investing the funds in a socially responsible way. Mr B 
wouldve known hed be investing in that way  emails sent by the adviser specifically 
mention that. But it seemed the suggestion had come from the adviser. An email sent after 
the first meeting didnt read as if ethical investing was a concern before the meeting, nor did 
the fact find suggest that was Mr Bs aim before he took advice. His existing ISA (Individual 
Savings Account) wasnt invested in that way. And Mr B had no need to access any benefits 
in the short/medium term. Although flexible access was a nice to have, it wasnt a priority. 
Mr B accepted the investigators findings. Wren didnt. Wren pointed to the documentation as 
consistently confirming the clients objectives  reviewing their existing pensions, receiving 
ongoing advice as they approached retirement and investing ethically  and which set out 
Wrens charges. 
Wren also said the recommended pensions were lower cost. Mr Bs new pension cost 0.45% 
pa compared to around 1% pa for the original pensions. Wren used the industry standard 
O&M tool which allowed like-for-like comparison of projections for investments with opaque 
charges. 
Mr B and his wife wanted to review their pensions for which thered have been an initial 
advice charge, regardless of the final recommendation. They also wanted ongoing advice 
which Wren wouldve provided and which was optional and had since been cancelled. The 
new pensions facilitated adviser charging, which is more tax-efficient than paying from 
savings/income.
Wren said the performance data for the recommended funds and the bonus information for 
the existing with-profits investments suggested that, even if the new pensions were more 
expensive (which they werent), the new funds had the potential to generate sufficient 
outperformance compared to the original funds to make up a reasonable critical yield before 
retirement.  
The investigator considered Wrens comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He maintained that Mr B would likely be worse off in retirement. An advice charge  a 
minimum of £1,000  wouldve been made if the advice was to leave the pensions where 
they were. It wouldve been paid from existing deposits and wouldnt have had an impact on 
the pension and future tax efficient growth. The investigator maintained that the evidence 
showed that ethical investing had been adviser led. The investigator pointed to an email from 
Mr Bs wife sent on 10 October 2021. Although shed asked a lot of questions, ethical 
investing isnt mentioned. The investigator also referred to the advisers comment about not 
having really pushed ethical investments too much. 
In response Wren said, while there was a minimum fee of £1,000, the fee for the services 
requested was confirmed as 3%. If, after completing a review, Wren had advised Mr B to 
retain his existing pension plans, the fee wouldve been the same. Wren also reiterated 
previous comments. Mr Bs wife has also complained. Her complaint has been dealt with under separate 
reference. But, as advice was given to Mr and Mrs B together and their complaints and 
Wrens responses are similar, the decisions are much the same in many respects. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
Im not persuaded that the advice to switch was suitable for Mr B. I dont think the reasons 
put forward by Wren  ethical investing, flexible access and lower charges  justified the 
recommendation to transfer. The likely outcome of the recommendation was a reduction in 
yield which meant Mr Bs fund at retirement  and the benefits it would provide  would be 
lower. 
Ive considered first whats been said about ethical investing. Wren has said, if Mr B hadnt 
wished to invest ethically, its highly likely Wren wouldve still recommended a transfer as the 
new pensions were lower cost than the existing plans. Ive considered the charges below. 
But its clear, as things happened, that ethical investing played a large part in the 
recommendation. 
Wrens position is that Mr B wanted to invest ethically and couldnt have done so via his 
existing pension plans. Whereas Mr B says that ethical investing was suggested by the 
adviser and wasnt a priority for Mr B. The suitability report mentions socially responsible or 
ethical investing several times but Mr B says he didnt see the report. 
Where, as here, theres a dispute I decide whats likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities, taking into account all the available evidence and information and the wider 
circumstances. 
As to whether Mr B saw the suitability report, I agree with the investigator its unlikely Mr B 
wouldve agreed to make changes to his pension arrangements without having something in 
writing. So Ive proceeded on the basis that Mr B did see the report even if he doesnt now 
recall it. 
Mr B also suggests the suitability report doesnt properly reflect the discussions with the 
adviser. I havent really gone into that as I think, based on what the suitability report did say, 
the advice to switch was flawed anyway. 
The suitability report said Mr B wanted all of his funds to be invested in line with his current 
ATR and in a socially responsible manner. It seems that type of investing had been brought 
to Mr Bs attention by reading a brochure supplied by Wren. I dont think Mr B had decided, 
before he was advised by Wren, that he wanted to invest ethically and, as those type of 
funds werent offered in connection with his existing plans, that he wanted to change his 
pension arrangements to accommodate socially responsible investing. 
I further note it was Wren whod suggested a review of Mr Bs pension, Mr B having initially 
sought advice about investing a cash sum. So Mr B wasnt actively seeking advice about his 
pension. He may have been happy, all things being equal, with the idea of investing 
ethically, but I dont see that was a key interest for Mr B or a genuine driver for the switch. I dont agree with what Wren says about Mr B not choosing to review his ISA  in my view, if 
Mr Bs priority was ethical investing, hed have wanted to take that approach with his ISA as 
well and even if the fund was relatively small. 
Wren has also pointed to the flexibility offered by the new pension arrangements. But Mr B 
was only 56 at the time of the advice. He had no immediate plans to retire and he thought, 
although hed review it along the way, that might not be until he reached age 65. So, as 
things stood, he wouldnt be accessing his pension for some time. How he wanted to do that 
and if he needed to switch to a product that permitted flexible access couldve been 
considered nearer the time and when Mr Bs exact requirements were known.  
As to the costs of the new arrangement, I note that Mr B wouldve had to pay Wrens advice 
fee in any event and even if Wren had advised Mr B to retain his existing plans. And Wren 
says the new plan was cheaper than Mr Bs existing pensions  Wren says the charges on 
those with-profits plans wouldve been in the region of 1% pa, compared with 0.45% pa for 
the new plan. Thats the providers platform fee with no further fund charges. But Wrens 
ongoing adviser fee was 1% pa which made the overall total ongoing charges 1.45% pa and 
so the new plan would be more expensive. 
Wren says Mr B wanted ongoing advice. Mr B has since cancelled that facility which might 
suggest that he didnt fully understand how much it would cost him. But Ive said that I think 
hed have got the suitability letter which did set out the annual ongoing charges  the 
platform charge and the ongoing adviser fee, both in percentage and money terms. The 
section headed Reduction in Yield also said that the additional 1% ongoing service charge 
meant the total cost of the new plan would be more expensive than the existing plans. But 
that Mr B was more than happy to accept that in return for the service that would be 
provided. On the basis that Mr B did get the suitability report, hed have known hed be 
paying more because of the ongoing advice facility. 
But the fact that Mr B had said he wanted ongoing advice didnt mean he needed it or that 
Wren shouldve recommended a switch to facilitate ongoing advice being provided. 
Especially if the other reasons for switching  ethical investing and flexible access  werent 
made out. The concept of ongoing advice will be attractive to most investors. But the cost 
will obviously increase the charges and reduce the yield and wont be justified in all cases.  
The reduction in yield on Mr Bs pension under the proposed new plan was 1.8% pa, after 
inflation. Ultimately the overall aim in switching was to increase the level of Mr Bs retirement 
benefits. I think the reduction in yield was significant. The new funds would have to do well if 
Mr Bs pension fund wasnt going to be less when he reached retirement than if hed have 
remained in his existing plans. I dont think it was safe to rely on past performance data as to 
how well or otherwise the recommended funds might do. 
Wren seems to have started from the position that Mr Bs existing with-profits arrangements 
were no longer suitable for him  I note Wrens comments about the need to move Mr Bs 
pension funds to a modern, lower cost arrangement with transparent charging. Wren also 
refers to Mr Bs existing with-profits plans as opaque and anachronistic and says that 
declared bonuses for with-profits funds had been deflated for a prolonged period. 
It is the case that with-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of transparency, 
particularly as to charges. And in recent years annual bonuses, if paid at all, may have been 
reduced. But terminal bonuses can be added at maturity to reflect the policyholders fair 
share of the profits made by the fund over the entire period of investment. I dont think the 
switch was justified on the basis that Mr Bs existing arrangements had become inherently 
unsuitable for him due to the nature of the with-profits funds. All in all, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that the advice to switch was 
suitable. I dont think the chances of Mr B increasing his pension at retirement were 
improved by the switch. 
Ive set out below what Wren needs to do to compensate Mr B for any loss hes incurred as 
a result of switching. It follows what the investigator suggested. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr B as far as possible back in the position 
hed likely be in if Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling hadnt 
given unsuitable advice. I think Mr B wouldve retained his existing pension arrangements. 
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling should determine if Mr B 
has suffered a loss by obtaining the notional transfer value of his previous pensions from 
Royal London and assuming Mr B had remained in the same funds. That notional value 
should be compared with the actual value of his Royal London Pension Portfolio at the same 
date. If the total notional value is higher than the actual value, Mr B has suffered a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is higher than the total notional value Mr B 
hasnt suffered a financial loss and compensation isnt payable. 
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it cant be paid into Mr B s pension plan, it should be paid direct to him. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise
have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr B is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if 
he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling should pay Mr B £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience of transferring his pension and the impact this has had on 
the value. This sum is payable regardless of whether theres any financial loss. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Any additional sum paid into the new plan (Royal London Pension Portfolio) should be 
added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those 
payments are totalled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If Royal London is unable to calculate a notional value, Wren Sterling Financial Planning 
Limited trading as Wren Sterling will need to determine a fair value for Mr Bs pensions instead using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The 
adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is 
then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling 
must redress Mr B as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman