DRN-1959589
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen 
Financial Services (VWFS), added 58 days interest to a settlement figure on a credit 
agreement. He says the credit agreement didnt make this charge clear and he was told 
there would be no early repayment charges.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive no reason to think that the settlement calculation carried out by VWFS is incorrect and 
its my understanding that Mr H isnt challenging the calculation itself but rather the fact that 
hes been charged 58 days interest.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58 day charges Mr H is 
complaining about. 
These terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I understand Mr Hs 
concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining each and every 
term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. The credit agreement says, 
in clause 7.2, that in the case of early repayment:
"Any such repayment will be applied first to discharge the sums which have already
fallen due under this agreement. The balance will then be applied to discharge your
indebtedness under this agreement by the amount paid and any applicable statutory
rebate". 
In cases of early settlement, the word rebate is used because if you decide to pay off all or 
part of a credit agreement before the end of the term, you do not have to pay the full amount 
of interest stipulated in the agreement. Instead the total amount of interest which would have 
been payable over the term is reduced by a statutory rebate. I can see that this is a little 
confusing but VWFS are using the language provided in the relevant act when they refer to 
rebate. So, I cant say theyre wrong to do so.
Mr H says he was told there would be no early repayment charges but thats disputed by 
VWFS and in the absence of further evidence that was the case Im not persuaded they 
need to take any further action on that point or the complaint as a whole.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman