DRN-3446141
The complaint
Mr M complains about Creation Consumer Finance Limiteds response to his complaint 
about the issues that he had with e-signing a credit agreement.
What happened
Mr M wanted to use a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance to pay for a 
television that he was buying in October 2021. There was an issue which meant that he 
couldnt sign the agreement using its e-sign facility so he asked for the agreement to be e-
mailed to him but that didnt happen. He complained to Creation Consumer Finance, 
cancelled his order and bought a television from another retailer.
Creation Consumer Finance upheld his complaint about the issues with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It apologised and agreed to remove 
the search that it had made from Mr Ms credit file. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. Although she hadnt 
received any information from Creation Consumer Finance, it had apologised to Mr M for its 
service and she thought that that was sufficient and she didnt think that it needed to pay any 
financial redress.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that theres 
no logic in his complaint being resolved in Creation Consumer Finances favour if it hasnt 
co-operated with the investigation and that the wrong information it gave him, its bad service 
and having to go through another credit application with another retailer justifies 
compensation. He also says that the investigator hasnt seen proof to confirm that the search 
has been removed from his credit file so she cant guarantee that the search has been 
removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance hasnt provided any information to this service but I have seen a 
copy of the final response letter that it sent to Mr M. This service expects financial 
businesses to respond to requests for information and I dont consider it to be acceptable 
that Creation Consumer Finance hasnt responded to our investigators requests for 
information about Mr Ms complaint. But its failure to respond to those requests doesnt 
mean that his complaint should be upheld.
Mr M had applied to Creation Consumer Finance for credit to pay for a television. It says that 
his application was accepted but he experienced issues using e-sign and that, if a customer 
cant e-sign the agreement, its its process for a paper copy of the agreement to be sent for 
signing. I can understand Mr Ms frustration about his dealings with Creation Consumer 
Finance and hes described the inconvenience that he was caused.
Creation Consumer Finance apologised to Mr M for the issues that he had with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It also agreed to remove the search 
that it had made from his credit file. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response to Mr Ms complaint. I consider that the customer service that Mr M has received 
wasnt of the standard that he was reasonably entitled to expect but, other than that, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance has acted 
incorrectly. Mr M clearly feels that he should receive compensation from Creation Consumer 
Finance for the inconvenience that he was caused but Im not persuaded that any 
compensation is justified in these circumstances. 
Creation Consumer Finance said that it would ensure that the hard search was removed 
from Mr Ms credit file. Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to show that the search hasnt 
been removed from his credit file and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to take any action about that search.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman