DRN-1049500
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Gold account.
Mr C paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return. He 
thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think 
that Lloyds had mis-sold the Gold account to Mr C and didnt recommend that it should give 
him any money back.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr C and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr C banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has looked at its records for him. It has 
told us that they show that: 
prior to September 2001, Mr C had a fee-free Classic account 
it sold Mr C the Gold account in July 2002 
Mr C closed the account in October 2007.
There has been some dispute about the early part of this account history. Mr C has told us 
that before the Gold account, he only had a basic account which provided only limited 
banking services, whereas (as above) Lloyds has said that since at least September 2001 
he had a fee-free account called a Classic account, which provided a wider range of banking 
services.
Lloyds has sent us copies of some of the records and these seem to support its position 
about the Classic account. I accept that at an earlier time Mr C may well have only held a 
basic account, but Im satisfied that by September 2001, he had switched to a Classic 
account. And although I cant tell for certain what happened in the following years, I think 
Lloyds records for the rest of the time are probably reliable and I have taken them to be 
accurate.
 
Both Lloyds and Mr C have told us that it advised him to buy the Gold account during a 
meeting at one if its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected Lloyds to 
check that the account was a reasonable match for Mr Cs needs and financial situation, tell 
him clearly about its benefits and costs, and give him a fair choice about buying it. 
Mr C has stated that Lloyds failed to give him a choice. Hes told us that he went into Lloyds 
to ask for a current account and the manager said we have this and proceeded to sell him 
what he now knows is a packaged account, without offering any alternative. Hes said that at 
that time he thought all non-basic bank accounts had monthly fees. Hes explained that he 
wanted an overdraft and Lloyds led him to believe he could only have one if he bought the 
Gold account.
From Mr Cs account history, it seems to me that by the time Lloyds sold him the Gold 
account, he had held one of its Classic fee-free account for around nine months (and 
possibly a fee-free basic account for some time before that). So, it follows that Lloyds must 
have told Mr C that such accounts were available. Indeed, at that time, fee-free accounts 
were widely available in the UK, both from Lloyds and from other banks, and this situation 
hasnt changed. I havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds told Mr C it was 
withdrawing his Classic account from him, and I doubt that it denied him a choice to keep it.
I accept that in 2002, Mr C may have wanted an overdraft. When Lloyds arranges overdrafts 
for customers, it doesnt normally consider the type of account they hold; its told us that this 
has no bearing on how it makes its decisions about lending money, and I accept this to be 
true. So, I think its unlikely that Lloyds told Mr C he couldnt have an overdraft with a fee-
free account. 
However, in July 2002, Lloyds usually charged customers with Gold accounts less interest 
for overdrafts than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. I think Lloyds may well 
have told Mr C about this during the meeting, which would have been a reasonable thing for 
it to say as it was correct. Its not the same as telling Mr C he had to buy the Gold account in 
order to have an overdraft. I dont think Lloyds mis-led Mr C about this. 
Mr C has also told us that he didnt need, or use, any of the other potential benefits that 
came with the Gold account. Some packaged bank accounts offer a car breakdown service 
and mobile phone insurance as potential benefits and Mr C has pointed that in July 2002 he 
didnt drive and didnt own a mobile phone, so he didnt need them. However, at that time, 
the Gold account didnt provide these benefits, so I dont think they are relevant to the way 
Lloyds sold it Mr C.
However, the Gold account did provide travel insurance. Mr C has told us that he travelled 
abroad from time-to-time (although he has explained that he only did so roughly every other 
year) so it seems he may have had a potential need for this benefit. I think its highly likely 
that Lloyds told Mr C about this during the meeting, after all it was one of the main benefits 
of the account it was trying to sell. And I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the 
account to Mr C for this benefit alongside the potentially lower interest on the overdraft he 
has said he wanted.
Mr C has also told us that when he went abroad, he bought travel insurance separately from 
a different business. I accept that he may well have done this, but as Im satisfied that Lloyds 
told him about the cover that came with the account, that he had a potential need for it, and 
that Lloyds gave him a choice, in this particular case I dont hold Lloyds responsible for any 
duplication.So, in summary, while I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right in the way it 
sold the Gold account to Mr C, Im satisfied that it gave him reasonable advice, told him 
about the benefits the account could provide and gave him a choice about buying it. There 
isnt any dispute that Lloyds told Mr C about the monthly fees and I dont think it misled him 
about overdrafts. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman