DRN-3482560
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to make a faster payment. He 
would like a late payment marker not to be applied to his account  and compensation.
..
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ps frustration that a faster payment  made through his bank to 
Barclays didnt arrive. I have seen no evidence to show that Barclays received this 
payment which I understand was subsequently returned to Mr P by his own bank. On 
that basis I cant reasonably say Barclays was at fault.
I dont think Barclays advice for Mr P to make a further payment was wrong as this 
would have avoided any late payment marker being registered. I understand no late 
payment marker was registered as Mr P moved his account to another provider . In 
doing so Mr P  has told us he incurred a 4% balance transfer fee. Thats unfortunate 
but it was Mr Ps choice to move his account so I dont think I can hold Barclays 
responsible for any costs involved.
Ive noted Mr Ps comments about the time taken to log a complaint with Barclays. 
Barclays has accepted its customer service fell short of what a customer should 
expect. It has offered £75 compensation. When issues arise, it can take some time 
for both sides to resolve things. In this case I feel Barclays has made a fair offer for 
the inconvenience caused .
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr P £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
