DRN-1913485
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to not reimburse her after 
she fell victim to a scam and lost £645.
What happened
Miss M came into contact with someone posing as an employee at a loan company. They 
told Miss M they could approve a loan of £1,000 but there would be a requirement to pay 
some refundable fees in order to release the funds to her.
Miss M was sent an email with the details of the loan and what the fees would be. They were 
variously described as value added tax, security deposit, loan set up fee and money 
laundering charges.
Unfortunately, Miss M hadnt been contacted by a genuine company. Instead shed been 
drawn into a scam. They proceeded to tell her that shed need to pay these fees using gift 
voucher codes. Miss M was instructed to buy the gift vouchers from high street retailers and 
disclose the codes over the phone.
Miss M did as instructed and bought five gift vouchers over the three days using her debit 
card. The value of the gift cards gradually increased starting at £25 and ending at £245. She 
spent £645 in total. After sending the final voucher code, and being asked to send a further 
£350, Miss M realised shed fallen victim to a scam.
She reported the incident to the bank but they werent able to help. They explained that as 
Miss M had authorised the transactions herself they wouldnt refund them. 
Miss M brought her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with the banks response. 
She felt the bank should refund and that the fraudsters should be tracked down.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that as 
Miss M had authorised the transactions the bank had acted fairly and reasonably in not 
refunding them. She didnt find there was any other reason to say the bank should otherwise 
be responsible for the spending. And she noted there was little the bank, or our service, 
could do to track down the fraudsters given the voucher codes had been exchanged on the 
phone.
Miss M asked an ombudsman to review the case as she didnt agree with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss M has been the victim of a scam and has lost this money. I know this 
cant have been easy for her, either financially or emotionally. But Im not upholding her 
complaint as I think NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably throughout. I dont believe 
theres anything more it could have done.
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account.
 
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise. Here, theres no 
dispute Miss M authorised the transactions herself. She bought the gift vouchers using her 
card and PIN and was aware of what she was doing.
I know Miss M was caught up in a scam at this time and so she was not acting as she might 
normally. But that doesnt change the position on her having authorised the transactions or 
her liability for doing so. 
There are some situations where we might expect a bank to question transactions if they are 
particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt ask Miss M about the spending whilst it 
was taking place and I dont think it ought to have done. I dont find there was such unusual 
activity  in terms of the amount or frequency of payments  that meant NatWest ought to 
have been on notice something wasnt right.
Our investigator was right in what she said about the limited assistance NatWest or our 
service can offer in tracking down the fraudsters. Unfortunately theres not really any way for 
us or the bank to assist. It seems this would have to be a matter dealt with by the police. 
Its for these reasons Im unable to uphold Miss Ms complaint and I conclude that NatWest 
has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman