DRN-1594656
 
The complaint
After initially refusing to reimburse Mr A for one of two payments he made as a result of a 
fraud, Barclays Bank UK Plc subsequently refunded the other payment. Mr A has 
complained that it wont reimburse him for the forensic report he says he needed to prepare 
to support his claim that the second payment should have been refunded by it.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr A made 2 payments into an investment. He had subsequent 
concerns that he may have been the victim of a fraud and told Barclays about his concerns.
On 20 September 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr A. It said it had completed its initial 
investigation and was prepared to refund him one of the payments. It said it wasnt able to 
reimburse all of the payments as it didnt think he had taken sufficient steps to ensure the 
business he was making the payment to was legitimate. And it went on to explain that it was 
trying to recover the remaining funds from the bank the money had been sent to. It also said 
this could take up to 45 days from his first contact with Barclays, and it would let him know 
the outcome. 
Mr A wrote to Barclays on 7 October 2019. He explained in detail why he disagreed with its 
refusal to refund the second payment he had made. And he asked for his arguments to be 
considered and that he be reimbursed the other payment that hadnt been reimbursed.
Barclays wrote to Mr A on 23 October 2019 in response to his complaint. It explained that his 
claim had been referred to a panel of stakeholders and the decision was made to reimburse 
him the second payment as well. 
Mr A wrote to Barclays in response on 31 October 2019. He explained that he had to instruct 
a forensic investigation firm to carry out forensic investigations and other research upon 
which he based his case and complaint. He requested that the cost of the report be paid by 
Barclays, and he also asked that interest be applied to the monies reimbursed.
Barclays responded to his e-mail on 6 November 2019. It agreed to pay him interest less a 
deduction in respect of tax. It wouldnt agree to reimburse the costs of the forensic report.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service to look into. And he explained to our investigator 
that he was obliged to pay to produce the evidential material for his rebuttal statement, which 
he said eventually forced Barclays to reimburse the second payment. And he made a 
number of points in support of his complaint. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She upheld the complaint in part as she didnt 
think Barclays had considered all of the information when reviewing the initial claim for the 
refund. And she said that Barclays should pay Mr A £150 for the inconvenience he had been 
caused. But she didnt think Barclays needed to reimburse him the cost of the forensic 
report.Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had made substantial payments to a third party and I do understand that it must have 
been a very stressful time for him when he realised that he had been the victim of a fraud. 
Approximately two weeks after his first contact with Barclays, it wrote to him. It explained 
that it had carried out its initial investigation into the fraud and was making a repayment to 
him of one of the payments he had made. It also said it was trying to recover the remaining 
funds from the bank where the money had been sent to. So, although it had only agreed at 
that point to reimburse one payment, it does appear that its investigations were ongoing.
I can understand that Mr A wasnt happy with Barclays not agreeing to reimburse both 
payments and felt the need to respond to its letter with his rebuttal statement. But as Ive set 
out above, it does appear further investigations were ongoing to try and retrieve the balance 
of Mr As money. So, although Mr A had complained about Barclays decision not to 
reimburse both payments, it hadnt given him its final answer in respect of its investigations. 
In line with the complaint handling rules that Barclays had to comply with, it seems 
appropriate to me that it should have had the opportunity to respond to Mr As concerns, 
which it did on 23 October 2019. 
Mr A says that he needed to commission the forensic report as a result of Barclays not 
agreeing to reimburse both payments. But although he chose to commission the report, I 
dont agree that he necessarily needed to. 
If Barclays had maintained its position and refused to reimburse Mr A for the other payment 
he made, he would have been aware from its final response that he could have brought his 
complaint to our service for free. And that is what he ultimately did when Barclays didnt 
agree to pay the costs of his forensic report. 
It seems to me that Mr A communicated quite clearly and articulately in his rebuttal 
statement and covering letter, the reasons why he didnt accept the accusation that he 
hadnt carried out due diligence before making the payments. This was based on the facts 
he set out about the enquiries he had made prior to making the investments. And although 
his rebuttal statement contained information from his forensic report, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, Im not persuaded that this was needed for his complaint about the rejection of 
his claim to be investigated by Barclays. 
It does appear from what Barclays has told us that its investigation into Mr As claim wasnt 
as thorough as it should have been. Barclays told Mr A that the feedback he had provided 
was extremely valuable. But it appears from what it told our investigator, its decision to 
reimburse the second payment was influenced by what was said in the call made in respect 
of the first payment. So, it does appear that this issue could have been resolved sooner for 
Mr A if that call had been listened to in its initial investigation. And taking into account the 
impact on Mr A and that this matter was resolved in a matter of weeks, I agree with the 
investigator that £150 is appropriate to compensate Mr A for the inconvenience in his claim 
not being resolved sooner.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part. If Mr A 
accepts my decision, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc, to pay Mr A £150 for the inconvenience 
hes been caused, only if it hasn't already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman