DRN-4455728
The complaint
Mr L and Miss P complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) unfairly turned down their 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to 
a loan they provided to them to purchase a timeshare product.
What happened
In or around June 2018, while overseas on holiday, Mr L and Miss P accepted an invitation 
to visit and view a holiday resort. As part of that visit, they attended a sales presentation 
from a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as A. During the course of the presentation, Mr L 
and Miss P agreed to purchase a timeshare product from A. The purchase price agreed was 
£18,600 of which £15,810 was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement with VFL.
In or around December 2020, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr L and 
Miss P submitted claims to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. In particular, the 
CMC alleged that A had misrepresented the product purchased by Mr L and Miss P by 
advising:
the product was of some substance, but it is now clear it is worthless; and
the purchase would be an investment that would increase in value and could be sold 
later at a considerable profit.
The CMC said that as A have now ceased to trade, they have committed a repudiatory 
breach of contract. They believe that both the misrepresentations and the breach satisfy the 
criteria for a claim under section 75 of the CCA (S75).
They also said that the relationship between VFL, Mr L and Miss P arising out of the loan 
agreement, taken with the related purchase agreement with A, is unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said:
Mr L and Miss P were subjected to a high-pressure sales presentation;
theres been a breach of fiduciary duty
VFL deliberately chose not to disclose the fact that commission was paid to A, or the 
amount paid;
Mr L and Miss P werent presented with a choice of finance options; and
VFL failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
Shortly after submitting the claim and in the absence of a substantive response from VFL, 
the CMC referred Mr L and Miss Ps claims to this service as a complaint. 
During the course of this services investigations, VFL provided their response to the claims. 
They didnt think there was any evidence the product had been misrepresented to Mr L and 
Miss P. Or that there was any evidence thered been a breach of contract. VFL didnt find 
anything else that would lead them to uphold any other part of Mr L and Miss Ps claim.
One of this services investigators considered all the evidence and information provided. 
Having done so, they didnt think there was any evidence to support the allegation that the 
product had been represented to Mr L and Miss P as an investment. There were also unable 
to find any evidence to suggest thered been a breach of contract.
Our investigators considered the various allegations of unfairness. But again, they werent 
persuaded the evidence available was likely to lead to a court finding that the relationship 
was unfair under S140A. Or that there was anything persuasive to suggest the loan was 
unaffordable to Mr L and Miss P. 
The CMC didnt accept our investigators findings and various exchanges followed in which 
they:
insisted all products sold by A were represented as an investment;
suggested all points-based timeshare products sold by A were presented with the 
ability to rent out and receive an income regularly highlighted as part of the sales 
process;
referenced previous complaint outcomes relating to the financing of sales by A;
raised questions about the fairness of the contract terms where annual maintenance 
fees hadnt been paid;
provided a 36 page document containing Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants specific to the points-based timeshare products sold by A; and
asked this service to obtain information and provide responses to questions about 
the procedures and policies that applied to the sale of loans with VFL for the 
purchase of timeshare products.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr L and Miss Ps complaint was passed to 
me to consider and reach a final decision. In doing so, while I reached a similar outcome to 
that of our investigator, Id considered various aspects that I feel werent fully addressed 
previously. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 17 October 2023, giving all 
parties to this complaint the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reach a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where Mr L and Miss P paid for their timeshare product having financed it with a 
restricted use regulated loan from VFL, its accepted S75 applies.  Because of that, 
Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of 
this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr L, Miss P and VFL arising 
out of any credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And where 
the product purchased was funded under a credit agreement, its deemed to be a 
related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs treatment of Mr L and Miss Ps claim was fair and reasonable given all 
the evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityIt isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. 
Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the FCA. But it is our role to 
examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the manner 
in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Mr L and Miss Ps experience with them. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding - if accepted by the consumer - we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr L and Miss P something that wasnt true in relation to 
one or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr L and Miss P to enter the contract. 
This means I would need to be persuaded that they reasonably relied on those false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what they were specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product they purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr L and Miss P claim, such as 
marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what they 
say they were told. In particular that the product purchased was represented as a 
financial investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to their 
membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a way that used 
its investment element to persuade Mr L and Miss P to contract. Only then would it 
have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as 
an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr L and 
Miss P) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). 
The pressured sale and process
The claim makes an allegation that Mr L and Miss P were subjected to a high-
pressure sales presentation. As part of his own testimony, Mr L says they were put 
through a very stressful period of hard selling. In describing what happened as the 
presentation continued he says, we were now tired and rather nervously signed the 
papers and documents agreeing to the loan and completing the timeshare 
application.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr L and Miss P agreed to the purchase in 2018 when they 
simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on 
to say something to A, after the purchase, to suggest theyd agreed to it when they 
didnt want to. And they havent provided a credible explanation for why they didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted here. 
If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt they were pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest they were obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
they made the decision to proceed because their ability to exercise choice was  or 
was likely to have been  significantly impaired. 
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr L and Miss Ps S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the 
introducer of the loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards them. In particular, 
its argued that the payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from them. VFL 
have confirmed that no commission was paid here. But, even if it had been, I dont 
think this was incompatible with As role in the transaction. 
A werent acting as an agent of Mr L and Miss P, but as the supplier of contractual 
rights they obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the 
loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr L and Miss P advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, they were always at liberty to choose 
how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr L and Miss P requested those details from 
VFL at any point. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would 
find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission wouldve created an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the purchase agreementIn subsequent submissions to this service, the CMC have suggested that some of the 
terms of the purchase agreement are unfair. In particular where Mr L and Miss P 
have stopped paying annual maintenance fees under their contract. The presence of 
an unfair, or potentially unfair term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would 
automatically deem the relationship unfair. Any finding on that is more about whether 
such terms have been applied in such a way as to create unfairness. In any event, I 
cant see that this aspect formed part of the claim that was made. And because of 
that, I dont think this is something I can fairly consider here, as I can only look at 
whether VFLs response to the claim(s) made was fair and reasonable. 
In any event, I think its relevant to acknowledge the circumstances that appear to 
have led to any non-payment. Ive seen evidence that Mr L wrote to A in April 2019 
asking that they consider a request to cancel their membership. The reasons given 
specifically related to a change in his and Miss Ps personal circumstances together 
with a new medical problem that meant Mr L was no longer able to fly. As a 
consequence, it appears it was Mr Ls request to cancel the agreement that 
ultimately led to any non-payment of maintenance fees rather than anything 
instigated by A. 
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr L and Miss Ps claim that could be considered 
outside of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a 
proper credit assessment. The CMC allege a sound and proper affordability check 
wasnt completed.
Its relevant that the CMC havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr L and Miss P. And Ive not seen anything that 
supports any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
In their response to the claim, VFL explained the affordability assessment theyd 
completed which they believe satisfies their regulatory obligations and showed the 
loan was sustainably affordable. If I were to find that the checks and tests completed 
by VFL didnt comply with the regulatory guidelines and requirements that applied  
and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr L and Miss P in order to uphold their complaint here. 
Ive seen no specific information about their actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments. VFL have confirmed 
that Mr L and Miss P maintained all repayments as they fell due without any 
suggestion of financial difficulty. While I acknowledge the suggestion that their 
personal and financial circumstances have now changed, I dont think those changes 
were reasonably foreseeable as part of any assessment undertaken by VFL. And in 
any event, I dont believe any compliance failure would automatically mean that their 
loan agreement was null and void. It would need to be shown that any such failure 
resulted in a loss to Mr L and Miss P as a consequence. 
Based upon these findings, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for 
them or that theyve suffered any loss as a consequence.
Other considerations
Following our investigators view, the CMC asked that this service consider the 
contents of a document headed Generic submissions on behalf of complainants. 
However, given the generic nature of its contents, I dont think its helpful in 
establishing the facts of what actually happened in Mr L and Miss Ps specific case.
The CMC have also referenced other complaint decisions issued by this service in 
relation to timeshare products funded under regulated agreements. However, my role is to consider Mr L and Miss Ps complaint on its own merits given its own particular 
set of circumstances.
Furthermore, the CMC also requested that this service obtain extensive details of 
VFLs processes and procedures together with evidence that A (and in turn VFL) 
complied with the relevant rules, regulations and codes of practice that applied in the 
circumstances of the loan that was provided to Mrs M. 
As Ive already explained, this services role as an ADR does not extend to regulating 
financial businesses or their policies and procedures  thats the role of the FCA. Our 
powers are confined to deciding whether, on balance, their processes and 
procedures were applied in a fair and reasonable way in Mr L and Miss Ps individual 
circumstances. And thats what Ive done here
Summary
Having carefully considered everything thats been said and provided, I havent found 
anything that persuades me that A did misrepresent the timeshare product to Mr L 
and Miss P in the ways alleged. Or that a court is likely to find any of the specific 
allegations within their claim resulted in an unfair relationship under S140A. And 
because of that, I cant reasonably conclude that VFLs treatment of their claim was 
unfair or unreasonable. Given my findings, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr L and 
Miss Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither VFL nor the CMC have responded to my provisional findings, despite follow up from 
this service. In these circumstances and having seen nothing new which persuades me to 
vary from my provisional findings, Ive no reason to change the proposed outcome here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr L and Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman