DRN-4406830
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about a claim he made on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr F says Aviva treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr F made a claim on his Aviva legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim 
against the developer and seller of his home. The dispute was in respect of a right of way 
over a private shared driveway Mr F says he was entitled to and the developers failure to 
transfer ownership of the driveway to Mr F and some other houses.
Aviva passed the claim to their panel firm to consider. They determined that Mr Fs claim had 
reasonable prospects of success but wasnt proportionate to pursue because the loss he 
was claiming for wasnt quantifiable. They also said there werent prospects of recovery 
against the developer, and as such the claim wasnt one the policy was capable of covering.
Mr F didnt agree. He supplied information to show the developer had substantial assets that 
any award he might obtain could be enforced against. The panel firm accepted this but 
maintained the claim still wasnt covered because they couldnt determine whether it wasnt 
proportionate to pursue. They said that if Mr F supplied valuation evidence to quantify his 
loss, they would be prepared to review matters. As things stood, Aviva said the claim wasnt 
one they would cover. 
Overall, Mr F is unhappy with the position Aviva have taken. Hes made several submissions 
about this, including that his loss was measurable, that the person advising at the panel firm 
wasnt qualified or experienced and that hes now litigating the matter himself at 
considerable cost. Mr F wants Aviva to fund his costs incurred in pursuing the claim as well 
as compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been put to in gathering 
information each time it was suggested that he wasnt covered by the policy. 
Our investigator considered Mr Fs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that Aviva were entitled to rely on the opinion of their panel firm. Mr F doesnt agree so 
the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding and is
proportionate to pursue. Mr F policy is no exception. That means his claim needed to have
over 51% prospects of succeeding and the sum likely to be recovered needed to be more
than the costs likely to be incurred for Aviva to cover them.
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed of if the amount they will
recover is less than they would spend on costs. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer
to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as
they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.
Im satisfied that the advice received from the panel firm was supervised by someone 
suitably qualified and experienced in the area of law that Mr F was seeking advice on. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to have relied on this. I cant consider the quality of the 
legal advice itself as thats not something thats within my remit. Firms of Solicitors are 
independent professionals with separate codes of conduct and a separate regulator. If Mr F 
remains unhappy with their advice, then he can raise this with the panel firm or complain to 
the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr F has said that he did quantify his loss and that this should have been enough for Aviva 
to determine that his claim was covered. In particular, hes referred to sums he said the 
developer benefitted from by selling access over the disputed land to another, which he 
could have done himself if the land was transferred to him when it should have been. Mr F 
has also talked about the diminution in value of his property if he sought to sell it with an 
unresolved dispute in progress. But from what Ive seen he didnt provide any evidence at 
the time to quantify how much those claims were worth. And after Aviva declined to cover 
the claim, Mr F took matters forward himself by instructing his own Solicitors to litigate the 
matter as he was concerned it would become time barred if he didnt do so. 
I asked Mr F to provide me with a copy of his Claim Form and Particulars of Claim so that I 
could consider these to see whether hed quantified his claims at all. Mr F didnt supply his 
Claim Form, but he did provide his Particulars of Claim. Having considered the remedies he 
is seeking within that, I can see that the value of his claim has still not been quantified. And 
Ive not seen any legal advice that sets out an estimation of what Mr F is expected to recover 
at trial. Without anything to support what Mr F says his claim is worth, I dont think Aviva 
were obliged to fund his claim. The absence of that information meant there was nothing to 
support whether it was proportionate to pursue- and as Ive set out above, we wouldnt 
require an insurer to fund a claim in those circumstances. The fact that Mr F has chosen to 
pursue the claim without it being quantified is a matter for him, but its not a risk I would 
expect an insurer to take.
From what Ive seen, the panel firm said theyd review any evidence Mr F was prepared to 
supply to evidence diminution in value, but he didnt supply this or anything else that 
supported the quantification of his claim. And as matters stand, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest this is currently available. The Particulars of Claim supplied by Mr F dont support 
this. That said the Claim Form might have given some indication of what he thought the 
claim was worth but Mr F hasnt provided me with this, and even if he had, I dont think it 
would have been persuasive evidence of the value of his claim in any event. If Mr F can 
supply Aviva with any further evidence to support the value of his claim, like his Solicitors 
opinion on the likely amount hes expected to recover and what evidence thats based on, Id 
expect Aviva to consider funding the claim in accordance with their policy terms going 
forward. But I dont think this should apply to Mr Fs costs incurred after Aviva said they were 
no longer prepared to fund his claim.  Mr F has said its unfair that Aviva arent offering cover for a point of contract law where they 
may be no or little quantifiable loss but where a point of contract needs to be enforced. He 
says that if thats the case, this is inconsistent with the examples given in the policy which 
extends to recovering damages or obtaining any other legal remedy. He references 
scenarios like stopping a neighbour from making noise. I appreciate the point hes making 
but the policy requirement is for any claim to be proportionate to pursue, which accords the 
Courts own rules in advancing claims like the specific claim Mr F is making. And in this case 
the claim Mr F is making ought to have been quantifiable in some shape or form to allow the 
panel firm to assess whether it was proportionate to pursue, given the nature of the various 
matters he was claiming for (as noted within the Particulars of Claim hes supplied). In the 
absence of any evidence to support what those claims are worth, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to turn down cover.
I know Mr F is unhappy about the information hes had to gather each time Aviva explained 
the parameters of cover. Whilst I appreciate this wouldve put him to some effort, its a 
reasonable expectation that policyholders supply evidence to support their claims in order to 
allow insurers or their panel firms to determine whether cover is available. Indeed, the policy 
says:
You will be asked to provide evidence. Should you wish to pursue a claim the lawyer will 
need you to provide as much information as possible to support your case. This could 
include: copy of contracts witness details, correspondence with anyone regarding your claim 
etc. You are responsible for providing evidence to support your case at your own cost.
I know this was inconvenient for Mr F at times, but I cant say that Aviva did something 
wrong. Without enough evidence to satisfy themselves of the panel firm of the legal position 
and therefore whether cover was available, I cant say Aviva were wrong to take the position 
they did.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman