DRN-3006733
The complaint
Ms D complains, via her relative, about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline part of 
her subsidence claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
I set out the background to Ms Ds complaint in my Provisional Decision and here.
Ms Ds home developed cracks and her relative claimed to AXA on her behalf. The claim 
was accepted, and AXA carried out investigations on the foundations and determined the 
cause as close proximity of vegetation on the boundary, which is alongside a public road. 
Ms Ds relative said an arborist inspection determined that all the vegetation on the boundary 
had to be removed. He said the vegetation provided the property with security and screening 
from road users. He wanted AXA to provide a new privacy fence or screening as he said the 
whole length of the boundary would be left exposed and unprotected.
AXA said Ms Ds policy provides cover for subsidence but not a new fence. It said removal of 
the cause of damage isnt covered by the policy, but it would do so to ensure theres no 
more movement. AXA said replacement of the screening isnt covered by the policy. AXA 
apologised for small delays with the claim and paid Ms D £150 compensation.
Ms D remained dissatisfied with AXAs response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part and said AXA should pay half 
the cost of a new fence. She said the vegetation provided Ms D with privacy, if not security. 
She said the policy doesnt cover a new fence, but insurers should carry out 
uninsured/additional work if thats absolutely necessary to the insured work. She couldnt say 
the fence was absolutely necessary but thought that Ms D hadnt been indemnified by AXA. 
Ms Ds representative said they still thought AXA should pay the whole cost of the fence. He 
said there is nothing in the policy to say that AXA didnt have to replace the boundary 
screening that it had removed.
AXA also disagreed and said the intention of the vegetation to ensure privacy and security is 
academic as theres no policy provision for replacement. AXA said the removal of vegetation 
is mitigation work which most insurers do as a goodwill gesture to ensure subsidence is 
abated and prevent further damage. It said this means policyholders avoid a cost they are 
responsible for and it would be disingenuous to expect it to pay to replace vegetation to 
provide the same benefits simply by virtue of acting in goodwill for the benefit of consumers. 
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I have set out my provisional findings again below.
Ms Ds relative said the removal of the vegetation necessary to prevent further movement of 
Ms Ds home left the property extremely vulnerable and open. He said a new fence has been 
installed which cost about £2,000 and theres no exclusion within the policy to prevent AXA 
from paying for this. 
AXA said the policy covers the subsidence damage but not the cause of the damage. AXA 
said it wasnt required to remove the vegetation but did so as a gesture of goodwill, but it 
wouldnt pay for a new fence. 
Property insurance policies dont cover every risk or loss, they cover and indemnify 
policyholders for the losses and damage set out within the policy, under specific perils. For 
this reason property insurance policies dont carry exclusion clauses for everything that isnt 
covered by the policy  this just isnt practical. 
AXA makes a distinction between insured losses and what it describes as mitigation work. 
This can include removal of the cause of damage and other uninsured work desired by a 
consumer. AXA states that no mitigation work is covered by the policy, but it will carry out 
and pay for the former.
Ms Ds policy states that she is covered for the damage incurred as a consequence of 
subsidence at her home. So, the insured work here is to identify the cause of the movement 
and carry out repairs to the property. AXA says its gone beyond this in removing the cause 
of the movement to ensure the property stabilises quickly and repairs can be carried out. 
Our service expects insurers to carry out lasting and effective repairs and generally this is 
only possible when the cause of the problem has been removed. AXA states that this is the 
limit of its goodwill towards mitigation work and so it wont pay towards Ms Ds new fence. 
Ive had a look at the photos provided by Ms Ds relative and its clear the vegetation was 
taking on the role of a boundary and without it the property is exposed to the road. Its also 
clear to me that replacing the screening Ms D has lost is not part of the actions required of 
AXA under the policy. I think it was right that AXA paid for the removal of the vegetation to 
enable the harm to stop and repairs to be carried out quickly. But I don't think that the 
erection of a new fence is essential to the indemnification of the insured peril and the works 
required to address this. 
Ive thought about what our investigator has said about the complaint. She tried to extend 
AXAs goodwill in terms of a contribution to Ms Ds new fence. We do expect insurers to 
indemnify policyholders for their losses, but as I have said, I dont consider that Ms Ds new 
fence was essential to the insured repairs. Ms D didnt have a fence before her claim and by 
requiring AXA to pay for a replacement, AXA would arguably be putting her in a better 
position in comparison to her pre-loss situation. This would challenge the indemnity point 
made by our investigator. For the reasons I have given here Im not minded to require AXA 
to pay for Ms Ds new fence.
AXA apologised to Ms D about small delays with the claim and paid her £150 compensation. 
I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Following receipt of my provisional decision, AXA had no further comment to make and 
neither Ms D or her representative responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that no further representations have been made I see no reason to change the 
findings I reached in my Provisional Decision.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman