DRN-3475440
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Retail Merchant Services Limited didnt arrange for 
services on the terms agreed.
What happened
P met with representatives of RMS in November 2019. It applied for a merchant services 
contract and signed an agreement setting out the terms. P is unhappy that there was a 
further agreement in January 2020 which had different charges. And that it didnt receive 
incentives promised. It wanted charges to be stopped during the pandemic and wasnt happy 
to be told that there would be cancellation fees if the contract was cancelled.
RMS said that it had adjusted the processing fees from 1 May 2020. It had sent a referral 
voucher for £200 to the party that introduced P. There was no evidence to support a credit to 
the account of £20,000 that P said had been agreed. And RMS had made an offer regarding 
the cancellation of the contract provided P returned the equipment. It expected P to pay 
charges during the term of the contract but could have offered a payment deferral during the 
pandemic.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and P be refunded for 
the increase in fees charged between the date the agreement went live in January 2020 and 
1 May 2020 with simple interest at eight per cent per annum. This would apply to all 
Merchant IDs for P and all the fees in the original contract.
She said that RMS hadnt been able to explain why there were two agreements. The second 
had a higher authorisation fee of £0.045 compared to the original of £0.03 and a processing 
fee of 0.299 per cent on secure debit card transactions compared to the original of 0.288 per 
cent. So, the lower fees should be applied for all payments. There was no evidence to 
support a credit of £20,000 to the account having been agreed which would be greater than 
the contract value. RMS said it had sent any incentive voucher as it had agreed to and it 
couldnt provide serial numbers. She agreed that P was fairly liable for the costs of the 
agreement even during the pandemic. RMS had made an offer to end the contract which 
was fair given that there were cancellation costs in the agreement.
RMS said it agreed with the resolution. P didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be 
reviewed. It said that it hadnt received proof of what happened and satisfactory answers to 
its complaint. RMS had misled it over the commission and had no records about the 
vouchers. It wanted to be compensated for the loss of profit due to the higher commission 
percentages which it said had been taken unlawfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, there is incomplete evidence in this case. And as our investigator has said 
RMS hasnt been able to explain why there were two agreements  with the latter showing 
higher processing rates. P maintains that it only agreed to the lower rates and not to any 
increases. 
RMS agreed in a first final response to P on 15 September 2020 to reduce the processing 
fees to the lower rates from 1 May 2020. It has now agreed to apply this from the date that 
the agreement was operative.
RMS says that it sent out any vouchers that had been agreed. And I dont think it can fairly 
be held responsible for any issues with the postal service. It doesnt have any voucher serial 
number involved. I have seen an email it sent to P about this dated 25 March 2020 which 
confirmed dispatch that day following contact from P. I find on balance its most likely this 
were sent. 
I dont know if the reference by P to an expected credit to the account of £20,000 was a 
typographical error. But that amount cant have been right or reasonable given the value of 
the contract to RMS. I dont have anything to support any such credit being due.
P had written to RMS in August 2020 to say that it had got the impression that it was in 
agreement with waiving charges from 23 March 2020 to 4 July 2020 when it couldnt trade 
due to the pandemic. RMS didnt agree with that and said that it would have deferred 
payment of charges on request for a period but that these were still payable. I think that this 
was reasonable.
On 15 September 2020 RMS agreed to offer P a reduction in cancellation fees on the 
account less liquidated damages. And it said that this was on the basis that the terminals 
were collected. On 11 February 2021 it issued a further final response in which it said that 
we will authorise a free of charge closure across all of the Merchant IDs in query, however 
RMS would not be liable to return any refunds for the charges to date based on the signed 
agreement forms. It said that P would need to confirm this with it. I understand that the 
terminals had been sent back in January 2021.
P was liable for the costs of cancellation set out in the agreement. And so, I dont have a 
basis to say that the reduction in these costs agreed by RMS was not reasonable. Given this 
offer I wont be making an award of compensation for inconvenience. 
I think that the recommendation of our investigator about how to resolve the complaint is fair 
and the simple interest reflects any loss of opportunity for P on those fees involved.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Retail Management Services 
Limited to:
1) Recalculate all charges until 1 May 2020 at the lower rates shown in the application 
form dated 14 November 2019.
2) Refund the difference between (1) above and the actual charges applied to P.3) Pay P eight per cent simple interest per annum on the refund in (2) from the date the 
charges were applied to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman