DRN-3379528
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited handling of a claim under her 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has mobile phone insurance with Assurant. She made a claim on 25 June 2020 after 
the screen was damaged on one of the phones covered by the policy.
Mrs M says that when shes made previous claims, Assurant had paid for repairs which she 
got completed at an Apple store, using their walk-in repair service. But on this occasion they 
said that option was no longer offered.
When Mrs M complained about this, she was told the option has been discontinued because 
Apple stores had closed due the national COVID lockdown.
Mrs M had her phone repaired at an Apple store on 12 July 2020  two and half weeks after 
she rang Assurant to make the claim  at a cost of £275. Apple stores  or some of them at 
least  were clearly open again by that time.
Mrs M asked Assurant to pay for the repairs (less the £100 excess), but they declined, 
saying she wasnt entitled to use the Apple walk-in repair service.
When Mrs M brought her complaint to us, our investigator looked into it and thought 
Assurant had acted unfairly in refusing to pay any of the claim. 
She thought they should pay Mrs M what it would have cost them to repair the phone (less 
the excess). Assurant told us the repairs would have cost them £244.
Assurant didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
Mrs M also didnt agree with our investigators view. She thought that Assurant had clearly 
declined a valid claim, that they should pay her the full cost of the repairs (less the excess) 
and that she should be compensated because Assurant had dragged out the process 
unnecessarily.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy say. They say 
Assurant will either repair a damaged phone or replace it  possibly with a refurbished one - 
if it cant be repaired. Theres no mention of Apples walk-in repair service.
The policy also says that if a customer gets repairs carried out without first giving Assurant 
the opportunity to repair their phone, Assurant may decline the claim.
Assurant told us theyd put in place the option of the Apple walk-in repair to make for a better 
customer experience. It was only offered for certain repairs  and it was offered when a 
claim was made, rather than being notified to all customers at any point.
They say they stopped offering this option when Apple stores closed during lockdown. It 
seems to me they couldnt have done otherwise. And they say they then later made 
business decisions to put the option back in place and/or remove it depending on the 
situation at the time. 
This explains why Mrs M was told in October 2020, when she called Assurant to add a 
phone to her policy, that the walk-in repair option was available for certain kinds of repair.
Assurant pointed out to us that they didnt immediately put the option back in play as and 
when Apple stores re-opened. It took them some time to roll out the process for their claim-
handling staff. 
I dont think thats unreasonable. And. more broadly, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable 
for Assurant to decide  for their own business reasons  whether to continue to offer the 
walk-in repair option. Its not something that they offer in the policy terms  and its the terms 
customers accept when they buy the policy.
So, Im not going to ask Assurant to pay the full cost of the repairs Mrs M had completed in 
the Apple store. 
I might have taken a different view, if Mrs M assumed the service was available  as it had 
been previously  and had the repairs completed before speaking to Assurant. But Mrs M 
called Assurant to make the claim and was told  as she readily admits  that the Apple 
service wasnt an option. But went ahead with it anyway.
In that context, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Assurant to fall back on the policy 
terms and say that they wont pay in full for the Apple repair service.
However, as our investigator said, it would be unfair for Assurant to decline the claim 
altogether. They accepted the claim was valid when Mrs M rang them  and they havent 
disputed this since then.
And so, despite the term in the policy which says they may decline a claim if the customer 
gets repairs carried out without giving Assurant an opportunity to do so, I dont think 
Assurant could reasonably, in this case, refuse to pay anything at all to settle the claim. 
In short, Mrs M had a valid claim. It would have cost Assurant £244 to carry out the repairs. 
Im satisfied theyve checked that cost with their repairers. And it isnt far from the £275 it 
cost Mrs M to get a walk-in repair from Apple. So, thats what Assurant should pay to Mrs M 
(less the £100 excess).
Putting things right
Assurant should have settled the claim in July 2020  and paid Mrs M £144 to reflect the 
cost of the repairs to them (£244), less the £100 excess. 
Im going to require Assurant to pay that amount to Mrs M now. And because shes been 
deprived of that money, Im going to require them to pay 8% simple interest on that sum 
between the end of July 2020 (when the claim should have been settled) to the date they 
actually pay Mrs M the £144.Im not going to ask Assurant to add any compensation for Mrs Ms trouble and upset. When 
she first made her complaint to us, she said Assurant had handled things in a reasonable 
time frame  if not with the outcome she wanted  so she didnt want us to consider 
compensation. 
It appears she changed her mind on the basis that Assurant were unnecessarily prolonging 
the process by asking for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Assurant are entitled to ask for a final decision under the rules which govern our process, if 
they dont agree with the view offered by our investigator. It would be inappropriate, in that 
context, for me to say they had unnecessarily prolonged things by asking for a final deicsion, 
even if I am upholding the complaint.
I also bear in mind that the interest Ive awarded covers Mrs M for being deprived of the 
money for the full length of time it takes for Assurant to settle her claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay Mrs M £144 to settle her claim and add 
interest to that sum at 8% simple from 1 August 2020 to the date the payment is made.
If Assurant considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman