DRN-1562198
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that MBNA Limited allowed him to increase his credit limit and to make 
money transfers. He said the card was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P took out a credit card with MBNA. This had a 0% promotional rate on money transfers 
for the first 20 months. His credit limit was £4,200. About six months later, MBNA increased 
the credit limit to £5,500 at Mr Ps request. Over the following four months, Mr P made six 
requests to increase his credit limit, but MBNA declined these requests. During the time Mr P 
had the credit card, MBNA also approved several money transfer requests, totalling 
thousands of pounds.
Mr P complained to MBNA that it didnt carry out sufficient checks before accepting his 
application. He said that, had it done so, MBNA would have identified that the credit card 
was unaffordable due to his income and expenditure. As a result of the money transfers and 
the credit limit, his mental health had deteriorated, he had to borrow money from a range of 
people and his credit rating had been negatively affected. He wanted the interest refunded 
that he had been charged.
MBNA replied and said that Mr P was accepted for the credit card based on the information 
that he had provided and checks with external credit reference agencies. It said that if Mr P 
had wanted to reduce his credit limit, he could have asked MBNA to do this, but it had no 
record of him making contact.
Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
MBNA had carried out appropriate checks when it accepted his application and increased 
his credit limit and the money transfers were within his credit limit.
As Mr P did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, when someone thinks theyve been lent to irresponsibly, we look at the 
checks the business carried out when it made its decision to lend and also whether those 
checks were proportionate.
In Mr Ps case, MBNA said that it looked at his income and the level of debt, which was 
relatively low. There was also no adverse data on his credit file. MBNA said that based on 
this, it acted appropriately in approving the application and providing that credit limit.
I have looked at that information as well to see whether I think the checks were proportionate 
and if they showed cause for concern. Looking at Mr Ps credit file, this shows that the 
various financial products he had both at the time of applying for the MBNA credit card and 
when the credit limit was increased were in good order. Based on this and the other 
information MBNA considered, such as Mr Ps income, I think the level of checks MBNA 
carried out were proportionate to the level of credit offered and that they didnt indicate that 
there was a need to ask more questions before deciding to approve Mr Ps credit card 
application.
Ive also looked at the information available to MBNA when it approved Mr Ps request to 
increase his credit limit. This was about six months after he took out the card. Looking at Mr 
Ps credit file, again, I think this shows a positive picture of his finances and didnt highlight 
any areas of concern. By this point MBNA also had information on Mr Ps credit card use. 
Looking at this, it showed that Mr P had a number of money transfers very shortly after 
receiving the card, totalling several thousands of pounds, but paid these back promptly. He 
then either had a very low balance or a zero balance on his card for a few months. 
The month before Mr Ps credit limit increased, he again had some money transfers and 
there were a couple more in the same month that his credit limit increased. But given that he 
had money transfers previously, which he paid back promptly, and he remained within his 
credit limit with these new money transfers, I cant see that this would have been a particular 
cause for concern. So, I dont think Mr Ps credit card use since he took out the card would 
have suggested to MBNA that it should ask further questions or caused it to think Mr P 
would be likely to face problems if his credit limit was increased. 
Mr P is also unhappy that he was approved for money transfers. I asked MBNA how it made 
decisions on money transfers. It said that until February 2019 requests for a money transfer 
were not subject to any approval if the customer was within their credit limit. However, after 
February 2019, money transfer requests required further approval by MBNA. 
As Ive said above, Mr P requested several money transfers in the first few months of having 
the credit card. This was before MBNA introduced additional checks. The money transfers 
totalled several thousands of pounds. Mr P paid off the first money transfers very promptly 
but after that usually only made the minimum payment on the account towards any 
outstanding balance.
MBNA said that from February 2019, when money transfer requests needed additional 
approval, all of Mr Ps requests were approved, that his account was well managed and he 
met his monthly minimum payments, occasionally paying considerable sums. I have looked 
at Mr Ps credit card statements and agree that the account seems to have been well 
managed and that there were no obvious signs of problems or hardship. 
From March 2019 to August 2019, Mr P requested multiple money transfers - and 
sometimes several in the same month. During this period, he made two large payments to 
his credit card account that significantly reduced the amount he owed as a result of the 
money transfers. However, in September 2019, the month following the final money transfer, 
Mr P went over his credit limit and remained over the limit for a few months before making a 
large payment paying off the majority of the balance.
Mr P has said that if MBNA had carried out additional checks when he applied for these 
money transfers that it would have realised that it shouldnt have approved them. Looking at 
Mr Ps credit file, I can see that he took out a number of loans during this timeframe. 
However, MBNA didnt need to carry out credit checks as part of considering an application 
for a money transfer. This is because the money transfer was making use of the credit limit 
for which Mr P had already been approved, rather than offering him an additional level of 
credit.Mr P has also said that MBNA should have been aware that he was using the money 
transfers for gambling and provided his bank statements as evidence of this. But, MBNA 
wouldnt have had access to the details of Mr Ps spending on his bank account because it 
was with another bank. 
MBNA also provided phone calls from when Mr P requested some of the money transfers. 
Ive listened to the calls and the call handlers asked Mr P if he had any issues for which he 
required support and he said he didnt. The call handlers also specifically said that money 
transfers werent suitable to pay for gambling. Mr P didnt comment on this beyond saying 
that he wanted to proceed. 
As part of thinking about this, Im also mindful that finance providers dont need to ask what 
a money transfer is for and even if they did, they are not necessarily aware of what the 
money is then actually used for, which might turn out to be something else. In this case, my 
view is that MBNA provided appropriate information and advice about money transfers, 
including asking if he needed any support and saying that the transfers shouldnt be used for 
gambling. Having done so, Mr P didnt raise any concerns, including any financial difficulties, 
and said he wanted to go ahead with the money transfers.
So, having thought about all of the above, I think that MBNA carried out appropriate checks 
both when Mr P opened the account and when he asked to increase the credit limit. In 
addition, when Mr P requested the money transfers, I cant see that there was any indication 
that these shouldnt proceed and that, when MBNA introduced additional checks, Mr P was 
given appropriate information about their use, including that they shouldnt be used for 
gambling. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require MBNA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman