DRN-3764842
The complaint
Mr W is a sole trader, trading as C. He complains that I.M.S. (London) Limited trading as 
Instant Underwriting (IMS) unfairly declined a theft claim under Cs Retail insurance policy.
For ease of reading, Ill refer to all comments and actions of Mr W as being those of C. 
What happened
C held a Retail insurance policy with IMS. C claimed under the contents and stock section of 
its policy after a theft of a Vitesse statue. C was at a classic car and autojumble show selling 
items. C said that while packing items away into the boot of his car, the theft of the statue 
occurred.
IMS appointed a loss adjuster to investigate Cs claim. Following their investigation, IMS 
declined Cs claim. They said C had failed to meet an endorsement in the policy which is that 
IMS wouldnt be liable to cover any thefts where there had been no forcible or violent entry at 
an exhibition premises, unless those premises were protected by permanently sited security 
guards. 
C disagreed with the decision  it said that the event had volunteer marshals who acted as 
security and therefore felt the endorsement had been complied with. But IMS disagreed. 
They said that the volunteers did not meet the criteria of permanently sited security guards 
which was the requirement of the endorsement.
Unhappy with IMSs decision, C brought its complaint to our service. It said that there were
security measures in place at the event - club volunteers were acting as security marshals, 
and they were also issuing wristbands  paying visitor was issued with a coloured wristband 
to identify them as customers and dealers with different colours. C felt that these measures 
satisfied the endorsement on its policy to have permanently sited security guards. 
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it
was fair and reasonable for IMS to rely on a breach of the endorsement to decline the claim, 
and he didnt think IMS needed to do anything differently.
C maintained that it was unfair that IMS were using a "get out clause" for there being no 
security personal at the event when it felt there was security in place. C didnt agree with our 
investigators findings and so the complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IMS have a responsibility to handle the 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if 
I think IMS have applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner when 
declining Cs claim. Having reviewed everything available to me, I think they did, Ill explain 
why 
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for IMS to decline Cs claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions including the endorsement that 
IMS has relied on. 
C said the theft claim should be covered under the contents and stock section of its policy. 
The relevant section states: 
Section A  Automatic cover 
Additional cover  automatically included
5. Exhibitions and trade fairs
We will pay for damage to the property insured for a period not exceeding 15 
consecutive days whilst at any exhibition or trade fair premises and while in transit to 
and from them in the territorial limits. 
The maximum we will pay is £5,000 for any one loss. 
We will not cover theft or attempted theft from unattended vehicles.
Cs policy schedule also contained the following endorsement as an amendment to the 
policy wording above: 
ENDP4639900: Premises of exhibitions  Amendment
The insurance on general contents and stock applies also at any exhibition premises
up to a maximum of 15 consecutive days, including while in transit to and from, within
the territorial limits. The maximum we will pay is £30,000 in any one period of
insurance.
We will not cover 
I. Theft or attempted theft from unattended vehicles;
II. theft or attempted theft where there has been no forcible or violent entry unless the
exhibition premises are protected by permanently sited security guards;
III. personal belongings of your directors, employees or visitors.
We will not be liable for the first £250 of each loss.
IMS has relied on this endorsement to decline Cs claim. It concluded that the policy 
endorsement had not been complied with as there was no forcible or violent entry and no 
permanently sited security guards. 
Based on what C has told us, I am satisfied there was no forcible or violent entry used during 
the theft. I therefore have to consider whether the exhibition premises were protected by 
permanently sited security guards in order to satisfy the above policy endorsement. 
IMS said the event organiser told its loss adjuster that there were no security guards 
employed for this event. However, they did confirm that volunteers from the club were 
looking after the carparks as well as the public and trade entrances. All traders and helpers 
were identified with a wristband and the public attending were issued with a different colour. IMS said the event organiser confirmed that while the event is made as secure as possible 
no paid security guards were used at the event. 
Ive carefully considered what C has said about the security measures that were in place at 
the exhibition - C feels that the volunteers helping at the exhibition satisfy the criteria in the 
endorsement to have permanently sited security guards. While I understand what C is 
saying, I agree with the investigator that the volunteers at the event who had various 
responsibilities dont satisfy the endorsement to have permanently sited security guards. As 
the investigator has said, these exhibitions are high risk events and therefore its reasonable 
that IMS would seek to have safety measures in place. This is further supported by the fact 
IMS included this additional endorsement to Cs policy as a result of agreeing an increase in 
the level of cover. This suggests to me that the requirement of the endorsement was to have 
permanent professional security guards.  
Im satisfied that the policy didnt provide cover unless this endorsement could be met and 
for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that C complied with the endorsement to 
have permanently sited security guards. 
In summary, I dont consider that IMS treated C unfairly or unreasonably when relying on the 
policy endorsement to decline its theft claim. I therefore wont be requiring IMS to do 
anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman