DRN-2538197
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) concerns delays she 
experienced to her application for additional borrowing on her mortgage. She believes these 
led to her not obtaining the product she had initially applied for, and instead having to accept 
a second product with a higher interest rate. 
What happened
On 10 July 2020 Miss T applied on line for additional borrowing on her mortgage. She 
selected a product with a three-year fixed rate of 2.04% which was only available if the Loan 
to Value (LTV) ratio was 80% or less. Nationwide provided a Decision in Principle that day 
approving the application subject to valuation. Miss T then submitted her full mortgage 
application also on 10 July. 
The valuation took place on 17 July valuing Miss Ts property at £155,000 being some 
£2,000 lower than the amount she had estimated on her application. The valuation was 
received by Nationwide on 17 July but due to an error not reviewed until 25 July. In the 
interim period, Miss T contacted Nationwide a few times to enquire about the application. On 
23 July she was told it could take up to four working days from the date the valuation was 
received. 
Nationwide reviewed Miss Ts application on 25 July (Saturday) and notified her that she 
would need to either reduce the amount of borrowing sought or select a different product 
which catered for an LTV of up to 85%. This was because the valuation had come back 
lower than in Miss Ts application, increasing the LTV ratio from 79.5% to 80.54% meaning 
that Miss T was no longer eligible for any of Nationwides products with an LTV of up to 80%.
Miss T called on 27 July at a time when Nationwide had said they were open, but in fact 
were not. She was unhappy that she had been given this wrong information and also for 
being placed on hold for a long time before being cut off. Miss T changed her application for 
a product with the higher LTV ratio which had a fixed interest rate of 2.24% for two years. As 
a result of the change to the mortgage application Nationwide asked to see Miss Ts most 
recent payslip which Miss T provided on 4 August. A mortgage offer was then issued on 12 
August and funds released the following day.
Miss T feels that Nationwide has been negligent in its handling of her application and as a 
result she has had to take a higher rate mortgage which is costing her more.
Nationwide accepted there had been a number of service failings; that Miss T had been told 
that her valuation would be reviewed by 24 July but that it wasnt until the day after; that Miss 
T had been given incorrect opening times for her to call; that she hadnt been notified that 
her valuation had been received; that her call back request had not been actioned; that it 
ought to have been identified that the mortgage term needed to be amended on 25 July but 
it wasnt until 4 August, and that Nationwide had had all the relevant information it needed on 
4 August and a mortgage offer ought to have been issued that day but wasnt.
Nationwide didnt however accept that it had acted unfairly in asking for Miss Ts most recent 
payslip since her application had in fact changed. Nor did Nationwide accept that it had 
acted unfairly when offering Miss T the higher rate mortgage since she was no longer 
eligible for the initial product she had applied for. As a result of the service failings 
Nationwide offered Miss T £150 compensation which she did not accept.
Miss T was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had 
been poor service, the amount of compensation Nationwide offered was enough to put 
things right. Miss T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
In relation to the mortgage application itself, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly. I 
recognise that it will have been very disappointing for Miss T to learn that the lower rate 
mortgage was not available to her, but as the LTV had increased to over 80% that effectively 
made her ineligible for any product with an LTV up to the 80% mark. I also very much 
appreciate that the LTV was only just over the 80% mark, but as it was, I cant say 
Nationwide have acted unfairly.
Turning now to the delays in the application process - Nationwide have accepted there were 
delays. However, these did not cause Miss T to become ineligible for the initial product, 
rather it was the increased LTV which did so. 
In relation to Nationwides request for Miss Ts payslip, Nationwide have clarified that the 
reason this was requested was because the valuation was some £2,000 less than that which 
Miss T had estimated on her application. That had resulted in the increased LTV ratio which 
meant that in accordance with their own lending criteria Nationwide had to ask Miss T to 
supply her payslip so that it could carry out checks as to affordability. So, I do think this was 
a reasonable request and one which I would expect a lender to make in order to satisfy itself 
that the borrowing was affordable for Miss T. 
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt get some things right and because of that it offered 
Miss T £150 compensation. Ive given this some further thought to assess whether that offer 
was fair and reasonable. When this service considers what an appropriate level of 
compensation might be, we take into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, 
upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
Ive taken account of the fact that Miss T is a key worker and was no doubt working very 
hard during these very difficult times, and so having to chase up Nationwide at the same 
time would have been onerous and very frustrating.  Ive taken account of the missed call 
back, being cut off and being kept on hold for a long time. On the other hand, Nationwide were trying to work through the pandemic which has been 
very difficult for all businesses. That said, the inability to secure the more advantageous 
product was not as a result of any delay. 
In my view any award for the trouble and upset caused here, also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of daily life we all face when dealing with other people, 
businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Nationwide of £150 is a fair 
and reasonable recompense for effect of the service failures upon Miss T.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay Miss T £150 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Miss T £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman