DRN-3358378
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) provided 
incorrect pricing information for some shares on their platform.
What happened
Mr M held an online, execution only trading account with HLAM. At the end of May 2021 he 
began monitoring the price of some shares with the intention of selling when they hit a price 
of 161. The online price held at 160 and Mr M then became aware that the online pricing 
information was incorrect. Mr M says he reasonably relied upon the information HLAM 
provided and was disappointed to discover that the share price had actually risen to 173.   
Mr M says he has lost out as he would have sold the shares had HLAM presented the 
correct information.
HLAM accept that incorrect information displayed over a two-day period, which was down to 
an issue with the third-party provider. They rely upon disclaimers within the terms and 
conditions for the account and maintain that it was for Mr M to have monitored the share 
price independently. Further, Mr M would have received an accurate, live quote from the 
market had he placed an order to sell. HLAM say they make it clear that pricing data is only 
ever indicative.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought it was likely that HLAM knew there 
was an issue with the data feed, so they ought to have notified their clients, especially as the 
problem persisted for two days. It was reasonable for Mr M to rely on the data provided by 
HLAM and he was let down by not being informed of the pricing errors, especially as HLAM 
accepted they had the functionality to notify clients about issues with pricing. Our 
investigator thought that Mr M should be compensated for the inconvenience caused by 
being provided with incorrect information and recommended £150. However, on balance, our 
investigator did not accept that Mr M had demonstrated any financial loss. Despite the share 
price having hit 161 on several occasions since May 2021, Mr M had chosen not to sell at 
this original target price.
Mr M disagrees with the suggested redress. He maintains that he would have sold the 
shares at 173p and seeks the difference between the average cost of 161p and 173p. Mr M 
accepts that it was his decision not to sell at a later point in time.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Factually, there is little dispute in this complaint. HLAM concede that the pricing data was 
incorrect over the two-day period. I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr M would likely 
have been considering the information provided. Given the duration of the error, I think it is 
more likely than not that Mr M was inconvenienced by the misleading information and I have 
seen that he took time to contact HLAM to raise these concerns by both phone and email. 
HLAM also accept that Mr M was inconvenienced by what happened. On balance, I consider 
that it is fair and reasonable to compensate for this information shortcoming. I consider that 
£150 is fair compensation.
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that he has lost out financially because of errors by 
HLAM. Ive thought carefully about this, but on balance, I am not persuaded that Mr M has 
established a financial loss. Its common ground that Mr M wasnt prevented from trading 
and the live quote option remained open at the time. Ive also noted that Mr M hadnt set a 
limit order and HLAM had highlighted that independent checks should also be undertaken. 
Whilst, Mr M has given a consistent account that his target price at the time was 161, Im 
mindful not to assess this matter with the benefit of hindsight. Ive also considered that since 
May 2021 Mr M hasnt sold the shares and has purchased more, despite the price of the 
shares having met the target of 161 or above on several occasions. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr M, but it is also my view that he hasnt taken reasonable steps to mitigate any losses. 
Taking all these factors into account, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to ask HLAM to do 
anything more. 
Putting things right
I consider that HLAM should pay £150 to Mr M to compensate for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint in part. I direct Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited to pay Mr M £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman