DRN-4434570
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down his claim under his 
Motor Trade Road Risks insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim under his policy for damage to a car registered in his partners name. 
Ageas turned down his claim on the basis the vehicle was not owned by him, leased to him 
or in his custody or control as a motor trader. 
Mr K wasnt happy about Ageass decision and complained to it. But it wouldnt alter its 
stance. So Mr K asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators did this. She said she didnt think it should be upheld. This was 
because she thought Ageass decision to turn down Mr Ks claim was fair based on the 
available evidence. 
Mr K isnt happy with the investigators assessment and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the same 
reasons.
Mr Ks policy certificate makes it clear that it provided cover for the following:
Any motor Vehicle owned by the Policyholder or leased to them under a vehicle leasing
agreement of at least 12 months duration or in their custody or control in connection
with their business as a motor trader, excluding motor vehicles which are owned, hired,
loaned or leased by any employee of the Policyholder unless the motor vehicle is in their
custody or control in connection with their business as a motor trader.
And his policy document says that the policy covers loss or damage to any insured vehicle. 
Insured vehicle is defined in the policy as follows: 
Any motor vehicle owned by you or lent, hired or leased to you under a vehicle leasing 
agreement or in your custody or control in connection with your business as a motor trader.
The vehicle Mr K claimed for was registered to his partner and Mr K has said it was 
purchased by her. Therefore, I can understand why Ageas turned down Mr Ks claim based 
on the policy certificate and wording, i.e. because he didnt own the vehicle, it was not 
leased to him and it wasnt in his custody or control in connection with his business as a 
motor trader at the time it was damaged. 
I appreciate Mr K considers the vehicle is jointly owned by him and his partner. But I do not 
think this is the case, as it was not purchased jointly; for example  from a joint bank 
account. I say this because our investigator asked Mr K who purchased the car and he said 
it was his partner. So I dont think Mr K can show that he part-owned the vehicle he has 
claimed for. 
Mr K has also suggested he was in the process of selling the vehicle for his partner at the 
time it was stolen. But he hasnt been able to provide any further evidence to support this. 
And I do not consider the fact he has said that he was is enough for me to conclude Ageass 
decision to turn down his claim was incorrect on the basis the vehicle was in his custody or 
control as a motor trader at the time it was damaged. 
I appreciate Mr K has suggested Ageas should pay a smaller amount on his claim than it 
would normally cost to repair his partners vehicle. But there is no cover under his policy for 
it, so I do not think it is obliged to pay anything at all. 
It therefore follows that Im satisfied Ageass decision to turn down Mr Ks claim was fair and 
reasonable. This means it is not appropriate for me to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about 
Ages Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman