DRN-2967342
The complaint
Mrs T complains to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) that she wasnt informed when a 
transaction was declined. She also complains about the level of service shes received since 
she raised her complaint with Barclays.
What happened
Mrs T is a customer of Barclays and holds a credit card account with them.
On 14 October 2020, Mrs T tried to make a transaction for around £100 using her credit card 
but the payment was declined. She says she contacted Barclays through their live chat 
function and complained about the declined transaction. She says she was told shell receive 
a pack in the post with Barclays response to her complaint.
On 24 October 2020, Barclays called Mrs T, and she says she was unhappy to receive a 
phone call as she was expecting an answer through the post. Mrs T also says she is 
unhappy with the service she received during the live chat a few days earlier.
In response to Mrs Ts complaint, Barclays explained that they didnt receive the monthly 
minimum payment in time and by the deadline of 9 October 2020. They say Mrs T had made 
payment on 13 October 2020 and it hadnt cleared on her account until 14 October 2020  
after the transaction she made was declined. Barclays say in line with their terms, they 
declined the transaction and also charged Mrs T a £12 late payment fee on 12 October 
2020. As a gesture of goodwill, they have since refunded the late payment fee.
Barclays also say that Mrs T hadnt provided further details of why she was unhappy with the 
service she received through the live chat, so they hadnt investigated further.
Mrs T, unhappy with Barclays response, brought her complaint to our service as she 
believes she wasnt informed the transaction she made had been declined. Barclays say 
they sent Mrs T a Default Sum Notice which highlighted the late payment fee applicable to 
her missing monthly payment. And they say the terms and conditions of her account allow 
them to restrict use of her account and this was communicated to Mrs T in her monthly 
statement dated 12 October 2020.
Our investigator found that Barclays relied on their terms fairly in restricting Mrs T the use of 
her card. She also found that it was not Barclays responsibility to inform Mrs T of the 
declined transaction. The investigator also explained that she hasnt been able to investigate 
Mrs Ts concerns around some of the customer service she received due to the lack of 
information provided. But she did find that Barclays hadnt acted unfairly by calling Mrs T to 
discuss her complaint. 
Mrs T disagrees saying she finds it strange theres no record of the live chat she had with 
Barclays. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and I think Barclays have relied on their 
terms fairly. Ill explain why.
My starting point are the terms and conditions to Mrs Ts account. I can see under a section 
called Monthly payment, it says, You must pay at least your minimum payment by the 
due date shown on your statement every month.. And, under Restricting the use of your 
account, it says, We may prevent or limit the use of your accountbecause the risk of you 
not paying any current or future balance on your account has significantly increased.
I can also see from a monthly statement for Mrs Ts account dated 12 October 2020 under a 
section called Important message, your account has been suspended, it says, The use of 
any cards by you will be refused until your payments are up to date.. This message was 
displayed prominently on the first page of the statement.
Barclays has told us that Mrs Ts minimum monthly payment hadnt cleared until 14 October 
2020, when it should have been received and cleared by 9 October 2020. So, Im satisfied, 
that in line with their terms, they have fairly declined the transaction Mrs T attempted to 
make. Im also satisfied that Barclays clearly communicated the restriction placed on Mrs Ts 
account to her with the important message displayed on the front page of her monthly 
statement balance.
Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays should have informed Mrs T of the declined 
transaction. Barclays has told us they wouldnt normally send a notification to their 
customers that a transaction has been declined as they believe it to be the responsibility of 
the merchant to confirm if a successful payment has been made. Im also unaware of 
anything that suggests Barclays do need to inform its customers of a declined transaction. 
So, I think Barclays havent acted unreasonably by not communicating a declined 
transaction to Mrs T.
Mrs T has said that she was unhappy with the live chat service Barclays offered. Barclays 
say they have tried to locate the live chat theyve held with Mrs T and couldnt find any. Our 
investigator also asked Mrs T for further details about the live chat to share with Barclays to 
help them locate it. Shes confirmed that she used the phone number Barclays has on 
record, but she couldnt recall the date the chat took place. While Ive been unable to review 
the chat history, Barclays appear to have responded to Mrs Ts concerns as she was called 
back in relation to her complaint. They have also removed the £12 late payment fee as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Having listened to the call Mrs T had with Barclays on 24 October 2020, I can see she told 
Barclays she expected to receive a pack through the post about her complaint rather than an 
answer over the phone. Barclays explained in that same call that it wouldnt be a pack shell 
receive but rather a letter which should arrive soon in the post, if she hadnt already received 
it. Barclays told us that they called Mrs T to gather further information from her about her 
complaint, in line with their complaints handling procedure. I dont think Barclays has done 
anything wrong in calling Mrs T. I appreciate Mrs T has suggested she doesnt feel 
comfortable sharing information over the phone to verify identity. But Barclays wasnt to 
know this at the time of calling. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays need to do anything further as I believe they have acted fairly, 
in line with the terms of the account.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman