DRN-3237710
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society encouraged them to take 
out an overdraft facility they didnt need. They say when they could not repay the overdrawn 
balance of their account on demand, Nationwide then didnt properly explain the impact of an 
arrangement to pay on their credit files.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M opened a joint account with Nationwide in 2017, they say at that time all they 
needed the account for was to pay in some cheques. Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide 
encouraged them to take out an overdraft facility for £600 on the account that they did not 
need or want.
On reviewing the account in early 2019 Nationwide decided that it no longer wished to offer 
Mr and Mrs M the overdraft facility. So it wrote to them to explain they had until 26 February 
2019 to repay the balance before the limit would be removed, and to suggest Mr and Mrs M 
get in touch if they could not repay the overdraft within that period of time.
Mrs M contacted Nationwide to explain that she and Mr M would not be able to repay the 
overdraft so soon. After some discussion about Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, 
Nationwide agreed to set an arrangement to pay on the account whereby the overdraft limit 
would reduce by £10 each month until the overdraft was repaid. Mrs M says that during this 
conversation Nationwide did not explain that the arrangement would show on her and Mr Ms 
credit files for 6 years. She says if she had been aware of this, she would have found 
another way to repay the overdraft.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide about what had happened. Nationwide didnt agree 
that it had done anything wrong, it said that it had initially explained that the arrangement 
would show on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files but hadnt set out that this record would stay on 
the credit files for 6 years. Nationwide did though note that it had explained the information 
would stay on the files for 6 years during a later phone call. Nationwide also said that all the 
appropriate checks had been done when agreeing to give Mr and Mrs M the overdraft limit. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to us.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think 
Nationwide had acted unfairly in either giving Mr and Mrs M the overdraft, or in what it said 
about the repayment arrangement. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, and so the complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
and financial difficulties - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on 
our website. And Ive considered this when deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say they didnt want or need the overdraft that was 
offered to them when they opened this account, but I dont think that means it was wrong or 
inappropriate of Nationwide to highlight that it was an available option. And ultimately they 
decided to take out the overdraft limit they had been preapproved for. Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Mr and Mrs M were pressured or forced into taking the overdraft, just that it 
was offered to them as something they could have and that they decided to take it. Ive also 
not seen anything to suggest that  at the time the overdraft was offered  there was 
anything which should have indicated to Nationwide that Mr and Mrs M might struggle to 
manage or repay the overdraft. Ultimately, Nationwide offered the facility to Mr and Mrs M, 
they chose to take it, and then they chose to use it, so I cant see that Nationwide did 
anything wrong here.
And Nationwides decision to withdraw the facility in 2019 was a commercial decision, based 
on its review of how Mr and Mrs M were using the facility at that time, so not something for 
us to get involved with.
Turning to what happened when Mrs M contacted Nationwide to discuss how to repay the 
overdrawn balance, I can appreciate why Mrs M feels she could have been given more 
information about the long term impact on her (and on Mr Ms) credit file. Ive listened to the 
phone call from February 2019 and Nationwide didnt specifically state that a record of the 
arrangement to pay would remain on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files for 6 years. But Nationwide 
did explain that the arrangement would show on their credit files, and I think that was enough 
to suggest to Mrs M that the arrangement could have an impact on her credit score. 
Nationwide also explained in that call that it couldnt confirm how the arrangement might 
affect any applications for credit that Mr and Mrs M made elsewhere, it also said that Mr and 
Mrs M could take some time to look at other options for repaying the overdraft if they wanted 
to. Im satisfied that Nationwide did provide appropriate information about the potential 
impact of the arrangement on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files, and offered to give them time to 
think about it, so I dont think it did anything wrong here. 
I understand that Nationwide did later explain to Mrs M that a record of the arrangement 
would remain on their credit files for 6 years, and Nationwide has said this is because of a 
change in its process which meant it now required its advisors to share this information. But 
regardless of what Nationwide required its advisers to do, there is no wider requirement for 
lenders to specifically point out that an arrangement to pay can stay on a credit file for up to 
6 years.
And the fact remains that Mrs M had told Nationwide she and Mr M were unable to afford to 
repay the overdraft at that time, and that all they could pay was the minimum payment 
Nationwide would accept of £10 per month. So the information recorded on Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit files does appear to be an accurate record of their financial situation at that time. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs M, but Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt 
acted inappropriately here, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman