DRN-2441908
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Nationwide Building Society declined her application for a new mortgage. 
This meant she couldnt port her fixed term interest rate product and recover the early 
repayment charge shed paid when she redeemed her existing mortgage.
What happened
Miss S took out a capital repayment mortgage for around £136,000 with Nationwide in 2017 
for a term of approximately 34 years. She had an initial fixed interest rate product which was 
due to expire in October 2022. Miss S redeemed the mortgage in December 2019 and 
became liable to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £3,500. Miss S could 
move  port  the interest rate product to a new mortgage on a new property after 
redeeming the old mortgage in line with the terms of the redeemed mortgage.
In April 2020 Miss S applied to Nationwide for a new mortgage. Nationwide declined her 
application. This meant she couldnt port her interest rate product and recover the ERC. 
Miss S thinks Nationwide declined her application unfairly. 
To put things right Miss S would like Nationwide to let her port her previous interest rate 
product, borrow 90% of the value of the property she decides to buy and extend the time for 
doing so. Alternatively, she wants the ERC to be refunded and to be paid compensation for 
the time and stress shes suffered as a result of whats happened. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly in declining Miss Ss application in 
April 2020 or in not refunding the ERC, so didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. Miss S didnt 
accept our investigators view, so Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what the parties have told us and, although I may not mention 
everything theyve said here, Ive taken it into consideration in reaching my decision.
When Miss S was offered her mortgage in 2017, the offer made clear that
(1) an ERC would be payable if she repaid the mortgage during the term of the fixed rate 
product; and
(2) she could keep the interest rate product and not pay an ERC if she moved house and 
Nationwide was able to offer her a new loan, but there was no guarantee any future 
loan application would be accepted.
Miss S had made various applications for decisions in principle over the preceding months 
before she made the April 2020 application. Several had been declined on the basis 
Nationwide felt her credit history was unsatisfactory. 
In early March 2020 Nationwide did agree to lend to Miss S but she didnt go ahead with the 
purchase of the property involved at that time. When Miss S made another application in 
April 2020 Nationwide declined it.
Miss S thinks Nationwides decision was unfair. She argues, amongst other things, that the 
Covid-19 pandemic affected Nationwides willingness to lend and the criteria it applied. She 
says because she was an existing customer, Nationwide should have applied the same 
criteria it had applied in March. And she says the loan to value (LTV) for the property she 
wanted to buy in April was the same as it had been for the property shed been looking at in 
March.
Nationwide says that the agreement to lend in March was only a decision in principle and 
hadnt gone through a full underwriting assessment. A decision in principle is only an 
indication of what a lender might be willing to lend but no guarantee of a mortgage offer once 
a full assessment of the application has been made. Just because it looked as if Nationwide 
might have been willing to lend to Miss S in March 2020, that doesnt mean that application 
would have been successful or that Nationwide was wrong to decline Miss Ss application in 
April. 
Although, under the relevant mortgage rules, Nationwide didnt have to assess whether or 
not the new mortgage would be affordable for Miss S since she was looking to borrow less 
than before, it did look at Miss Ss overall financial situation. Miss S disputes some of its 
findings. But, although Nationwide was concerned about what Miss S could afford, that 
wasnt the only basis for refusing to lend to her in April. 
Nationwide had other concerns including about the conduct of Miss Ss current and savings 
accounts. Nationwide was also unhappy with Miss Ss credit score and that the LTV was 
90% as compared with 72% on the mortgage shed redeemed. Miss S also appeared to be 
holding back around £15,000 from the equity shed released on the sale of her previous 
property after paying her debts, which Nationwide felt could have been used to reduce the 
borrowing. 
Nationwide was entitled to apply its lending criteria at the time Miss S made her application, 
as the mortgage offer had made clear. I think Nationwide gave Miss Ss application fair 
consideration by escalating it to its underwriters for further review after the application was 
initially rejected. Having done so, I think it was reasonable in all the circumstances for 
Nationwide to decide it wasnt prepared to take the increased risk of lending to Miss S on the 
purchase of the new property, particularly where the LTV was significantly higher.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Miss S will be disappointed, I dont think 
Nationwide treated Miss S unfairly in the circumstances by rejecting her application and I 
dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman