DRN-3329888
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited carried out insufficient checks before 
permitting his pension to be transferred out to a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) 
operated by Greenchurch Capital Ltd.
What happened
Mr Bs representative says that in late 2012 Mr B was a self-employed tradesman, aged 37, 
earning £30,000pa and with no experience of investments. He was offered a cash incentive 
by an unregulated introducer (who I assume to be representing UK Pension Transfers Ltd  
see below) to transfer from his Standard Life Group Personal Pension (GPP) to a 
Greenchurch Capital SSAS. He says the introducer told him that he would receive 
significant, guaranteed and risk-free investment returns which were greater than he could 
expect to receive from Standard Life. He was unaware the introducer was not regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
On 21 November 2012 Standard Life updated its records to reflect Mr Bs authority to 
provide policy information to UK Pension Transfers Ltd and it supplied that company with 
plan details including projections. On 25 January 2013 it then received a request to transfer 
his pension to a SSAS set up for a recently-established company in his name, and 
administered from Greenchurchs address.
Standard Life wrote to Mr B directly on 25 February saying the following:
To enable a transfer we require the following:
*Verbal or written acceptance from the receiving pension scheme including BACS details for 
the payment, on company headed paper.
*Confirmation that Greenchurch Capital are the Pension Administrators
*Full details of the scheme

If a transfer of benefits is to go ahead we will need a letter of authority or verbal confirmation from 
the member. We will also need either written or verbal confirmation from the scheme the plan is 
transferring to. The receiving scheme should also confirm their full details (name, address, type of 
scheme and PSTR number)
Please note:
...
If a transfer is to be made we will have to check that certain requirements can be met first. 
Sometimes a transfer may not be possible
As this letter was produced on a Monday I expect Standard Life then subsequently received 
another letter dated the previous Friday, 22 February, in which Greenchurch confirmed it 
was willing to receive the transfer. It provided Standard Life with a copy of the HMRC 
registration certificate for Mr Bs pension scheme, which was dated 6 February 2013. 
Standard Life then says Greenchurch phoned it on 28 February to check the request had 
been received and all requirements had been met. The transfer of about £15,900 took place 
on 1 March 2013.
On 14 June 2013 Mr Bs Greenchurch SSAS purchased 6 class B shares in a limited 
company (which Ill call E) at an apparent cost of £2,000 per share. One of its quarterly 
updates shows this company had set up a new division in the renewable energy sector, 
providing energy assessment services to domestic and commercial clients and the 
installation of solar panels, heat pumps, wind turbines and biomass systems. Es welcome 
letter to Mr Bs home address contains a noteworthy footer:
Please note: We are active supporters of 'The Pension Advisory Service' [TPAS] and do not 
support or condone pension liberation in any form. Any release of pension funds before the due 
date(s) will be subject to taxation and charges (as set by HMRC). Any liberation of pension funds 
should be declared immediately to HMRC by the individual beneficiaries.
This company is still trading and had (when it was last required to disclose this in April 2015) 
514 B shares nominally worth £1 each, split between about 50 investors. As the shares are 
unquoted, what theyre actually worth is entirely dependent on what another buyer is willing 
to pay for them. The sole director of the company owns 4,500 A (priority) shares. The 
company is classified under Other professional, scientific and technical activities.
It appears Greenchurch was aware of what Mr B was investing in and how his business had 
been introduced: it wrote to him on 8 August 2013 to clarify that it did not have a copy of the 
share certificate and suggested that If you have not got a copyplease speak to your 
Introducer in order to obtain this. It went on to say:
Further to our meetings with HMRC and other developments in the market, we do not feel that, as 
a business, we should continue to operate in this market. We therefore made the decision to close 
to new business 6-8 weeks ago. After further assessment, we have also now decided to unwind 
any existing business. As a result, we will be:
1. Seeking to transfer any funds or assets of existing schemes to other Providers, and
2. In due course, resigning as Administrator to those schemes

We have been discussing this development with a number of interested parties and would be 
happy to provide you with some potential options if you wish.
Mr B established a new SSAS with Cranfords in February 2014, and on 1 October 
Greenchurch transferred his funds (including the shares in E in specie). 
Mr Bs representative later complained to Standard Life in October 2019, including that:
- Standard Life should have sent Mr B a factsheet published by TPAS on 14 February 
2013, warning him of the risk of an incentive such as the one he was offered before 
the age of 55 being classed as pension liberation.
- It should have noticed that the sponsoring employer to Mr Bs Greenchurch SSAS was 
a newly established dormant company with no intention to trade.
- It should have noticed that the SSAS itself was only recently registered with HMRC.
- It should have contacted Mr B to identify further warning signs, such as being cold-
called and offered incentives by unregulated party to make non-standard investments.
Notably, these are all specific requirements of guidance that The Pensions Regulator (TPR) 
introduced on 14 February 2013, but which Mr Bs representative will be aware this service 
considers firms should have been allowed a reasonable amount of time to react to and 
implement. The transfer in this case was made within that implementation period, but I note 
that the representative makes a wider point that Standard Life failed in its ever-present 
obligations to act in Mr Bs best interests under COBS 2.1.1 in the FCA handbook.
Standard Life originally didnt consent to our considering this complaint on account of the 
time limits set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. However Ive issued a 
provisional decision confirming that Mr B did bring his complaint within six years from the 
event being complained about (the transfer)  or if later, three years from when he became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) of his cause for complaint. Standard Life 
didnt raise any further points on that aspect of the complaint so Im proceeding on the basis 
that it was raised within the time limits.
I also set out my provisional findings on the merits of the complaint, which Ill repeat below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Bs policy was a personal pension, Standard Life was regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA, subsequently FCA) in its operation. There have never been any 
specific FCA rules on the checks transferring providers need to make before someone can 
transfer from a personal pension.
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to. Firms must 
always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance from the FCA in a 
particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension liberation. The most 
relevant principles (in the PRIN section of the rulebook) to this case were:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
As Mr Bs representative has mentioned, a firm must also act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client, which is known as the 
clients best interests rule at COBS 2.1.1R in the handbook.
The FSA had issued a number of warnings on its website in June and July 2011 about the 
dangers of what it referred to as pension unlocking. This included that consumers might be 
cold-called by unregulated advisers and encouraged to release cash from their pensions 
ahead of retirement. At the time, the FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and TPR 
(which regulated occupational pension schemes) to address this. In turn, TPR confirmed on 
its website in December 2011 and March 2012 that it was working with HMRC and FSA to 
prevent and disrupt liberation, and urging consumers to be vigilant. I gather that TPAS 
and/or the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau (NFIB) began sharing lists of suspicious 
schemes from a certain point in time.
As a result, I think its clear that Standard Life would have been aware that liberation was a 
problem affecting the industry. But its important to note that before 14 February 2013 the 
awareness promoted by both FSA and TPR, internal industry watchlists, and potentially its 
own experience of transfers that had turned out poorly, were the only real sources of 
information Standard Life had as to the extent of this problem. As no formal guidance had 
been circulated it was a matter for its own judgement how to apply this awareness in a way 
that was consistent with the FSA/FCAs principles and rules.
When guidance was published by TPR on 14 February 2013, I think it was also directly 
relevant to FSA/FCA regulated firms. It might not have been set out specifically by reference 
to those firms PRIN or COBS obligations  so in that sense it represented a step-change in 
how all businesses were expected to approach pension transfers after that point. But it was 
endorsed by the FSA, so it was clearly relevant to how Standard Life could comply with its 
PRIN and COBS obligations in future. The issue in Mr Bs case is whether Standard Life 
could reasonably have been expected to apply this guidance (including sending the TPAS leaflet) on a transfer request it was literally assessing a little over a week after that guidance 
was published. And I find that this is not a reasonable expectation.
A provider couldnt know whether suspending all transfers was the right or proportionate 
thing to do until it had read and digested what TPR had published. And ideally, assessed 
whether it was practicable to introduce some safeguards promptly enough that the majority 
of bona fide transfers would not need to be delayed, whilst focusing on the ones that were 
likely to be of concern. It would also need some time to incorporate the TPAS leaflet into its 
mailings (although I would additionally make the point here that TPR expected the leaflet to 
be included with a transfer quotation  and in Mr Bs case policy information had already 
been issued to UK Pension Transfers Ltd before the guidance was even published).
Its notable that the particular warning signs Mr Bs representative considers Standard Life 
should have identified are largely drawn from the steps the February 2013 TPR guidance 
expects businesses to take. For example: from investigating addresses at Companies 
house, gathering further information from the consumer directly to assess the risk of 
liberation, checking how recently the receiving scheme was registered (rather than whether it 
was registered) and so on.
In order to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable to both parties, Ive considered how 
Standard Life should have reacted to Mr Bs transfer request largely in light of knowledge it 
would reasonably already have had from previous TPR and FSA announcements about 
liberation  not specifically from the recently introduced guidance of February 2013. And Ive 
considered that knowledge in light of Standard Lifes existing PRIN and COBS obligations.
However even in this regard I do think its fair to say that the unprofessional nature of 
Greenchurchs original approach to Standard Life would have at least generated some 
curiosity. I doubt Standard Life would have heard of Greenchurch as a SSAS administrator, 
as we know the company was set up about two months before it first requested Mr Bs 
transfer. I make this point as an observation, not because the age of a company or scheme 
had been flagged up as something Standard Life should have specifically have been 
concerned about until it implemented the TPR guidance. But it would broadly be reasonable 
to say a company that Standard Life is unlikely to have heard of before would have 
warranted at least a slightly closer look, in light of industry-wide concerns about liberation.
From what I can see, Greenchurch did have a website which prominently displayed a notice 
dated February 2013 that it was not facilitating pension liberation1. Whilst the wider 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint and Greenchurchs withdrawal from the industry after 
dialogue with HMRC might call that statement into question, I have to consider whether such 
a statement would have been likely to raise suspicion in February 2013.
Greenchurch was providing SSASs which are a more bespoke pension arrangement for 
small businesses, and not thought at the time to be the focus of pension liberation activity. 
Thats not surprising given that a consumer establishing a SSAS will already need to have 
their own company, and hold the roles of director and also trustee of the SSAS. Whereas 
none of these more onerous requirements were needed for them to participate in the classic 
type of multi-member occupational scheme being commonly used for pension liberation 
activity at that time.
Apart from one or two major SSAS administrators in the industry, most others were relatively 
small. And before it had implemented the TPR guidance, Im not satisfied Standard Life 
should have concluded a newly established scheme was a warning sign in itself. Or that the 
administrators denial that it was involved in liberation activity should automatically be 
1 http://web.archive.org/web/20130615104953/http://www.greenchurchcapital.co.uk:80/suspected as meaning the opposite. Mr Bs representative may point out that an unregulated 
introducer had been in contact with Standard Life previously, but Ive taken into account that 
this was a request for information  and such companies could legitimately be involved with 
occupational pension schemes which werent regulated by the FSA.
Mr Bs representative argues that Standard Life could not have satisfied its COBS (or PRIN) 
obligations without asking Mr B further questions. Standard Life did ask Mr B some 
questions at a time when it wasnt yet satisfied it had enough information to make the 
transfer. However, those questions were adequately answered by Greenchurch. On balance 
and taking into account that this transfer was made at a very early stage in the introduction 
of the TPR guidance, Im satisfied that any initial curiosity prompted by the manner of the 
first transfer request would have been adequately resolved by the second request.
Greenchurch appeared to be a legitimate SSAS administrator, which HMRC had allowed to 
register a new scheme for Mr B. That scheme was not, at that time, likely to be seen as 
anything other than a typical pension arrangement that carried specific advantages for a 
small company like Mr Bs. Without the benefit of hindsight, it would have seemed that Mr B 
had a statutory right to transfer to such an arrangement which he would likely be intent on 
exercising having already established a pension scheme for his own company. Given 
Standard Life couldnt reasonably have implemented the TPR guidance at the time it 
transferred Mr Bs pension, Im not satisfied it had a reason to ask Mr B for anything else.
Overall, Im satisfied that the overarching requirements under the FCA Principles and COBS 
2.1.1R were adequately met by the steps Standard Life took to check Mr Bs SSAS was 
HMRC registered and to request that properly prepared paperwork was submitted. As such, 
I consider these steps were also consistent with good industry practice at the relevant time.
My final decision
Neither party raised any further comments to the conclusions which were reached in my 
provisional decision as set out above. Having reviewed the matter again I havent found any 
grounds to depart from those conclusions. I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint or make any 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman