DRN-2767113
The complaint
Mr C and Ms C complain that Evergreen Finance Limited irresponsibly approved a hire 
purchase agreement for them that they couldnt afford.
The complaint was brought by Mr C, and for ease of reason Ill refer mainly to him.
What happened
On 30 July 2019 Mr C and Ms C took out a hire purchase agreement with Evergreen to 
finance the purchase of a used caravan. The caravan was seven years old. The agreement 
was for £17,300, with monthly repayments of £292 over 72 months.
Mr C said he already had a caravan, and was interested in having another caravan on the 
same site. He said he wanted this just for letting out. He said he saw the advertisement for 
the van, and met with a member of the sales team for the park where the caravans were 
located.
Mr C said the sales person tried to get him credit with a finance provider but this was 
declined. He said this was because hed only recently started a new job, and he had 
outstanding finance on his other caravan. He said he then provided his mothers details, Ms 
C, as the sales person asked him for someone with an income who could go on the 
agreement with him.
He said he provided brief information about his mothers expenditure. He said he was told 
later that day that the finance had been agreed. He said he signed the agreement that day 
but his mother wasnt available to sign it. He said she didnt sign the agreement until almost 
two months later.
Mr C says the contract was misrepresented to him by the caravan park, and that the 
affordability of the agreement wasnt taken seriously by the sales team on the park. He also 
said the paperwork wasnt properly signed. He said he was told by Evergreen that they dont 
provide Finance solely for commercial purposes, yet he was granted this credit when hed 
said he wanted the caravan to let out to others.
Mr C also complained that the van wasnt of a satisfactory quality. He reported a number of 
issues in August 2019, and more in November 2019.
Evergreen said they were satisfied that all of the paperwork related to the agreement was 
correctly signed by him and his mother. They said they accepted the application was 
affordable based on the proof of income provided by Mr C, for him and his mother.
They said it is true to say they dont provide finance solely for commercial purposes, but they 
dont consider a private buyer letting a caravan to be commercial use.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt that the checks Evergreen did to assess 
whether or not the agreement was affordable for Mr C and his mother were sufficient. She 
said they reviewed around three months worth of bank statements for both Mr C and Ms C, 
and this enabled them to review their monthly incomes and financial commitments. She said 
she was satisfied that the information they considered confirmed that the agreement was 
affordable.
She also said that the many of the issues with the caravan appeared to be due to wear and 
tear, so she didnt think this meant it wasnt of a satisfactory quality. She said there were 
issues that hadnt been fixed, but she couldnt say Evergreen were responsible for this as Mr 
C hadnt made them aware of the issues.
She considered the issue about whether or not the agreement allowed for commercial use. 
She said she was satisfied that it was reasonable to say that Mr C letting it out privately 
wasnt considered to be commercial use. So the agreement wasnt mis-sold.
She also considered the concerns Mr C raised about the signatures on the credit agreement. 
She said she was satisfied by the evidence provided that Mr C signed the agreement on 24 
July 2019, and Ms C signed the agreement two days later when she went to the caravan 
park.
Mr C disagreed, and the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with the caravan under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Mr C has also complained about the caravan park who supplied the caravan. But I can only 
consider the parts of the complaint I consider Evergreen were responsible for, as they 
provided the regulated agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Evergreen lent to Mr C and 
Ms C. It required Evergreen to lend responsibly. Its rules and guidance are found in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), available online. The rules required them to take 
reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to 
meet loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
The relevant rules are set out in CONC 5.3.1(G). They required Evergreen to assess 
creditworthiness. The rules stated that they needed to consider Mr C and Ms Cs ability to 
meet the repayments in a sustainable manner. This means without them needing to borrow 
from elsewhere or rely on assets or savings, and without going into financial difficulty.
 
The rules dont set out what Evergreen needed to do to carry out an appropriate assessment 
or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. Whats proportionate would 
depend on a number of factors including the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation  amongst other factors.The rules require their checks to be borrower-focussed. Its not an assessment of the risk to 
Evergreen of them not getting their money back: its the risk to the borrowers, Mr C and his 
mother, of getting into financial difficulty as a result of the decision to lend.
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the borrower.
Like our investigator, when considering Mr Cs complaint, I have considered the following 
questions:
did Evergreen complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr C and Ms Cs application to satisfy itself that they would be able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Evergreen said that they considered income details provided by Mr C and his mother when 
considering whether or not the agreement was affordable. Ive seen the forms completed by 
Mr C and Ms C. The Affordability Assessment  income and expenditure form completed by 
Mr C showed he had a monthly disposable income of £300. The income and expenditure 
form completed by Ms C showed she had a monthly disposable income of £1,400.
Both forms have been completed with expenditure covering a range of items, including 
rent/mortgage, utilities, and other borrowing. 
Ive also seen the bank statements from Mr C and his mother considered by Evergreen. And 
the pay statements provided by Ms C. I havent seen pay statements confirming Mr Cs 
salary, although the bank statement for July 2019 shows his salary, matching what he 
declared on Evergreens affordability assessment form.
I cant see that Evergreen did a credit reference agency check, and that isnt necessary 
under the rules. But, based on the information provided by Mr C, it looks like both he and his 
mother had a good credit score. 
The credit reports hes provided shows that between them, he and his mother had bank 
accounts and credit agreements with different providers. All of these were up to date, with no 
arrears or defaults.
The rules required Evergreen to consider Mr C and Ms Cs ability to make repayments under 
the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person 
in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay 
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial 
situation.
To do this Id have expected Evergreen to confirm their income  Ive said above that I can 
see that they confirmed Ms Cs income, but it doesnt look like theyve considered Mr Cs 
income. 
Evergreen provided us with the bank statements they considered, covering the three-month 
period before they entered into the agreement. The statements, for both Mr C and his 
mother show that their accounts had a positive balance at the end of each of the three 
months. His accounts showed a positive closing balance at the end of each month of more 
than £700. Ms Cs statements showed a positive balance of more than £2,500, £4,160 and 
£4,450 in each month.
 
I think it was reasonable at this point based on this information for Evergreen to consider the 
lending was affordable. Theyd have seen Ms Cs salary, the credit reports with a number of 
accounts with no defaults, income and expenditure forms showing available disposable 
income, and bank statements showing a significant positive balance. Im satisfied that this 
showed that Evergreens check was proportionate, and that the repayments were 
sustainable.
Mr C said that the pay statements werent an accurate reflection of the monthly pay his 
mother received. He said this was because her pay was higher in the summer months. I 
cant see that Mr C or his mother made Evergreen aware of this at the time. The information 
on the payslips was supported by the income seen on the bank statements  so I think it was 
reasonable for Evergreen to rely on this information.
Mr C has supplied a significant amount of information about his income and expenditure. But 
I have to consider whether or not the checks Evergreen did to consider the affordability of 
the loan were proportionate. Im satisfied there was sufficient information for them to 
consider the agreement was likely to be affordable.
So for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it was reasonable and proportionate, and in line 
with the rules set out in CONC, for Evergreen to base its lending decision on a review of Mr 
C and his mothers credit reference files, her income, and their bank statements. And I think 
it was reasonable for Evergreen to conclude from that information that the agreement was 
affordable.
The signatures on the agreement
Mr C says that his mother didnt sign the agreement until three months later than Evergreen 
said she did. I can see there was correspondence between the caravan park sales team and 
Mr C, requesting documents to be signed by his mother and returned to them. And that 
some of this paperwork wasnt signed until September 2019. 
But Ive also seen the Hire Purchase Agreement. This, and the pre-contract information 
sheet, is signed by both Mr C and Ms C  by him on 24 July 2019, and by her on 26 July 
2019. Theres nothing to suggest that either of the signatures has been forged. And there is 
testimony from Evergreen that Ms C did attend the park on 26 July 2019 to sign the 
agreement. So Im persuaded the agreement was properly signed.
Im satisfied the information the park was chasing was the handover document, not the hire 
purchase agreement.
The condition of the caravanMr C complained that the caravan had faults, and that he shouldnt have to pay the monthly 
payments for the time he waited for the repairs to be completed. Ive considered this and 
reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
The caravan was seven years old when he entered into the agreement. The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that goods provided under a hire purchase agreement should 
be of satisfactory quality. This means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. That would include the age of the caravan and previous use of it. 
Id expect a seven-year old caravan to show some signs of wear and tear. I consider the 
issues he reported, such as the stained mattress, a leaking shower, a sagging arm in the 
couch, fire alarms broken, a broken shower slide rail, a faulty window and a door that didnt 
shut properly, all to be things that youd reasonably expect to wear over time.
The caravan park offered to repair these items, and even if I considered they were faults at 
the time of supply, that is the correct response under the CRA. I can see that it took some 
time for these issues to be fixed, but I cant hold Evergreen responsible for that. This is 
because they werent made aware of the issues. 
Commercial use
Mr C says he wanted the caravan so that he could let it out to others. He said he shouldnt 
have been allowed to enter the agreement as Evergreen dont lend for solely commercial 
purposes.
Mr C is unhappy with how theyve defined commercial. They say you can let out your 
caravan to others and this isnt considered to be commercial use. I can see why he thinks 
this is confusing. But the terms are clear that you can let out the caravan privately, and this 
wont be considered as commercial use. So whilst it may seem contradictory to him, I dont 
think it was misleading, or that it wouldve had any impact on his decision to enter into the 
agreement.
Payment holiday request
Mr C also complained that he was unfairly declined a payment holiday by Evergreen. He 
said he made a request under the provisions set out by the FCA for consumers struggling to 
make repayments because of coronavirus.
Evergreen refused his request. They said the payment holiday didnt apply because the 
agreement was for a caravan, which they considered as a luxury  financed for the benefit 
of holidays. They also said that a payment break had been granted in April, May and June 
2020, and that the account was in arrears at the time of the request.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Evergreen to decline the request. Mr C had already had a 
payment holiday, and was already in arrears. He said hed missed a payment because 
money is extremely tight and I had to lend money to pay off the debt. Im not satisfied that 
his financial difficulties were due to the Coronavirus. I accept that he was unwell with Covid 
from January, but hed already missed payments by this time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman