DRN-3196343
The complaint
Ms I complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
L2G lent Ms I a loan of £1500 in January 2020, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I will explain 
why.
L2G gathered some information from Ms I before it agreed to the loan. It asked her for her 
monthly income and then verified this amount using an online verification tool. It then asked 
her questions about expenditure. It finally then carried out a credit search to check against 
any existing credit commitments.
Ive seen how L2G asked about Ms Is financial circumstances by asking Ms I to disclose her 
income and expenditure as well as by checking her credit file. But Im not satisfied that these 
checks went far enough. I say that because the amount Ms I would need to repay back was 
relatively high compared to her income and was to be repaid over a term of 18 months. L2G 
needed to ensure the repayments were sustainable over that period of time.
For the above reason, I consider L2Gs checks should have included a full review of Ms Is 
financial circumstances, including verification of her expenditure so it could ensure that the 
loan repayments were affordable. So, I dont think the checks it carried out were 
proportionate.
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ms I has provided her bank statements from around the time she applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that L2G should have done. But I think looking at her 
bank statements would give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
I have looked through the bank statements. When I look at her expenditure in relation to her 
income on these statements, I agree with our Investigator, that it looks like she had enough 
disposable income each month to comfortably afford the loan repayments and that Ms Is 
income and expenditure was similar to that disclosed by her to L2G. On seeing this I am 
persuaded that if L2G had carried out further checks it would have seen the loan was 
affordable for Ms I.
Finally, Ms I said the level of interest charged on this loan was not reasonable. I can see that 
L2G provided information about the loan clearly within its pre-contract credit information and 
I havent seen anything that is of concern with the way it arranged the loan. I do think it 
needed to carry out more detailed checks to ensure Ms I could afford the loan. But as I have 
concluded above, if it had carried out further checks, it would have seen that the loan was 
affordable for her. 
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. I dont think L2Gs proportionate checks would have 
suggested that Ms I would have problems repaying this loan. So, I dont think L2G was 
wrong on this occasion to give the loan to Ms I. 
I know this will be a disappointing for Ms I and Im sorry it is not the outcome she was 
looking for. But for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman