DRN-3753910
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a life assurance and critical illness cover policy sold to her in 1991 was 
unsuitable. Responsibility for the sale of the policy now sits with Phoenix Life Limited. 
What happened
Mrs Cs complaint initially said Mrs C wasnt made aware of other options when sold the 
policy, and she wasnt asked how long shed need the cover of the policy for. 
In response, Phoenix couldnt see other options had been discussed. They felt a term 
assurance policy offering the same level of cover until Mrs C retired at 60 would have been 
more appropriate. They said the money that could have been saved by having that lower 
cost policy  plus interest at the courts 8% rate  was less than Mrs Cs whole-of-life policy 
held as its surrender value. 
Phoenix therefore viewed Mrs C as not having lost out, even if the policy was mis-sold. 
A claims management company helping Mrs C with her complaint questioned why the 
simulated term policy would end when Mrs C was 60, and not some earlier point. Phoenix 
noted Mrs C was currently 60, and hadnt questioned having life cover prior to that. So they 
felt this showed Mrs Cs intention to have some sort of life cover up to that age. 
In their contact with us, Mrs Cs representative said a better term to have used would be 13 
years  when Mrs Cs youngest child had reached independence. They also questioned the 
need for the cover, given Mrs C was noted to have other life policies in 1991. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but decided Phoenix didnt need to do more to 
resolve it. He found the term assurance policy matched with Mrs Cs noted wish for family 
protection. And he considered Phoenixs remedy calculation was fair. 
Mrs Cs representative disagreed They restated their questions about the need for the cover 
at all, and their opinion that the term being considered should reflect the age Mrs Cs 
children became independent. 
Unresolved, the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
The details from the time of the sale are limited. Thats understandable given the time thats 
passed. But we do have a poor-quality copy of a fact-find document that Phoenixs 
predecessor completed with Mrs C and her husband. 
This had a section listing financial priorities, where Mr and Mrs C were noted to place the 
most importance on family protection and planning for retirement. That adds weight to the 
argument that some sort of product that ran until Mrs C retired was suitable. 
It also arguably says a policy with an investment element  rather than just life and critical 
illness cover  was suitable. The whole-of-life cover Mrs C was sold had that investment 
element to it. It means that her policy has a surrender value which the term assurance 
probably wouldnt have had. 
That makes the whole-of-life cover suitable for the planning for retirement objective noted 
on the fact-find. While a whole-of-life policy wouldnt automatically come to an end when 
Mrs C retired, I understand it could be manually ended. 
Theres no evidence of the adviser discussing other options with Mrs C. But Im not as 
certain that means a term assurance policy would have been chosen over a whole-of-life 
one if there had been more discussion about the options. The whole-of-life policy was only 
modestly more per month to have, and did more to meet Mrs Cs overall objectives.
So I find the sale of the whole-of-life policy to Mrs C in 1991 was reasonable. It seems to 
have been a reasonable fit for her two objectives of family protection  met by the life and 
critical illness cover  and planning for retirement  met by the investment element. 
I appreciate Mrs C and her husband had other life cover policies at the time. But I put weight 
in the fact they seem to have known that was the case. Had the level of cover been higher 
than desired, Mrs C could have seen that and cancelled this policy before now. The fact she 
didnt is consistent with the policies providing her with the level of cover she wanted. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman