DRN-1227762
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money plc declined his application for a credit card, despite being 
told he had a very good chance of being accepted for it.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K applied for a balance transfer credit card with Virgin Money. Hed looked 
at his chances of being approved for it on a credit checker and Virgin Moneys own website, 
and the results of these indicated that he had a good chance of his application being 
accepted. This led to him completing a full application for the credit card. However, Virgin 
Money then declined his application.
Mr K complained as he said his credit score was very good, and there were no reasonable 
grounds for Virgin Money to turn down his application. He said that if he wasnt eligible for 
the full credit amount of his requested balance transfer, then he shouldve been offered the 
card with a reduced limit. Mr K was concerned that his credit record would be adversely 
affected by this, and asked that Virgin Money update it so this wouldnt happen. 
Virgin Money said that when Mr K completed its pre-approval acceptability checker, it had 
said that he would need to also pass its standard identity checks in order to be accepted, 
and he hadnt met its lending criteria at the time he applied. Virgin Money said that the 
declined application wouldnt show on Mr Ks credit report, but this would show that hed 
submitted an application to it. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Virgin Money had made Mr K aware that his application would be subject to other 
standard checks. He said there were a number of reasons why these checks could fail to 
meet Virgin Moneys lending criteria, but he was satisfied that it had made Mr K aware that 
they would be needed. He said the pre-approval checker only provided an indication of 
acceptance, not a guarantee. The investigator said Virgin Money had an obligation to report 
accurate information to credit reference agencies, and this would show that Mr K had made 
an application but not that this was declined.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
didnt think the response was professional, and said it hadnt fully considered or addressed 
his complaint. Mr K felt the findings didnt consider the purpose of a soft credit search, which 
he said is to give a consumer a reasonable indication of whether an application is likely to be 
accepted or not. He said Virgin Money hadnt contacted him to provide additional information 
or to check his details. He said it was unfair to reject his application based solely on identity 
checks and leave a footprint of a credit search on his record. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I do appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling about being declined for the credit card, particularly 
as he had looked to research his likelihood of being accepted for it first and was reassured of 
this.
However, Virgin Money is entitled to reach a decision about who it is willing to offer a credit 
facility to. Although the indication he received from Virgin Moneys pre-approval acceptability 
checker was that his application would be accepted, this also said that it would be subject to 
further checks.  And it was after completing these checks that Virgin Money reached the 
decision that Mr Ks application didnt meet its criteria for lending. 
I can see that Virgin Money didnt contact Mr K to ask him for further information to prove or 
verify his identity, but I dont think this shows maladministration, when the decision to decline 
his application was based upon him not passing the checks to meet its lending criteria.
And, like the investigator has said, this acceptability checker could only give an indication of 
whether a customers application would be accepted based on the information given. It 
wasnt a guarantee of acceptance, as it would always have been dependent on the 
additional checks Virgin Money would carry out.
I can understand why Mr K wouldve been concerned about the impact Virgin Moneys 
decision would have on his credit report. It has explained that this will show as a submitted 
application, rather than showing what the result of that application was. 
Mr K performed two separate acceptability checks; through a company giving access to his 
credit report, and on Virgin Moneys website. And he did this knowing that it would mean a 
soft search would be carried out on his credit report, which would only be visible to him and 
not prospective lenders. I can understand the point hes made that this was to give him a 
reasonable indication as to whether an application for credit was likely to be accepted.  But 
this is an indication subject to further, usually more detailed, checks, not a confirmation of 
acceptance.
So although I can fully appreciate why Mr K feels that Virgin Money has acted unfairly in 
declining his credit card application, I think this was a decision it was entitled to make when it 
did set out that the outcome of the application would be dependent on further checks. It said 
that Mr K could re-apply for a credit card six months after his original application; however I 
understand that Mr K has been accepted for a credit card with another provider.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman