DRN-2379346
The complaint
Mr W isnt happy the wrong beneficiary account details were linked to his fixed-term deposit 
account with Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
What happened
On 7 August 2019, Mr W opened a 12-month fixed-term deposit account with Al Rayan. He 
paid an initial deposit of £5,000 into this account. After the 12-month period had passed, the 
funds would be returned to Mr W. When opening the account, Mr W was asked to provide 
the details of a nominated bank account the funds could be transferred to at the end of the 
fixed term. Mr W provided these details as requested. 
On 30 August 2019, Mr W contacted Al Rayan because he didnt recognise the beneficiary 
details that had been linked to his account. Mr W had made further deposits into the account 
and had a considerable amount invested. So he was concerned a request could be made to 
transfer his money to an account that wasnt his. Al Rayan logged a complaint on 6 
September 2019 so this could be investigated. Mr W was told the incorrect account details 
couldnt be removed, or changed, until their investigation was complete.
Because of the length of time this investigation was taking Mr W was concerned about 
leaving his funds in his account. So he asked Al Rayan to close the account and return his 
money.
Al Rayan initially responded to Mr Ws complaint on 24 October 2019. They didnt say what 
had caused the wrong account to be linked to Mr Ws account. Just that feedback had been 
provided to their IT department about this issue. And they offered Mr W £50 compensation 
for the inconvenience experienced. Mr W didnt accept this. In summary, he said:
He felt either fraud had taken place or that an internal IT error was the cause of this 
issue. He noted that Al Rayan had indicated it was an IT error, but he was aware 
their IT department didnt know how this had happened.
He hadnt been given a satisfactory explanation of how this happened.
Al Rayan had taken a significant amount of time to investigate this. During this time, 
he made multiple calls from abroad and sent emails trying to get this resolved. This 
took several hours of his time and was very stressful.
He repeatedly asked Al Rayan to remove the incorrect account details, but they 
wouldnt do this. 
He was told from the beginning this couldnt have been a mistake by Al Rayan.
So, he didnt feel the £50 offered was enough compensation.
Because of Mr Ws ongoing concerns, Al Rayan issued a further response to his complaint 
on 22 November 2019 which said:
There was an issue with the incorrect details being linked to the fixed-term deposit 
account. But this was an isolated incident and had been passed to their Risk 
Department.
Theyd responded to Mr Ws complaint within the eight-week timescale set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr W had been provided with these timescales when his complaint had been logged. 
So there was no need for him to continue to contact them while they were 
investigating.
They couldnt remove the incorrect details until their investigation had been 
completed. Once an error had been identified, these were removed.
There was no danger of the funds being paid to the incorrect account as it wasnt due 
to mature for 12 months. But they acknowledged that Mr W was told that his 
complaint would be prioritised, and it wasnt.  
So they increased their offer of compensation to £75. 
Mr W didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think that £75 compensation was 
enough. He felt that £175 was the correct level of compensation for the trouble and upset Mr 
W had experienced. Mr W accepted this, but Al Rayan Bank didnt. They said this amount 
was excessive as Mr W wasnt at risk of losing his money. They offered to increase the 
compensation to £100 as a compromise. But Mr W wasnt happy this. So the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Al Rayan have told us that a further review has shown the bank details linked to Mr Ws 
account related to a different customer. Theyve said this customer opened an account at the 
same time as Mr W, and this led to their account details being transferred to his profile. 
Theyve also said this was an isolated incident. So Im satisfied this wasnt fraud. But I can 
see why Mr W thought it might have been, given the limited information available to him at 
the time. And I understand why hed have been worried. I can also see why Mr W was so 
concerned at being told the incorrect account details couldnt be removed until an 
investigation had been completed. 
Al Rayan accept that something went wrong. So I need to consider what impact this had on 
Mr W and what the appropriate compensation is. 
When Mr W first reported this issue to Al Rayan, he was asked if hed entered the wrong 
details. Given the limited information available to both parties at that time, I think this was a 
reasonable question to ask. And when Mr W explained that he hadnt, Al Rayan agreed to 
investigate further. But on 3 September 2019, Al Rayan called Mr W and said they couldnt 
see how theyd linked the wrong details to his account. It was suggested again this was his 
mistake. Mr W replied that he couldnt possibly have guessed another persons account 
details. 
Al Rayan then said this could have been a rare IT error. But at this point, they hadnt 
identified that a mistake had been made. Theyve said that it wasnt until 26 September 2019 
that they identified something had gone wrong. I think they should have made it clear to Mr 
W they were still investigating, and they shouldnt have suggested hed caused the problem, 
when they didnt know what had happened. 
They simply said that feedback would be provided to their IT department. I dont think this 
shows theyd taken his complaint seriously or considered his concerns.While Al Rayan have been able to confirm that an unexpected error occurred, I understand 
why Mr W was concerned. If Al Rayan had told Mr W, when he first contacted them, that his 
money was safe, this would have reassured him, while they investigated what had 
happened. But they didnt do this.
When Al Rayan Bank eventually confirmed that an error had been made, they removed the 
incorrect account details. 
Because of what had happened Mr W asked Al Rayan to close his account on 3 September 
2019.  As this was a 12-month fixed term account early closure had to be signed off by an 
executive. It wasnt until 26 September 2019 Al Rayan accepted a mistake had been made. 
So this was when the request to close the account and return the funds was actioned. This 
was approved on 30 September 2019. Mr Ws money was returned on 8 October 2019, but 
Al Rayan didnt pay him the profit due on his money. The profit of £246.37 was paid on 21 
November 2019. It was originally due to be paid 12 months after the account was opened.
I think it was reasonable for Al Rayan to complete their investigation before returning Mr Ws 
money.
I can certainly appreciate Mr W concerns here. He was told on two occasions that he must 
have entered the wrong account details. But it turned out to be Al Rayans mistake. While Mr 
Ws money wasnt at risk, I cant see that Al Rayan ever told him this, to reassure him.
While Al Rayan returned the main bulk of the funds in a timely manner, they took too long to 
pay the profit made on these funds. While Mr W wasnt entitled to have the funds returned 
with profit until 12 months had passed, once Al Rayan agreed to return them earlier, it 
shouldnt have taken 45 days to pay him the profit made on these funds.
Having considered everything the parties have said I think £175 compensation better reflects 
what Mr W has experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Al 
Rayan Bank PLC. And to put things right I require them to pay him £175 compensation for 
the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman