DRN-3730250
The complaint
D complains about the settlement of its business interruption insurance claim, made in 
relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst other parties 
have been involved in the claim and complaint, I have just referred to D and AXA for the 
sake of simplicity. 
D operates as a dental practice and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten, as far 
as is relevant, by AXA. 
As with many dental practices, the dentists who provide treatment services are not employed 
by the practice and operate as self-employed dentists. However, D has agreements in place 
with these dentists making them associates and arranging for them to be paid fees in an 
agreed manner. Additionally, much of Ds income is received through a private dental 
payment scheme (the scheme). Under the scheme, patients pay an annual charge, and the 
scheme operator pays D a proportion of this. D is then obliged to provide these patients with 
a certain amount of treatment over the course of the year. And pays the associates fees to 
do this.
In March 2020, D suspended its activities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
contacted AXA to claim for its loss of income. AXA ultimately agreed to meet the claim and 
has paid D a settlement. However, D is unhappy with the level of settlement, and has 
specifically complained about the deduction of fees paid to associates. 
In response to Ds complaint, AXA said:
The policy is one of indemnity and so should put the Insured back into the position 
that they enjoyed prior to the loss. If we were to pay the Associates costs as 
requested, the Insured would be in a better financial position than the one they 
enjoyed prior to the loss.
D brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But our Investigator thought 
AXA had acted fairly and reasonably. And did not think Ds complaint should be upheld. D 
remained unsatisfied, and its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on D, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
In general, a policy of this nature will provide cover for a loss of income due to an insured 
event. In calculating this loss, the amount of revenue normally generated will form the initial 
settlement. But any costs that would otherwise have been incurred in generating this income 
will be deducted from this settlement. As a result of the insured event, the policyholder will 
not have had to incur these costs, so has saved on this usual expense. 
For example, a business would normally need to pay an energy bill for lighting its premises. 
The cost of this lighting is part of the operating cost it incurs in generating its income. Where 
the premises are closed, the business doesnt need to light the premises, and makes a 
saving on its energy bill. So, an insurer will deduct this energy bill saving from the lost 
income it is indemnifying the policyholder for. 
In Ds case, the dispute is effectively over whether or not the associate fees were a normal 
cost that D would have had to incur to generate its income, that then was saved as a result 
of the insured event.
The position actually seems to be that during the indemnity period D continued to receive 
income from the scheme and that it paid associate fees relating to this income. In essence, 
this is no different to what happens outside of the indemnity period.
But, as D continued to receive income from the scheme, technically there was no loss of 
income relating to this revenue stream within the indemnity period. 
However, as the liability to provide the services relating to these payments remained, the 
services under the scheme would need to be provided outside the indemnity period. This 
would limit Ds ability to provide other services in, for example, September 2020. 
(Alternatively, customers would need to be refunded for the proportion of services under the 
scheme that were not provided  something D has indicated happened in some instances.)
Given this, AXA has effectively taken the stance that there was a loss of income from the 
scheme for the indemnity period. As the services this income related to could not be 
provided during this period, the income was not considered to have been earned during this 
period. This may not be factually accurate, but given the circumstances I consider this a fair 
and reasonable way of assessing the situation. 
But this also means that the cost of providing these services  specifically, the associate 
fees  was not considered to have been incurred during this period. The associate fees 
related to services rendered outside of the indemnity period. So, AXA considered the 
non-payment of these associate fees to be a saving on what would otherwise have been 
paid. 
I note D has said that, because treatments were effectively postponed, it will never be able 
to catch up on the services, and hence income, it would otherwise have received.
However, the alternative position for AXA to take would have been to determine there was 
no loss of the scheme income during the indemnity period, and that any limiting of Ds ability 
to provide other services outside of the indemnity period was a loss that occurred outside of 
the indemnity period  and thus not something D could claim for under the policy. It is only 
the loss of income within the indemnity period that is covered. 
This is set out in the policy, which says AXA will pay:
the amount by which the gross income during the Indemnity Period shall fall short 
of the gross income during the equivalent period immediately before the damage
Given the wording of the policy here, and the fact that the scheme payments actually 
continued during the indemnity period, I consider AXAs position to be fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of this case.Ds stance, on the other hand, effectively appears to be that it can claim for a loss of income 
from the scheme payments within the indemnity period, whilst also claiming for the costs it 
incurred in earning this non-existent income. I dont consider this would be fair and 
reasonable. And, like AXA, I dont consider that in the circumstances of this complaint, this 
would be in line with the principles of indemnity that underly insurance generally. 
The payment of the associate fees is directly connected to the scheme income. Either D can 
claim for the loss of the scheme income, but with the associate fees relating to this income 
considered to be a saving, or it can say that the associates continued to be paid but that it 
did not suffer a loss of the income to which these payments related. 
I note that for one of Ds associated, payments were made for services which ultimately were 
not rendered by that associate. Presumably, another associate had to be paid to provide 
these services. This is an additional expense (or loss depending on how the situation is 
viewed). However, it seems this was a situation that arose from a dispute between D and the 
associate that ultimately led to D terminating its agreement with the associate. This situation 
may not have arisen had there been no pandemic. However, I do not consider the pandemic, 
specifically an occurrence of COVID-19 within 25 miles of Ds premises  which is what the 
relevant clause requires, to be the proximate cause of any loss here. This situation is too 
remote and removed from the occurrence of disease.
Having considered the matter carefully, I am unable to fairly and reasonably conclude that 
AXA acted inappropriately in deducting the associate fees from the claim settlement. I know 
this decision will be disappointing for D and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a 
thorough explanation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman