DRN-1309959
The complaint
Mrs S complains that PSA Finance UK Limited overcharged her for damage to a car she 
returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs Ss agreement came to an end and the car was collected by a third 
party acting for PSA. The car was inspected and the various areas of damage were 
photographed. The car was taken away and sold at auction. PSA sent Mrs S a bill for 
damages and for missing items totaling £1,985.33. This included missing service stamps a 
parcel shelf along with numerous scratches and dents.
Mrs S complained and PSA said all the items were chargeable, but it offered as a goodwill 
gesture to reduce the charge to £875 which was the loss it had made on the sale of the car. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and so she brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He reviewed the collection report and photographs and the original agreement. He noted this 
said the car should be returned in good condition and that damage which exceeds fair wear 
and tear is the customers responsibility. It also allowed PSA to charge for missing items. He 
concluded the charges were fair and he considered PSAs goodwill offer to be reasonable.
Mrs S didnt agree and said the inspector had told her the car was in reasonable condition. 
She said she had had the car serviced and the damage was simply wear and tear. She 
didnt think it right that she be judged by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing (BVRLA) 
guidelines. She said the car should be judged by the law and not some association. She also 
asked that the inspector be interviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mrs S has shown in pursuit of her complaint, but I dont 
consider I can uphold it. I will explain why,
Mrs S entered into an agreement under which she agreed to return the car in a reasonable 
condition with the service book stamped and all items, such as the spare key, present. The 
service book wasnt up to date, although I gather the car had been serviced. A spare key 
was missing as was the parcel shelf. I note that Mrs S has since told us the shelf was on the 
back seat of the car.
I dont consider I need to speak to the inspector as Mrs S has suggested. He has made his 
report and most importantly he has photographed the damage. The term fair wear and tear 
is to some extent subjective which is why companies like PSA rely on the independent 
BVRLA guidelines. For example, these set out the length of scratch and the depth which falls 
within fair wear and tear. These guidelines allow for an objective evaluation of damage.I can see from the photographs that the car had suffering quite a bit of damage and I agree 
with our investigator that it is all chargeable. Mrs S also agreed that she would return the car 
with a full service history. That means it should have had a stamped service book. It also 
should have had a second key. Mrs S has said the hole in the carpet was due to her resting 
her foot while driving. I would suggest that if she noticed she was causing excessive wear 
and tear to the carpet it would have been advisable to buy a mat.
The reason why the business is entitled to make such charges is to protect itself. It 
calculates the monthly charges on the basis of the likely resale value and this in turn is 
affected by the state of the car at the end of the agreement. In this case the business lost 
£875 and it agreed to accept this sum rather than the full amount it was entitled to charge. I 
consider that to be a generous offer.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman