DRN-4501814
The complaint
Mr H complains about difficulties making a payment from his Santander UK Plc account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H has a current account with Santander and has told us that over the years hes been 
subject to various security checks when trying to make payments. In April 2023 Mr H 
contacted Santander and advised he was intending to purchase a caravan for £12,000. Mr H 
wanted to provide Santander with notice so the payment would be approved.
Mr H has explained he travelled 200 miles to buy the caravan and attempted to make the 
payment of £12,000 to the vendor. But the payment was picked up by Santander for 
additional checks before it could be released. Mr H spoke with various agents at Santander, 
including someone who tried to take the payment over the phone. During Mr Hs calls with 
Santander he explained he was at the vendors residence waiting to collect the caravan. Mr 
H explained he had documentation and identification to verify the purchase was genuine. 
Mr H raised the possibility of visiting a branch to withdraw cash to complete the purchase. 
The final agent Mr H spoke with said that whilst the branch may not have cash available to 
complete the purchase, it would be able to contact the fraud department to arrange for the 
payment to be approved. The agent advised that if the payment was approved in the 
meantime he would call Mr H back to confirm.
The payment was subsequently approved by Santanders back office and made. No call was 
made to Mr H as promised but Santander says it sent a text message to confirm. Mr H says 
theres no record of the text message being received.
Mr H has told us that when he attended the branch he was advised the payment had already 
been approved. So Mr H returned to the vendors home and completed the caravan 
purchase.
Santander issued a final response and said the payment had been correctly highlighted for 
further checks. Santander didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission, Santander said that when Mr H called prior to making the payment he shouldve 
been advised that there was no way to influence whether it would be picked up for further 
checks. Santander also said that when the second payment attempt was held for further 
checks and Mr H asked to speak with a manager he was transferred to the complaints team 
instead without warning. Santander added that the payment was cleared by its back office at 
12:50, but instead of calling Mr H as promised, a text message was sent. Santander offered 
Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator thought Santander had made a fair offer but Mr H asked to appeal. Mr H 
said there have been regular instances of interference by Santander when trying to use his 
account. Mr H added that hed asked an agent whether he suspected fraud and was told no. 
Mr H added hed been sent on an unnecessary visit to the branch despite Santander being 
aware he was on site at the vendors home attempting to complete the purchase and that the 
way the payment had been handled caused a substantial delay and level of inconvenience. 
Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I agree with Mr H that the service provided on the day he purchased the caravan was 
unreasonable. Mr H did everything he could to make sure the payment went through without 
issue. That includes calling Santander in advance to notify it of his intent, taking identification 
with him and ensuring he had the relevant documents available to show the payment he was 
attempting to make was genuine. When the payment was held for further checks, Mr H was 
quick to speak with Santander and complian when asked for information about the intended 
purchase. So I can understand why Mr H was upset and frustrated at being told his payment 
wasnt released despite speaking with several members of staff. Ive taken this into account 
when deciding how to fairly resolve Mr Hs case.
Mr H has explained hes frustrated at the level of interference from Santander when 
attempting to use his account. I can understand why Mr H feels Santanders actions are 
intrusive. But in this decision, the focus is on what happened when he tried to purchase the 
caravan. Banks are allowed to hold payments for further checks. And, here, Santanders 
provided evidence from its systems that confirms the payment for £12,000 Mr H attempted to 
make was highlighted as potentially fraudulent. Whilst I understand that even if everything 
had gone smoothly this wouldve caused Mr H some inconvenience, Im satisfied thats offset 
by the obligation on Santander to ensure it has strong verification processes in place to 
make sure payments are genuine. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent found that the 
initial decision to hold the payment for further checks was unfair or a mistake.
With that said, I think it shouldve been possible for Mr H to approve it without an 
unreasonable level of inconvenience. Ive listened to Mr Hs calls with Santander and found 
he spoke with several people. Mr H was compliant, answered all questions fully, gave 
assurances he was aware of the risks and had the relevant documents. After the second 
payment attempt was referred for checks, Mr H asked to speak with a manager but was 
transferred to a complaints agent instead. During the call handover, I heard the initial agent 
explain she would pass the payment to the back office to review. But that wasnt 
communicated to Mr H. Instead, Mr H spoke with another agent who asked questions and 
attempted to give information that was very much in line with the other people Mr H had
spoken with.
During that call, Mr H attempted to think of ways to complete the purchase. Mr H asked 
about obtaining cash in branch and was given an address to visit. The agent explained that whilst the branch might not have the full cash balance available, staff should be able to 
approve the payment by contacting the fraud department on Mr Hs behalf. The agent 
advised they would call Mr H if the payment was approved. But whilst the payment was 
approved, no call was made to Mr H as promised.
Santanders told us it sent a text message but Mr H has explained that wasnt received. I 
accept the text message was most likely sent, but Mr H had been specifically advised to 
expect a call. And given that Mr H had repeatedly told agents that he was a long way from 
home, in an unfamiliar area and attempting to complete a time sensitive purchase, I can see 
no reason why the agent didnt call as promised. Had they done so, I think Mr H couldve 
potentially avoided an unnecessary visit to a Santander branch in an unfamiliar location.
Santanders also pointed out that when Mr H called in advance of the payment he shouldve
been advised that there was no way to pre-authorise a potential payment. I can understand 
why Mr H called to attempt to ensure there would be no difficulties. And I agree he shouldve 
been given a more comprehensive explanation concerning how the payment approval 
process works.
Taking all the available information into account I havent been persuaded that £150 is a fair 
settlement. In my view a payment of £300 more reasonably recognises the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr H and is a fairer way to resolve his complaint. So unless I 
see any new information that changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Santander to pay him £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Santander confirmed it is willing to proceed 
in line with the settlement I noted in the provisional decision. 
Mr H responded and gave some further background concerning how Santanders actions 
impacted him. Mr H advised further payments hes tried to make have been held by 
Santander. Mr H explained hed decided to end his banking relationship with Santander and 
move accounts elsewhere. Mr H confirmed he was willing to accept the settlement to bring 
matters to a conclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided materially new information that changes the way I think Mr Hs 
complaint should be resolved, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to settle by paying 
him £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman