DRN-4390871
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that their let to buy mortgage application was declined by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires. Theyve said this was due to errors made by 
Birmingham Midshires.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B wanted to move house and rent out their current residential property. To that 
end they applied  through a mortgage broker  for a let to buy mortgage with Birmingham 
Midshires for their current property and a new residential mortgage with Halifax for the new 
property.
There were issues with both lenders in that Mr Bs name was changed in error on the 
applications which led to multiple soft credit searches being carried out each time it was 
changed and changed back. There were also other issues with how the broker had keyed 
the applications, which were corrected, and I understand the projected rental income wasnt 
seen to be as high as the broker had put on the application.
The Halifax mortgage application was declined and the broker raised an appeal against that 
decision. On 8 July 2022 The Halifax underwriter emailed to confirm that he would overturn 
the decline decision for the Halifax application, on the understanding Provided there is no 
new borrowing or adverse
The Halifax application went to offer and subsequently completed in mid-August.
In the meantime the Birmingham Midshires application was declined on 21 July 2022, a 
decision that wasnt appealed at the time.
In December 2022 the broker raised a complaint with Birmingham Midshires. In that he set 
out the details of what he said had happened, and said that on 22 September 2022 hed 
applied for a new let to buy application with Birmingham Midshires and that was accepted. 
He said that due to the mini-budget at the end of September rates had increased to the point 
an application now couldnt be made as it wouldnt meet the stress test. 
Birmingham Midshires didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt know why Mr Bs name 
had been changed but in any event the application wouldnt have been successful as it didnt 
meet Birmingham Midshires affordability criteria and there were discrepancies between the 
applications. It said it couldnt disclose any further information and recommended Mr and 
Mrs B contact a credit reference agency to review their outstanding credit commitments.
The complaint was looked at by one of our Investigators. Whilst he didnt uphold the main 
thrust of the complaint as he didnt think the application would have been successful 
anyway, he said Birmingham Midshires should pay £200 compensation for the error made in 
amending Mr Bs name.
Birmingham Midshires accepted our Investigators findings and recommendation for 
compensation. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Ive carefully considered the legal arguments Mr and Mrs B have made. But the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. It may be the courts would look 
at this matter differently, but my role is to concentrate on what I consider fair and reasonable.  
If Mr and Mrs B feel their claims have merit, then they can test that in court if they wish. 
However I would urge them to get independent legal advice first.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr and Mrs Bs particular situation. When I do that, I dont 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
Whilst Birmingham Midshires agreed to the application in principle, that was all it was; an 
agreement in principle. The application was always then subject to full underwriting and a 
decision on whether or not Birmingham Midshires was willing to lend once it had all the 
supporting evidence and information it needed. 
Mr and Mrs B have said their broker told them that any affordability issues are taken into 
account at the agreement in principle stage, and hes right that they are. However 
affordability is an ongoing consideration as the agreement in principle stage is based on 
what has been declared and what is found on a search. Sometimes that information is wrong 
or incomplete which leads to an application passing the agreement in principle stage when it 
wouldnt have if the correct or complete information had been declared/found. On other 
occasions whilst the application passes the agreement in principle affordability check, when 
an underwriter looks at everything in full they have concerns about the lending proposal 
overall. So it isnt as simple as saying once an application passes the affordability check at 
the agreement in principle stage that affordability is then settled and the application cant 
later be declined.
Mr and Mrs Bs broker appealed the decline decision from Halifax and that was overturned. It 
is unfortunate the broker didnt do the same here with Birmingham Midshires as, had he 
done so, it may be the application would have been agreed at that time. However, as he 
didnt make an appeal at the time we cant say for sure what would have happened; its 
possible the application would still have been declined.
Mr and Mrs Bs broker said he didnt appeal the Birmingham Midshires decline decision at 
the time because he (and Mr and Mrs B) were wworried that more searches would affect 
Halifaxs decision. The broker said 
If you remember the senior underwriter stated that he was prepared to support your 
Halifax application as long as there was no new Lending or adverse appearing on your credit file. 
Too many searches can definitely affect credit scores and with this in mind the protection of 
your main Residential application was my overriding concern.
But the Halifax underwriter didnt say Mr and Mrs Bs credit score must remain the same, 
only that they shouldnt take out any new lending and that no new adverse credit should 
appear on their credit files. Adverse credit markers are missed/late payments made to 
existing credit agreements, not further soft credit searches made for a linked application the 
underwriter was aware of.
It seems unusual that the broker didnt think to query this either with Birmingham Midshires, 
or with the Halifax underwriter that hed already spoken to, at the time in question. He could 
have let Birmingham Midshires know about the successful Halifax appeal, and asked the 
Halifax underwriter if an appeal with Birmingham Midshires would impact the residential 
mortgage application. Had he done so either the application would have been successful, 
and the mortgage would have completed, or a full answer would have been given as to why 
Birmingham Midshires was unwilling to lend.
Instead the broker did nothing until September when he completed another agreement in 
principle. But as Ive explained above, a successful agreement in principle doesnt guarantee 
any application would be successful as it would still be subject to full underwriting, so the fact 
the September agreement in principle was accepted doesnt mean the previous application 
wouldnt have been declined had an appeal been made.
As part of the complaint process a Birmingham Midshires underwriter looked at the 
application again and said they wouldnt look to approve it. Whilst I cant provide a copy of 
their decision as it contains information that is commercially sensitive Ive reviewed it in full 
and Im satisfied that assessment was fairly considered and the outcome wasnt 
unreasonable. 
At the heart of this complaint is a lending decision Birmingham Midshires made. Birmingham 
Midshires was entitled to decide for itself whether or not it was prepared to grant the 
mortgage Mr and Mrs B wanted. There was no obligation on it to lend. Whilst it had given an 
initial indication that it might be prepared to do so, that was all it was  an indication. A 
decision to agree a mortgage was always subject to the lenders assessment of a full 
application. 
I have to decide whether Birmingham Midshires dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs Bs application 
and gave it proper consideration. Its records satisfy me that it did, and that it exercised its 
commercial discretion legitimately. Im also satisfied that it dealt with the application in a 
reasonable timeframe. For that reason I make no award for the loss Mr and Mrs B say 
theyve incurred due to not being able to obtain the interest rate product they applied for with 
Birmingham Midshires.
All that said, I agree with our Investigator that the issue with Mr Bs name would have 
caused confusion and for that I also agree that £200 compensation should be paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and only insofar as I order Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires to pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs B for the confusion caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman