DRN-3988082
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him three packaged 
bank accounts. The first was an Additions account that was taken out in December 1998. 
The second account was an Additions Plus account that was taken out in December 2003  
and the third account was a Premier Life account taken out in July 2011.
These were migrated to a Home, Tech and Travel Plus pack in November 2015. 
Mr H has explained that he took out these accounts in order to get an overdraft, personal 
loan and mortgages.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the accounts had been mis-
sold. Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Additions account 
In relation to the Additions account, the first thing I need to consider is whether Mr H was 
given a fair choice as to whether to take out the account.
I can see that Mr H says that he held a fee-free account prior to taking this account. So, I 
think that he wouldve been aware, in general, that Barclays offered fee-free accounts and 
that they were an option for him. Mr H says that he needed to take out these accounts in 
order to get overdraft, personal loan and mortgages. It is my understanding that he held an 
overdraft and loan prior to this upgrade and I cant see that he applied for additional 
borrowing around the time of the upgrade.
So overall I think that Mr H agreed to the Additions account knowing that he did not have to 
have one. And I think its likely he agreed to it because of the benefits that it came with. I say 
this because the Additions account at the time it was taken out was £5 a month and the main 
benefits at the time  was a fee-free and interest-free £100 overdraft facility. Whereas using 
an overdraft facility on a free account would cost £5 each month it was used. Given this, it 
was likely the case that having the Additions account would have been more cost effective 
for Mr H, than using an overdraft on a fee-free account. From Mr Hs bank statements, I can 
see that he was using his overdraft, so I think that this was why he chose this account.
This account was taken out without a personal recommendation being made, so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the account was right for Mr H. But it was required to give Mr H 
enough information about the account, so he understood what he was agreeing to.
Given the circumstances of this complaint, I do not know what Mr H was told about the 
account. But I think that main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem 
attractive. I accept that Mr H may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, but I have not seen enough to be satisfied that Mr H wouldve been 
put off from agreeing to the upgrade had he been given more information.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold.
Additions Plus 
Turning now to the sale of the Additions Plus account, again I think that Mr H wouldve been 
aware that fee-free accounts were an option for him for the same reasons as the sale of the 
previous account. I think its more likely that he was attracted to the benefits that this account 
came with. 
When Mr H took out this account, the main difference of this account from the Additions 
account was that it came with Travel insurance. It also, at the time, came with breakdown 
cover and an interest free overdraft amongst other things. From what I can see Mr Hs did 
appear to travel before this upgrade. So I think that he probably agreed to this account at the 
time because of the intention to use this additional benefit. And as he was still regularly 
using his overdraft, I think he also was able to continue to benefit from the interest free and 
preferential rate overdraft benefits that the account came with. 
Based on Barclays records, I cant tell if a personal recommendation was made. But overall, 
given his circumstances, this account does seem a reasonable fit for Mr Hs circumstances 
at the time of the sale.
Again, I do not know what Mr H was told about the account. But I think that the main benefits 
wouldve been discussed, and I also think its likely a comparison wouldve been made 
between what the Additions Plus account provided compared to what he already had. 
Afterall Barclays wouldve wanted the account to have seem worth upgrading to and so I 
think it likely that Barclays wouldve pointed out the added benefits that it came with. 
I dont know what Mr H was told about the other benefits that the account came with, but I 
have not seen enough to be satisfied that Mr H wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
upgrade, had he been given more information about the account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions Plus account was 
mis-sold either.
Premier Life 
Finally, in terms of the sale of the Premier Life account for the reasons set out above, I think 
Mr H wouldve been aware that he did not have to have a paid for account and that this 
account was optional. For example, if Mr H was under the impression that he needed a 
packaged account, but didnt actually want one, I wouldve expected him to have stuck with 
the cheapest one available, rather than keep agreeing to increasingly more expensive 
accounts. Overall, from what I have seen, I think its more likely that Mr H took out this 
account due to the additional benefits that it came with. In this instance, the main benefit differences were that the Premier Life account came with a 
larger interest free overdraft of £1,000 and Airport Lounge access. It also, amongst other 
things, had the following main benefits: (these also came with the Additions Plus account) 
Mobile Phone Insurance, enhanced Breakdown cover and enhanced Travel insurance. 
Based on Mr H using his overdraft, I think that this was the main reason that he agreed to 
this upgrade. I also cant see why he could not use the other benefits too. 
The account was recommended to Mr H by Barclays, so it had to ensure it was a reasonable 
fit for Mr Hs circumstances. Given the increase in the interest free overdraft amount on the 
Premier Life account versus the Additions Plus account (£1,000 versus £350) and given the 
Preferential rate of interest on the overdraft facility above this interest free buffer (14.9% 
versus 18.3%) I think it likely that the interest saved could have potentially offset the £9 a 
month additional fee, based on how much Mr H used his overdraft at the time.
Again, I think that the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to Mr H during the sale to 
make the account seem attractive. I accept that Mr H may not have been told everything 
about all of the benefits that the account came with, but I dont think that Mr H wouldve been 
put off from taking the account had he been given more information about the benefits it 
came with.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Premier Life account was mis-
sold either. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr H and I accept that, with hindsight, he may 
now regret agreeing to these accounts. But I am satisfied, based on the available evidence, 
that Mr H agreed to these accounts knowing that he did not have to and that each account 
provided were benefits that he was able to have made use of. I can see that he may not 
have used these benefits as much as he may have thought he would when he initially 
agreed to these accounts, but this does not mean that Barclays should not have sold these 
accounts to him in the first place. So overall I am unable to recommend that Barclays refund 
any of Mr Hs account fees. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman