DRN-3956582
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his car insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure), as he feels the 
total loss settlement it paid him after his car was stolen was too low.
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen. Esure accepted a claim from him and said it would pay him £28,132 
in settlement for his car. Mr C said that wasnt enough to let him replace his car. But Esure 
said it was a fair market value, so Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator noted that Esure had used trade guides to determine the market value for 
Mr Cs car. And that the price Esure had settled on was within the range of values returned 
by two of the three trade guides, with the third being unusually high (an outlier) and so 
discounted. So she felt it had settled Mr Cs claim fairly and reasonably. 
Mr C said there were four relevant guide prices and none should be discounted  presenting 
a statical analysis of the figures to demonstrate that there was no outlier. He said an average 
of all four values would return a settlement figure of £29,625.50.
Our Investigator explained that Mr Cs policy doesnt promise to settle a total loss claim 
based on a mean average of available values. And, in line with our approach, even if all four 
trade guide values were taken into account, the settlement offered by Esure was fair, falling 
as it did within the range of all those figures. 
Mr C said that his policy implies an average will be used. And Esure had initially advised its 
settlement was based on an average. He said this services approach was unfair and 
subjective. Our Investigator said her view hadnt changed. Mr Cs complaint was passed for 
an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has a policy with Esure which says that in the event his car is stolen and declared a 
total loss, Esure wont pay more than the market value for the car. And the policy says 
market value means:
The  amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides[and] may not 
be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
I know Mr C believes this implies Esure will use an average of all the guides to determine a 
market value for his car. But that is not what the policy wording promises Esure will do. In 
any event, on this occasion Esure did look to offer a settlement figure based on the average 
of three of the four market values returned by the trade guides.
The trade guides returned the following values:
£27,580
£27,900
£28,720
£34,302
Esure used the lower three (the correct average being £28,067) to present a settlement 
figure of £28,132 from which it deducted an excess, before paying £27,132 to Mr C. Esure 
has caused some confusion because in its final response to Mr C it said it had discounted 
the lowest of the four values, using the other three to determine its settlement figure (the 
correct average in that case actually being £30,307). Clearly neither of those calculations 
actually results in the settlement Esure paid. But, the mathematical error and mistake in the 
letter aside, I have to decide if Esures settlement of £28,132 is fair and reasonable.
This service has an established approach to considering if an insurer has fairly and 
reasonably determined the market value for a car. Well check the values detailed by the 
trade guides. If any value is out of line with the majority of the figures returned, then well 
discount it. I appreciate Mr Cs statistical analysis, presented to show that the highest of the 
four values above is not, in statistical terms, an outlier from/out of line with the rest. But our 
approach doesnt apply such a formal mathematical test. Rather well look at the range of 
values and if there is a significant jump between the lowest or highest value and the rest of 
the figures, we may discount that figure. Here there are three values all closely grouped 
together. And there is one which is significantly more. Im satisfied that can reasonably be 
considered an outlier and, therefore, be discounted.
However, the second part of our approach means that, on this occasion, the discussion 
about discounting the highest value isnt really material to the outcome. That is because 
once weve established the fair range of reasonably applicable values, well check to see if 
the settlement paid falls within that range. If it does then the settlement will likely be fair and 
reasonable. Here the range is either: £27,580 to £34,302 or, if that highest value is 
discounted, £27,580 to £28,720. And Esure has paid £28,132 which sits satisfactorily within 
both of these ranges. 
Esure does seem to have made an error in the way it calculated its settlement. But it seems 
that error was in Mr Cs favour. And it also included an error in its final response letter, 
advising incorrectly that it had discounted the lowest of the four values from its calculation. 
Nevertheless, the settlement Esure paid did fall within the range of values returned by the 
guides. So, in line with our approach to considering this type of complaint, Im satisfied 
Esures settlement is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman