DRN-3307098
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss K. The car here was 
already about seven years old and had completed quite a high mileage of about 98,300 
miles. So, I think a reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be 
present.
In March 2021, a month after Miss K took receipt of the car, she had the vehicle serviced 
and the garage advised that they thought there was a major oil leak.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault present when 
the car is supplied. I think, given the fact Miss K complained of the fault so soon after shed 
taken receipt of the car, that the oil leak was likely to have been present when the car was 
supplied to her. 
Ive reviewed Close Brothers system notes and can see that the car was repaired by August 
2021. A file note towards the end of that month says that Miss K wasnt sure if the fault was 
still present and as there are no further calls to Close Brothers and no further evidence has 
been provided by Miss K to suggest the problem remains, I think its likely the leak has now 
been fixed. And I think that means Close Brothers have repaired the car in line with their 
legal obligations.
I can see that they also offered to refund a monthly finance instalment to Miss K to reflect the 
lack of use shed had from the car when it was being repaired.
I think Close Brothers actions have been reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think 
they need to do anything else.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman