DRN-2579868
The complaint
 Mr E complains about the standard of service received for breakdown cover from his insurer 
Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and damage caused to his vehicle following a breakdown. 
 
What happened
 Mr Es vehicle broke down in France in July 2019 and he called IPA. The vehicle was 
recovered but IPA was unable to find a local garage that could carry out the necessary 
repairs to the vehicles engine. The vehicle was under warranty in the UK and in discussion 
with Mr E it was agreed that the vehicle should be returned to the UK for the repair to be 
carried out.
  
The vehicle was returned to the UK and delivered to Mr Es home address on 3 September 
2019. Mr E was out when the vehicle was delivered but contacted IPA later that day to 
complain about damage to the underside of the vehicle and the front bumper that he 
maintains was caused in the period between the breakdown and return to the UK. He 
provided pictures as evidence of the damage. IPA asked him to contact a local garage to 
diagnose and quantify the damage and repairs needed to his vehicle. Mr E obtained a report 
from an independent motor engineer that confirmed the damage and its likely cause. Mr E 
also obtained an estimate for the cost of the repairs.
  
IPA rejected his complaint, saying that they did not have sufficient information to confirm 
when the damage was caused, what caused the damage and who caused the damage. Mr E 
was unhappy at this outcome and complained to this service. He asked that IPA pay for the 
repairs to his vehicle, compensate him for the distress and inconvenience due to the delay in 
dealing with his claim, pay for the cost of obtaining the report from the motor engineer. Mr E 
also stated that he was unable to use the garage he rented.
Our investigator concluded that the evidence indicated that the damage was caused by the 
loading or unloading of Mr Es vehicle in a reverse direction, most likely to or from a 
breakdown recovery vehicle, during the period between the recovery of the vehicle and its 
return to the UK. The investigator recommended that IPA should cover the estimated costs 
of repair to the vehicle (£1214). The investigator also recommended that IPA should 
reimburse Mr E for the cost of the independent report and to pay £50 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience to Mr E.
 
IPA disagreed with the investigators recommendations and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They felt that the vehicle could have been damaged but that this was 
unlikely having reviewed the situation. They also referred to a signed waiver that meant Mr E 
would have had the opportunity to review and confirm he was happy with the condition of the 
vehicle. IPA did offer to pay for 50% of the cost of repairs, as they did not consider that there 
was significant proof that the damage was caused in the period between the breakdown and 
return of the vehicle to the UK.
As my findings included an aspect of Mr Es complaint not covered in the investigators view, 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below.
While we are not motor engineers, we consider the evidence provided by the parties to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, what is most likely to have happened. Having 
reviewed the independent motor engineers report, it does indicate that the damage to the 
underside and front bumper is evidence of the vehicle grounding on an obstruction 
consistent with being loaded or unloaded in reverse direction, such as from a recovery 
vehicle or ramp.
 
I do not find the view of IPA to be convincing, and they have provided no evidence of their 
own to rebut the conclusions of the motor engineers report beyond the assertion that the 
damage was unlikely having reviewed the likelihood of the situation.
With respect to the point about a signed waiver, this has not been provided, and the 
evidence indicates that Mr E raised the issue of the damage on the day that the vehicle was 
returned to him, together with photographs supporting his view. IPA has not rebutted the 
evidence provided by the photographs.
Taken together, in my view this supports the conclusion that the damage was caused in the 
period between the breakdown of the vehicle and its return to the UK, while it was under the 
care of IPA.
With respect to the other aspects of Mr Es complaint, I agree with the investigator that he 
should be reimbursed for the cost of the motor engineers report, as it provides relevant 
evidence in considering the complaint and reaching a conclusion. I also agree that the length 
of time taken by IPA and his having to obtain the motor engineers report should be 
compensated. I agree with the investigators recommendation on the amount of 
compensation. On the question of the costs of renting a garage, I have concluded that Mr E 
would have had to incur this cost in any event, and therefore I do not consider that this 
should be reimbursed by IPA.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I partially uphold Mr Es 
complaint. I understand that Mr E has now sold the vehicle.
As Mr E no longer has the vehicle, I intend to require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Either pay the full costs of repairs to Mr Es vehicle (if he repaired it before selling it) or 
compensate him for the reduction in value that he is likely to have suffered (if the vehicle 
was not repaired before it was sold). This would be the cost of the repairs had they been 
carried out. 
Pay for the costs of Mr E obtaining the Motor Engineers report.
Pay £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he has suffered.
I do not intend to require Inter Partner Assistance SA to make any other payment.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.  IPA have made no further submissions. Mr E responded with further comments 
which I have considered in detail in my final decision. In summary, Mr E stated that because 
of the time taken for his vehicle to be recovered from France he was forced to buy 
replacement transport, and that he was unable to use his garage for his new car for four 
months as his original, damaged vehicle had been left by IPA on the driveway in front of the 
garage. He said that he was financially unable and unwilling to repair his damaged vehicle 
unless IPA agreed to pay for the repairs. He adds that the length of time since the incident led him to sell the vehicle in a damaged state, for a sum he estimates to be between £1000 
to £1500 less than the sale value of the vehicle had it been in good condition. He has 
requested that IPA pay him the original damage repair estimate costs supplied to IPA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr E raised a number of points in his response to my provisional decision. I have dealt with 
the points that I feel need further comment below.
Mr E has sold his original vehicle in a damaged condition and, as a consequence, has 
suffered financial loss that he estimates to be between £1,000 and £1,500. He has asked 
that IPA pay him the original estimated cost of the repairs to his vehicle (£1,214). As this 
value falls within the range of his estimated financial loss, I think its fair that he should be 
paid this amount by IPA.
 
With respect to the point about being unable to use his rented garage, I appreciate the point 
that he makes. But while there is some loss of utility from being unable to use it, I did 
consider this in my provisional decision and concluded that as Mr E would still have had to 
pay the rental cost in any event and therefore I didnt consider that IPA should reimburse this 
cost. As he hasnt suffered a financial loss, I havent changed my mind about this.
In summary, Mr Es response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 I partially uphold Mr Es complaint.
  
As Mr E no longer has the vehicle, I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Pay £1,214 to compensate him for the reduction in value that he suffered on selling the 
vehicle without the repairs being carried out (this is the cost of the repairs had they been 
carried out). 
Pay for the costs of Mr E obtaining the Motor Engineers report.
Pay £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he has suffered.
I do not intend to require Inter Partner Assistance SA to make any other payment.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the costs and compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman