DRN-1694121
The complaint
Mr R is complaining about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim under his home 
emergency policy. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr R reported a blocked drain in his kitchen sink to Aviva. The next day Aviva 
sent a contractor to Mr Rs property. They attempted to clear the blockage but failed. In the 
process of doing so, they caused damage to Mr Rs carpets and flooded the void under the 
house with grey water. Over the next six weeks, Aviva sent three further contractors to 
Mr Rs property to try to fix the problem. 
Between them, the contractors took up the oak flooring in Mr Rs extension and removed 
some bricks from one of the external walls. In addition, one of Mr Rs kitchen units was 
damaged when he and his wife were moving furniture so that the floor could be lifted.
In early June the underlying problem hadnt been resolved and the house was in disarray. 
Aviva told Mr R that hed reached the limit of his home emergency cover and they couldnt 
do any more without contributions from him. Mr R arranged for his own plumber to look at 
the issue. Mr Rs plumber fixed the problem in three hours and at a cost of £276.
Mr R is unhappy with the way Aviva and their contractors handled his complaint. He says 
they caused unnecessary damage to his house and is unhappy they didnt fix the problem. 
He says he and his wife have suffered a lot because of the way Avivas contractors behaved. 
Aviva acknowledged that things hadnt gone well. And they paid Mr R some compensation. 
Theyve paid him around £1,500 to cover the cost of replacing his damaged carpet. And 
theyve paid another £1,500 to cover the cost of the plumber who fixed the problem, the cost 
of repairing damage to his wall, and compensation for the upset caused to Mr R and his wife.
Mr R has accepted the payments, but he says Aviva should also replace his oak flooring. 
And he says they should replace one of his kitchen units. And he doesnt think the amount of 
compensation is enough for what he and his wife have been through. He says they were 
forced to live almost entirely in one room upstairs and that the house was damp and made 
them ill. They couldnt have visitors and had to spend large periods of time away from the 
house. And he said they had extra electricity costs because of the machines they needed to 
run to dry out the void under the house.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint he partially upheld it. He said he thought 
Aviva should pay for the flooring in the extension to be replaced as it was taken up 
unnecessarily. And he said Aviva should pay for the additional electricity costs Mr R 
incurred. But he said that Aviva couldnt be held responsible for the damage to the kitchen 
unit as it was caused by Mr R and his wife when they were moving furniture. And he thought 
Aviva had done enough to compensation Mr R for the upset caused.
Mr R accepted our investigators view but Aviva didnt. They said the floor needed to be 
taken up in order to fix the problem and so Mr R would have had to pay for this regardless. 
They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator and decided to partially uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint, the outstanding points of complaint were 
that Aviva:
hadnt replaced the floor in the extension;
hadnt replaced the damaged kitchen unit;
hadnt paid for the electricity required to run the machines used; and
hadnt fairly compensated him for the amount of upset their failings had caused.
Ill look at these in turn below.
The extension floor
This aspect of the complaint turns on whether it was necessary to take up the floor in the 
extension in order to fix the blocked pipe.
Avivas position is that Mr Rs plumber used the access created in the extension to resolve 
the problem and therefore it must have been necessary. Mr R disagrees and says there 
were no issues at all under the extension floor.
I can see that Mr Rs plumber wrote in the report attached to his invoice: We then cut the 
waste pipe in the foundation and jetted it, the jet cleared the blockage in the pipe. 
Mr Rs plumber later submitted another statement which differed from this  it said: we cut 
the kitchen sink waste pipe above floor level and jetted it, the jet cleared the blockage in the 
pipe.
Its not ideal having two conflicting reports from the same plumber about the work that 
happened. Aviva have disregarded the second report on the basis that it directly contradicts 
the first one. Even if I were to disregard the second report, I cant conclude that it was 
necessary to take up the floor. Ive thought about the following when saying this:
In their original report, Mr Rs plumber didnt specify in which foundation they cut the 
waste pipe. 
From the pictures and reports Ive seen, Im dont think the waste pipe was even 
accessible through the hole in the floor created by Avivas contractors. I can see that the 
drain from the sink is buried in the wall dividing the kitchen and extension. But from 
there, it seems to go down between the two foundation walls and then into the void 
underneath the kitchen. The fourth contractors report states: Lifted flooring in extension 
area and found no water in this section of the foundations. Seen that waste pipe goes in 
between the 2 foundation walls. Went into void under original area and found leaking 
waste pipe.The void under the original area was easily accessible through the hatch in the 
bathroom so Im satisfied the blocked waste pipe could have been fixed using this 
access.
Both of Mr Rs plumbers statements say they jetted the waste pipe and this is what 
cleared the blockage. My understanding of this procedure is that it wouldnt make a 
significant difference to the success of the procedure whether it was done above or 
below floor level.
Taking all this together, Im satisfied that Avivas contractors should have been able to 
resolve the blocked pipe without lifting the floor in the extension. When they did lift it, it was 
to try to identify a leak which had been caused by the first set of contractors. And once they 
had lifted it they realised that the leak was visible in the foundations accessed from the hatch 
in the bathroom. So Im satisfied the damage was unnecessary and Aviva need to pay for 
Mr Rs floor to be replaced. 
The kitchen unit
The kitchen unit was damaged when Mr R and his wife were moving furniture out of the 
extension. It seems to have been an unfortunate accident. I appreciate theyd been asked by 
Avivas contractors to clear the room and that they wouldnt have been moving the furniture if 
that hadnt been the case. But Aviva didnt cause the damage themselves  it was Mr R and 
his wife. If theyd felt that the furniture was too difficult to move they could have spoken to 
Aviva and agreed an alternative solution. So Im not holding Aviva responsible for the 
damage to the kitchen unit and wont be asking them to pay for its replacement. 
The additional electricity
I can see that some large fans were run for around a week in the void under the house. 
While Mr R said this was to dry the area out and Aviva said it was to sanitise the area, they 
would not have had to be there if it wasnt for the problems caused by Avivas contractors. 
So, I think its fair for Aviva to compensate Mr R for the extra electricity used.
The upset caused by Avivas failings
Mr R and his wife suffered for several months as a result of Avivas failings. I can see they 
were living in a state of disarray, with all their furniture piled up in one room on the ground 
floor, and theyve said they were effectively confined to their bedroom and the kitchen. They 
also said they sent some items to family members for storage to protect them from damp. 
On top of that, they had to endure the smell and damp from the damaged carpet and the 
grey water flood for several months. Theyve said the issues exacerbated their physical 
health conditions, and that they caused a significant reduction in their quality of life.
Avivas settlement included around £725 compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
theyd caused. I appreciate what Mr R and his wife have been through but Im satisfied this 
fairly takes into account the impact Avivas failings have had on Mr R. So I wont be asking 
Aviva to increase this figure.
Putting things right
As Ive set out above, I agree with our investigator that Aviva need to pay for the 
replacement of Mr Rs oak floor in his extension. And that they need to pay for the additional 
electricity usage. 
Mr Rs sent a quotation for the like-for-like replacement of his floor which shows that it would 
have cost £2,063.40. Hes told us that he chose to replace the floor with a different, higher quality floor, and provided a receipt showing that he paid for his new flooring on 
23 June 2019 though he says it wasnt installed until September. So, Aviva need to pay Mr R 
£2,063.40 for the replacement of his floor, together with simple interest at 8% from 
23 June 2019 to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited need 
to pay Mr R £2,063.40 for his flooring plus 8% simple interest calculated from 23 June 2019 
to the date of settlement. And they need to pay him for his additional electricity costs. 
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr R how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman