DRN-4446299
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Avalon (Europe) Limited mis-sold her a funeral plan. Shes also 
unhappy Avalon has said it will charge her fees to cancel her plan.
What happened
In brief, in 2013 Mrs F bought a pre-paid funeral plan. At the time, Mrs F had homes in the 
UK and abroad. The plan allowed for goods and services to be provided from either location. 
Mrs F paid a deposit for her plan, with the remainder being paid in instalments over 18 
months. 
Earlier this year, Mrs F - now permanently living in the UK - visited her nominated funeral 
director to confirm the details of her requirements. She was shocked to discover her plan 
didnt include provision for a church service. Mrs F says this wasnt made clear to her when 
she purchased. 
Mrs F contacted and subsequently complained to Avalon (Europe). Avalon didnt uphold her 
complaint, saying that none of its plans include a church service as standard and that a 
church service couldnt ever have been added to the plan specification for Mrs Fs residence 
abroad. It also said the terms were sent to her at the time of sale. Avalon explained that Mrs 
F could make an additional contribution towards a church service in the UK at the time of 
need. Avalon also told Mrs F she could cancel her plan, but, in line with the plan terms, 
would be charged a set-up fee and cancellation fee. It agreed to discount those fees to 
match its current plans. 
Mrs F remained unhappy so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
said that we didnt have jurisdiction to consider her complaint, as the events complained of 
happened before the funeral plans industry became subject to compulsory regulation by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in July 2022. We could only look at complaints about pre-
regulation events where the business was a member firm of the previous voluntary 
regulation scheme  the Funeral Planning Authority. Avalon (Europe) wasnt, so this meant 
we couldnt investigate Mrs Fs complaint. Mrs F challenged our investigators view, 
particularly around the proposed cancellation fees, so her complaint came to me for a 
decision.
In October 2023, I issued a provisional decision. The gist of that decision is quoted below. 
Having considered all the evidence, I said: 
I think we can look at part of Mrs Fs complaint  the part relating to proposed 
cancellation fees. But I dont think Avalon (Europe)s intentions in this respect are unfair. 
Ill explain my reasoning and provisional thoughts on the matter. 
Jurisdiction 
Our investigator is correct when he says that we cannot consider complaints against 
Avalon (Europe) about events that occurred before 29 July 2022. This is because our 
compulsory jurisdiction only allows us to consider such complaints where the business 
was a member of the predecessor scheme  the Funeral Planning Authority. So as 
Avalon (Europe) wasnt, I cant look at anything to do with the sale of Mrs Fs plan, such 
as what she was told at the time or whether the terms were made clear to her. 
But not all of Mrs Fs complaint points relate to events before 29 July 2022. Mrs F is 
unhappy about Avalons stated fees for cancelling her plan. She thinks the fees are 
unfair. This complaint point is an administrative matter, raised after Avalon (Europe) 
became subject to compulsory regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority. It relates to 
a current issue. Avalon dealt with the issue in its complaint response letter to Mrs F and 
affirmed its position in its final response. This matter is within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and therefore, something I can consider. 
Cancellation fees 
So given that, Ive gone on to think about whether Avalon (Europe)s proposed 
cancellation charges are reasonable. 
Mrs Fs application/order form has a section headed payment details. It details the price 
of the plan - £2916.67 - and an administration fee. The cost of the administration fee 
varies, depending on the payment option chosen. For Mrs Fs payment by instalments, 
the administration fee is recorded as £160. So the total price payable is recorded as 
£3076.67. Ive not seen any fee specifically referred to as a set-up fee, but I accept that 
there wouldve been initial set-up costs as well as ongoing administration costs. So on 
balance, I think the administration fee referred to on the application form includes set-up 
fees.
Avalon (Europe) says that if Mrs F were to cancel her plan it would be entitled to retain 
£420 from funds paid - £120 set-up fee an £300 cancellation fee. But its also said it 
would reduce that charge to £395, as a gesture of goodwill and to align it with current 
cancellation charges. Ive looked at the terms and conditions provided. Avalon (Europe)s 
fees are set out in section 15.
i) We are remunerated for conducting our duties as described in term 5. Our fees are 
described below and are payable in addition to the Funeral Plan, as specified on the 
Order Form: 
ii) a set up fee of £120; 
iv) for Instalment Plans ongoing administrative charges are levied at a rate of 8% of 
all instalment payments made; and 
v) in the case of refunds following cancellation we will charge an administration fee of 
£300. 
Section 18 covers cancellation rights. It says: 
i) You may cancel your Funeral Plan at any time by writing to our Head Office and 
returning the documents provided within the 14 day cooling off period following our 
receipt of your Order Form. All payments made by you will be refunded without 
obligation.
ii) Cancellation outside the 14 day cooling off period is permitted, but we will deduct 
our fees, as specified in term 15. 
Section 18 (ii) is the pertinent section in Mrs Fs case, as any cancellation would be 
outside the cooling off period. I note that the term refers to fees plural. So I think these 
terms would entitle Avalon (Europe) to retain £120 set-up fee from Mrs Fs refund and also to charge her the additional £300 cancellation fee. In other words, from the total 
£3076.67 she paid, Avalon could retain £420. 
However, I note Avalon (Europe) has said it would reduce that retention to £395, in line 
with its current cancellation policy. I appreciate this is not the news Mrs F was hoping for 
and I do understand her frustration about the situation. But I dont think Avalon (Europe) 
would be treating her unreasonably if, upon cancellation, it were to retain £395 fees from 
her refund. 
I told both parties I would consider any new evidence or comments received by 9 November 
2023, after which I would issue my final decision.
Avalon (Europe) said it had nothing to add. No further information has been received from 
Mrs F. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. No new submissions have been received, 
so I see no reason to deviate from my provisional decision. 
 
For the reasons previously given, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about proposed 
cancellation fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman