DRN-1429122
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society. She says she had to have the policy in order 
to be approved for the mortgage.
What happened
Mrs L took out a mortgage in August 2005 but didnt take out a PPI policy. Two years later 
she purchased PPI. The policy cost £5.89 and it covered Mrs L in the event she wasnt 
working because of accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim, 
it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £100 for up to 12 months. The policy was cancelled in 
2009 when Mrs L wrote to Nationwide asking it to cancel her policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mrs L disagrees, so her 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Ls 
case. Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the policy were taken out and redeemed many years ago, so its 
unsurprising that neither party has been able to provide detailed information about the sale 
and the discussion that took place. And in these situations, I have to look at what I think is 
more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mrs L has given her honest recollections of the sale but I just dont have 
any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mrs L didnt have a 
choice in taking it out. The mortgage application indicated that taking a policy was optional 
and from what I know about Nationwide sales at this time I cant fairly say that Mrs L didnt 
have a choice about taking it.
Furthermore, the policy was being taken out some two years after the mortgage was first 
granted, so Im satisfied that Mrs L wouldve known that the policy wasnt a condition of the 
mortgage  she didnt need to take it in order to be approved for the mortgage.
I havent seen anything to make me think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs L, so I 
dont think it had to check if the policy was suitable. But even if Mrs L thought she was being 
advised to take out the policy at the time, I dont think this would make a difference to the 
outcome. I say this because I dont think the policy was unsuitable, based on what I know of 
her circumstances at the time.
I say this because: 
Although there were some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt look like Mrs L 
wouldve been affected by any of those things  she says she was in good health, 
and she was employed. So I think she couldve made a successful claim on the 
policy if shed needed to do so.
 
Mrs L told us she wouldve received limited occupational sick pay from her employer 
 just statutory sick pay. But this policy wouldve paid out in addition to and for longer 
than any sick pay she received. And she told us she had no other means with which 
to pay her mortgage at what wouldve been a difficult time. Given that her home was 
at risk if she couldnt keep up with mortgage payments and the fact that she was 
solely responsible for them, then, on balance, I think this policy would have offered 
her reassurance if she fell into financial difficulty. And I think the PPI wouldve been a 
useful benefit and given her peace of mind that her mortgage would be paid if she 
couldnt work.
 
I think the cost of the policy seemed fair value. And I think it is reasonable that Mrs L 
wanted the PPI for the extra protection and reassurance it gave. And it was a regular 
premium policy  so if she decided she no longer wanted it, or could no longer afford 
it, then she could cancel it at any point without penalty.
 
So overall, I think she chose the policy. I cant say that she wouldve decided not to buy the 
cover had she received more, or better, information about the policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint so it follows that Nationwide Building Society dont have 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman