DRN-1619239
The complaint
Mrs E says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs E bought the policy in 2002 at the same as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know Mrs E will find this disappointing, so Ill 
explain why.
Canada Square has shown us internal records which show the credit card was applied for 
using an internet application, and the PPI was added at the same time.
Canada Square had to make it clear to Mrs E that PPI was optional and that she had a fair 
choice about whether to take it out. The policy was taken out as part of Mrs Es credit card 
application. Ive seen examples of the screens she most likely wouldve completed at the 
time, one of which included a PPI section. The PPI section includes equally prominent yes 
and no options for PPI. The online application could not have been progressed to the next 
stage unless Mrs E had checked one of the boxes. I think its unlikely PPI wouldve been 
added to Mrs Es account unless she ticked the yes box.
Ive also seen some of the monthly credit card statements Mrs E wouldve received. And I 
can see that the PPI premiums appear as purchases. For example, on Mrs Es first 
statement dated 21 April 2002 the PPI premium is described as Credit Card Repayment 
Protector.  So I think its likely Mrs E wouldve noticed the additional product she was paying 
for. And if it wasnt something Mrs E wanted, or chose to apply for, Id expect her to have 
questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did.
Taking everything into account, I think Canada Square made it clear that Mrs E didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this after so many years.
The application was made online. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs E spoke to anyone from 
Canada Square during the application. So I think it is very unlikely that Canada Square gave 
Mrs E personal advice to take out the policy. So Canada Square didnt have to check that 
the policy was suitable for her. However, it still had to give Mrs E clear information about the 
policy so she could decide about whether it was right for her.Its possible the information Canada Square provided couldve been clearer but I dont think 
clearer information wouldve led to Mrs E making a different decision. I say this because:
Mrs E was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations, for example, any that related to pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Mrs E has told us that if she became too unwell to work she would be paid some sick pay. 
But the policy wouldve paid 10% of Mrs Es monthly balance for up to 12 months if she 
became unemployed or too ill to work. And I think thats likely to have been longer than Mrs 
Es full sick pay would last. So I think Mrs E would find it useful if she couldnt work. 
Particularly if she were unwell for a lengthy period. It would also mean Mrs E didnt have to 
use her savings or rely on family to help her pay the monthly repayments.
I am aware Mrs E has had another complaint about PPI upheld. But there are different types 
of PPI with different terms and conditions which were sold in different ways. Ive looked at 
the particular circumstances of this sale and Ive not seen anything to make me think it was 
mis-sold.
In summary, its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if she couldnt work or lost 
her job. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs E off taking out the cover. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint and make no award against 
Canada Square Operations Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman