DRN-2836324
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Cofunds Limited  trading as Aegon handled some 
investments that made up part of his mothers estate. Mr W is the executor for the estate. 
Mr Ws complaint has developed as weve been investigating it. But the crux is that hes 
unhappy the estate received less than expected when the investments were surrendered. 
What happened
Cofunds sent some letters to Mr W in December 2019, explaining what his mothers 
investments were worth at that point. Cofunds said the amounts werent guaranteed, and 
theyd need to see a grant of probate before they could take instructions about what to do 
with the investments. 
Mr W got a grant of probate in February 2020, and sent it to Cofunds in March. He also sent 
them a letter that said he wanted the investments to be surrendered. Cofunds did that, and 
paid the proceeds to the estate account Mr W had told them to use. 
Mr W complained shortly after, as the value he received in March 2020 was about £20,000 
less than he was told the investments held in December 2019. He felt Cofunds had been 
wrong to leave the investments live while there was no grant of probate. And he felt Cofunds 
had given him no explanation for the fall in value, noting hed not received any statements or 
been told why a monthly income his mother had been receiving had stopped. 
Cofunds responded to the complaint and explained the loss in value was due to a fall in the 
markets  driven by the global coronavirus pandemic in 2020. They also explained that it 
was their policy to leave funds invested when told about an investors death, hold any 
income in the investment itself, and to stop sending statements until a point of contact was 
confirmed for the estate.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator saw the 
correspondence between Mr W and Cofunds. He also looked at the terms and conditions of 
the investment. And he checked the details of what had been paid to the estate, and how 
long that had taken. Doing this, he found Cofunds had acted reasonably in this case. 
Mr W didnt accept that view. He felt poor communication about the value of the investments 
and the options for holding on to them meant hed surrendered them when hed otherwise 
have held on to them.  
We gave Cofunds eight weeks to respond some new points Mr W had raised. I waited before 
making any decision, in case Cofunds response to the new points resolved the overarching 
issue. But Mr Ws said he received no further response from Cofunds. So the complaint still 
needs a formal decision, which Im going to make and explain here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate the unwelcome 
surprise for Mr W at the fall in the investments values. But Ill explain why I find that wasnt 
caused by anything unfair or unreasonable in Cofunds handling of them. 
My starting point for considering what a reasonable level of service was is to look at the 
terms and conditions for Cofunds service. These explain what Cofunds had agreed to do 
when handling the investments. Generally, a business should do what they said theyd do, if 
theyre going to provide a reasonable level of service. 
Here, the terms said that on an investors death Cofunds would continue to hold investments 
as they were, until theyd received formal documents appointing a representative for the 
investors estate. Thats what Cofunds did in this case. So I find theyve acted in line with 
how they said they would when they first offered their service. 
Its reasonable for Cofunds to have that sort of policy. When Mr Ws mother died, her 
investments became part of her estate. What to do with that estate is a matter for its 
executors  here, Mr W  to decide. If Cofunds made their own decisions about changing the 
investments, or took instructions from Mr W before his position was confirmed, they could 
have been responsible for any losses the investment suffered. Its for them as a business to 
consider that risk, and decide how to manage it. 
To be fair to their customers, Id also expect Cofunds to consider whether there were 
exceptional circumstances that justified doing something other than their terms said they 
would do. But I cant see theyve been made aware of anything that would lead to that here. 
The estate hasnt highlighted any problems getting probate, or anything like that. The 
circumstances seem in line with what the terms and conditions would have anticipated, when 
they were written. 
The reasonable requirement for there to be an authorised representative for the estate 
seems to be what set the timescale for the investments being surrendered. Its that timescale 
that unfortunately led to the fall in their values. As Cofunds explained, March 2020 saw a 
sudden fall in many markets that couldnt really have been foreseen. 
Cofunds appear to have acted on Mr Ws instruction to sell the investments during that time. 
That again reflects what their terms said theyd do. Hed at that point shown them he had 
authority to instruct them. I find it was enough for them to handle his instruction in their usual 
timescales, even though thats ultimately meant the investments surrender values were 
lower than theyd been previously. 
Our investigator also noted some other points Mr W raised, around Cofunds communication 
with the estate. They didnt send statements for the investments, reflecting that until March 
2020 there wasnt a confirmed point of contact for the estate. I can see that sort of policy 
meant the investments details were only shared with people Cofunds could be sure had 
authority to see them. As such, I find it was a reasonable policy for them to adopt, even 
though its meant Mr W didnt realise the value of the investments had dropped in 2020. 
There was also comment about Cofunds stopping a monthly income going to the account for 
Mr Ws mother. This again was in the terms and conditions Ive seen. And it was again a 
reasonable policy for Cofunds to have. After Mr Ws mother died, any income from the 
investments belonged to the estate. Leaving the money in the cash holding part of the 
investments ensured it would go to the estate, once a suitable representative had identified 
themselves to Cofunds. As a final point, I see Mr W has said he feels more should have been done to direct him to 
the full terms and conditions of the investment in December 2019, so he could have had a 
better expectation about the service Cofunds would provide. But I find their letters did 
enough to explain the key points that applied to him, at that point. Specifically, Cofunds 
explained that theyd need to see the grant of probate before they took any instructions. That 
links to what the terms and conditions said about needing a representative to be confirmed 
for the estate before Cofunds would accept any instructions. 
Had Mr W asked for further details about the terms and conditions  or for a breakdown of 
the value of the investments prior to surrendering them  then there would be an argument 
that Cofunds could have done more. But I cant see Mr W gave Cofunds any indication that 
he didnt understand what theyd said, or what theyd need from him. So I find it reasonable 
Cofunds didnt go into more detail with Mr W about the investments in December 2019. 
In March 2020, when Mr W instructed Cofunds to surrender the investments and pass the 
money to the estate, there was again no indication to Cofunds that he hadnt understood the 
options available to the estate. So there too, I cant see they needed to do more to question 
his instruction, or advise him about the options available to the estate. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman