DRN-4260683
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has rejected a 
claim for the treatment of his pet dog on the ground that her treatment was for a pre-existing 
condition.
What happened
Mr S acquired his pet dog, who Ill refer to as D, from a rescue charity on 26 December 
2021. D was insured with RSA with effect from 31 December 2021.She was registered with 
her vet on 22 January 2022.
On 24 February 2022, D was taken to the vet for a check-up. Ds medical notes on that visit 
noted that she had cherry eye + conjunctival erythema and swelling in left eye. The notes 
also said cherry eye first stared at Christmas time, then 2 weeks ago and today again, each 
time lasted a few hours, seems a bit irritated with it today. 
D underwent an operation to treat this on 1 April 2022. Mr S claimed the cost of this from 
RSA. The claim form states that, based on the vets records, clinical signs of cherry eye 
were first noticed in December 2021.
RSA reviewed Ds medical records. Based on these, it rejected Mr Ss claim on the ground 
that Ds records said that cherry eye had been noticed around Christmas 2021, so before 
policy inception, and Mr Ss policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions or any 
changes noticed in a pets health within 14 days of the cover start date. As Mr Ss policy 
started on 31 December 2021, it wouldnt cover any illness that showed signs or symptoms 
before 13 January 2022. 
Mr S disputed the accuracy of the vets note from 24 February 2022. He says that the note in 
fact related to Ds brother who had had cherry eye around Christmas 2021 but who had 
sadly passed away under general anaesthetic whilst undergoing treatment for this.  RSA 
queried this note with Ds vet, but they couldnt recall a discussion regarding Ds brother. The 
vet that treated D on 24 February 2022 noted on 9 June 2022 as follows:
'With regards to the recent claim, client believes that my notes on the 24/02/22 are 
inaccurate and in fact the Christmas reference was about [Ds] sibling, not her. 
However, I cannot recall a discussion regarding a sibling and my only method of 
reviewing is to look at my clinical notes.
In Ds notes the first reference to Ds brother occurs on 21 March 2022 when, with reference 
to the procedure that D was going to undergo, the note, made by a different vet, says O 
very concerned as brother passed away on operating table for same procedure.
Mr S provided RSA with a letter from Ds vet which stated that there was no clinical evidence 
that Ds cherry eye began at Christmas as she wasnt presented to the vet until February 
2022. The vet has confirmed that when she undertook Ds repair procedure, [her] prolapsed 
gland was not massively inflamed or traumatised and so was unlikely to have been 
prolapsed for many weeks or for multiple times.
Mr S also provided RSA with a letter from the rescue charity who had had D in their care 
until 26 December 2021. In this the charity confirmed that D had shown no sign of cherry eye 
prior to her being acquired by Mr S on that date.
In response to this, RSA has said that Ds cherry eye could have still occurred between 26 
December 2021 and the policy start date of 31 December 2021.
RSA maintains that what the clinical notes say is determinative as it is a legal document.
As Mr S was dissatisfied with RSAs rejection of his claim, he complained to this service. Our 
investigators view was that the recent evidence from Ds vet about the length of time over 
which Ds gland was likely to have been prolapsed was persuasive. She recommended that 
RSA settle Mr Ss claim and pay him £100 compensation. 
RSA doesnt agree with our investigators view. It argues that the clinical notes from 24 
February 2022 make no reference to a sibling dog having been mentioned and that the 
sentence cherry eye first stared at Christmas time, then 2 weeks ago and today again isnt 
plausible if Mr S was talking about Ds sibling and also about D.
As RSA doesnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been referred to me as an 
ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Veterinary records are important in establishing what a vet noticed or was told, or what they 
did on any particular occasion. They are generally contemporaneous and so unaffected by 
loss of memory. But they are susceptible to human error, and if there is other information 
that might suggest that this is the case, that information should not be dismissed out of hand. 
I have to consider what is more likely than not to have taken place on the balance of 
probabilities.
On the one hand there is the evidence of the note in Ds records. I accept what RSA says 
about the statement cherry eye first stared at Christmas time, then 2 weeks ago and today 
again  making little sense if it is intended to refer to both D and her sibling.  But it could 
simply have been a mistake by the vet in recording a conversation they understandably 
couldnt recall having had some months later. The vet doesnt comment on whether the note 
is accurate or not. Given Mr Ss upset after the death of Ds sibling, I think it quite likely that 
he wouldve mentioned this to the vet when D was found to have the same medical issue. 
He is recorded as having mentioned it to the different vet who examined D on 21 March 
2022. 
On the other hand, there is the evidence from the rescue charity that D showed no sign of 
cherry eye before 26 December 2021 when D was acquired by Mr S. That narrows down 
Christmas time to a short period after Christmas day.
There is also the professional opinion from the vet who undertook Ds repair procedure on 1 
April 2022 that it was unlikely that Ds gland had been prolapsed for a number of weeks. I 
consider this to be persuasive as it is the professional opinion of Ds treating vet. It wouldve 
been over 3 months between Christmas 2021 and the date of Ds procedure on 1 April 2022. The fact that Ds vet visit on 24 February was a check-up appointment at which other health 
issues were raised also suggests that Ds eye hadnt been causing particular concern over a 
significant period of time.
 
I also consider that as Mr S had had the sad experience of losing Ds sibling around 
Christmas 2021 during a procedure to treat his cherry eye it is likely he wouldve been 
concerned for Ds health. If hed noticed this same condition in D around Christmas 2021, I 
consider it unlikely that hed  have delayed until 24 February to raise it with the vet, or in fact 
to register D with a vet, which he didnt do until 22 January 2022. I think this suggests a lack 
of any concern on his part until February 2022. 
My conclusion therefore is that I consider that the balance of probability lies in favour of Ds 
cherry eye not being a pre-existing condition and that RSA has unreasonably declined Mr 
Ss claim on this ground.
I also agree with our investigator that compensation of £100 is reasonable in the 
circumstances for Mr Ss upset in having his claim rejected. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited:
1. to settle Mr Ss claim subject to any other terms and conditions of his policy.
2. to pay Mr S interest on any sum paid to him at the simple rate of 8% from the date of 
his claim until payment is made to him.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3. to pay Mr S compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman