DRN-3907320
The complaint
Mr C2 complains that National Westminster Bank (NatWest) didnt do enough to protect his 
father (Mr C1) and prevent him losing a significant amount of money to scammers. 
Mr C2 brings this complaint in his capacity as the executor of his late-fathers estate.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat
them in detail. But, in summary:
Mr C2 says his father was repeatedly scammed between 2008 and 2019, losing more 
than £425,000. A Lasting Power of Attorney was registered with the Office of the Public 
Guardian in early-April 2019, his father was admitted to a nursing home in July 2019 and 
a diagnosis of dementia was made around that time. Mr C2 suspects his fathers 
cognition started to deteriorate soon after Mr C1s wife died in 2007, and Mr C2 has 
provided reports from medical professionals to support this belief. He thinks NatWest 
failed in its duty of care to protect his father and should refund the money hes identified 
as having been lost to scammers.
NatWest said it took sufficient steps to protect Mr C1 and disputed Mr C2s assertion that 
his father didnt have capacity to make decisions for himself. It had already refunded 
some disputed transactions over the years and refused to refund any more.
Our investigator thought it was too late to complain about the disputed transactions that 
occurred between October 2008 and December 2009. Also that, while there may have 
been times when the bank could have done more to protect Mr C1, ultimately he would 
still have found a way to make payments to the fraudsters. So he didnt recommend that 
any additional disputed transactions should be refunded. Mr C2 disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr C2s strength of feeling and have sympathy for the 
situation his father found himself in, I agree with the investigator that I cant fairly instruct 
NatWest to refund any of the remaining disputed transactions. Ive taken the following into 
account when reaching this conclusion:
I agree with the investigator that, in accordance with the rules under which we operate, 
its too late for Mr C2 to complain about the disputed transactions that occurred from 
2008 to 2009. Our rules say complaints must be raised within six years of the event or, if 
later, within three years of the date the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably 
to have become aware, he had cause for complaint. That is, unless the business 
consented to us considering the complaint (which NatWest hasnt). Mr C2 asked 
NatWest to look into these matters in early-2020, by which time more than six years had 
passed since the events took place. And Mr C1 had raised complaints about other fraud-
related matters in 2016, suggesting he was aware then (if not sooner) about scams, the 
banks responsibilities in relation to such matters and the fact he could pursue 
complaints. Given that Mr C1 was aware of fraud related issues in 2016 if not sooner, he 
(or his representative) would have needed to have raised a complaint about the 2008 
and 2009 transactions by 2019 at the latest. 
Mr C2 has shared various police reports, emails exchanged between his father and two 
work colleagues from late-2009 relating to possible scams and various pieces of 
correspondence his father exchanged with the scammers between 2015 and 2018. I 
understand this is just a small selection of what Mr C2 has been able to retrieve from his 
fathers records. Ive also seen notes the bank has made over the years and heard a 
couple of calls from December 2018 when Mr C1 was reporting incidents of fraud. I have 
no doubt, and it does not seem to be in dispute, that Mr C1 fell victim to numerous 
scams, of varying (but relatively common) types, over the years and paid away a 
significant amount of money. But I also note there was a large gap, between January 
2010 and April 2015 during which no fraud against Mr C1 has been alleged.
Much has been said about Mr C1s mental capacity and I note Mr C2s references to the 
Mental Capacity Act 2005 and the Equality Act 2010. I note, amongst other things, that 
the former Act says a person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established 
that he lacks capacity. And a person shouldnt be treated as unable to make a decision 
merely because he makes an unwise decision. The FCA has also been focussed on 
promoting understanding of, and providing practical help around the treatment of 
vulnerable consumers since at least early-2015. And best practices around fraud 
prevention, which includes the Banking Protocol initiative, have been in place for about 
as long. Ive taken all of this into account when making my decision.
Mr C2 suggests Mr C1s behaviour changed relatively soon after his wife died in 2007. 
And Mr C1 seems to have fallen victim to at least two, fairly typical, romance scams in 
2008 and 2009. Its possible, as the medical professionals suggest, that Mr C1s mental 
capacity had started to diminish back in 2008/9 and I note the concerns one of his 
colleagues expressed around that time about his behaviour. But Im also conscious that 
he was still working as a local councillor at that time, was a director and secretary of a 
number of limited companies (and participation continued in at least one company until 
2019) and living independently. I also see NatWests notes indicate Mr C2 told the bank 
in early-2017 that he planned on obtaining a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) but Mr C1 
didnt sign such a document until November 2018 and it wasnt registered with the Court 
of Protection until April 2019. I have to wonder if Mr C1 had previously refused to appoint 
any attorneys prior to that. In order to appoint attorneys under an LPA the donor must 
be able to understand and make decisions for yourself. And Mr C1 set an optional 
preference that I would like my attorneys to consult my doctor if they believe I may not 
have mental capacity to make decisions about my house. Also that my attorneys must 
not sell my house unless, in my doctors opinion, I can no longer live independently. I 
think its reasonable to take from this that the two attorneys and the solicitor who acted 
as the certificate provider were satisfied Mr C1 had sufficient mental capacity at that time 
to appoint the attorneys and to continue making financial decisions for himself. But I also 
acknowledge that one of the medical professionals said that Mr C1 may have been able 
to maintain a good social faade, successfully hiding the confusion and disorientation 
usually seen in individuals with later stage dementia. 
I am not dismissing the likelihood that the symptoms of Mr C1s dementia would have 
started to manifest prior to it being diagnosed in mid-2019. But I would also say that we often see healthy individuals falling victim to romance or other scams after a significant 
life event like the loss of a partner. Their circumstances mean an unscrupulous scammer 
has managed to exploit them at a time in their life when they were particularly vulnerable. 
And the fact Mr C1 fell victim to so many scams even after being given strong warnings 
by the bank and the police does suggest a vulnerability. But I also cant rule out the 
possibility that Mr C1 engaged with some individuals and subsequently sent them 
money, simply because he was lonely and derived some enjoyment and gratification 
from doing so. Some of the police reports indicate he told them he was lonely and would 
speak to almost anyone who engaged him via various online social media platforms and 
asked for money. Its possible some of those individuals were taking advantage of Mr C1 
and may have lied to him in order to encourage him to pay money to them. But I cant 
fairly say Mr C1 didnt understand, to an extent, that he might be being manipulated and 
accepted this, willingly paying away money to people he didnt really know in order to 
maintain these online friendships. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
the bank to refund money that was paid away in such circumstances. And without 
Mr C1s own recollection of events, its not possible to determine which payments were 
made under these circumstances versus those paid in more traditional scam-type 
situations.
With the previous point in mind, I have some difficulty reconciling that at times Mr C1 
seems to be very much aware of scams, yet he continued to fall victim to them. For 
example, he refers to such many times during his texted conversations with one of the 
scammers between September 2016 and February 2017. He also complained to the 
bank more than once and received a final response letter in March 2017 which dealt with 
some disputed transactions and referred to the blocks on his account which would 
remain while the bank was liaising with the police. The letter informed Mr C1 about the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and advised he had six months to refer a complaint to us, 
but it doesnt seem that he did so. Under our rules, this means I cant look into that 
particular matter either or any other which the bank investigated and which wasnt 
referred to us within six months of NatWests final response letter. And in late-December 
2018 Mr C1 called NatWest to report a scam in which hed relinquished his debit card to 
someone whod told him he worked for the bank. He admitted during the call that hed 
fallen victim to this same scam before and he said, unprompted, that he knew he should 
never give his cards to anyone who calls, instead he should shred them or take them into 
branch. Yet three weeks later he fell victim to the same scam again. He also said during 
one of the calls that he was thinking of moving his entire banking over to Barclays as 
hed had no fraud on the account he held with that bank and felt it was safer than his 
accounts with NatWest.
Mr C1 gave away his debit and/or credit cards to scammers on more than one occasion. 
The bank refunded some of the earlier transactions  its records indicate that 
approximately £13,000 has been refunded  but refused to refund the later ones, after it 
(and the police) had already warned Mr C1 not to give away his cards. I dont dispute 
that it was someone other than Mr C1 who made the disputed cash withdrawals and/or 
card payments. But an unknown third party would not, I dont think, have been able to 
guess the 4-digit PIN that wouldve been needed for any cardholder present 
transactions. So, despite what Mr C1 said, I think its more likely than not he did give 
away his PIN. In the circumstances, I think Mr C1 acted with gross negligence in failing 
to keep his cards and PINs safe, so I dont think it would be fair to instruct the bank to 
refund any of the other unauthorised transactions. 
Mr C1 had a right to access his money and the bank was obliged to follow his 
instructions. But it also had to balance this with protecting a vulnerable consumer and 
preventing fraud. Theres no dispute in this case that NatWest did have concerns about 
Mr C1s vulnerability and the fact he was repeatedly falling victim to fraudsters. Its because of this that the bank took steps in early-2017 to try to protect him. This included 
appointing a protection officer, liaising with the police, blocking his online account access 
and eventually closing his account in early-2019. The last step was taken because all 
other attempts to assist Mr C1 had failed. As Mr C2 points out, at times Mr C1 managed 
to circumvent the measures taken by the bank by withdrawing cash and sending it to the 
scammer via money transfer services. I also see the police reports occasionally say that 
Mr C1 was unwilling to accept he was being scammed. And he complained to both the 
bank and to the police that NatWest was limiting access to his account and he wanted all 
blocks removed. It may be the case, as Mr C2 suggests, that NatWest didnt instigate 
contact with Social Services, but the police reports mention numerous referrals to that 
agency and I think the banks notes indicate it was aware of this involvement. NatWests 
notes also indicate it communicated with Mr C2 in 2017 and 2018 about their joint 
concerns and Mr C2 wasnt always able to persuade his father to share much detail with 
him about the payments he was making. The records Ive seen also indicate Mr C1 
refused any help from a leading charity for older people. The intervention that did take 
place through various parties  including friends, family and professional bodies  didnt 
stop Mr C1 from giving away his money. And I think its likely he would have continued to 
do so if the bank had done more, sooner, to limit his access to his accounts or take other 
safeguarding steps. 
In all the circumstances I cant fairly instruct the bank to refund any of the remaining disputed 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C2, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr C1, to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman