DRN-2271462
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the bank charges and demand for repayment of the debt on 
her current account with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
What happened
Mrs W had a current account with Barclays. There was an overdraft facility of £500. There 
were charges and interest debited to the account. In November 2017, Mrs W switched her 
account to another bank. This left a balance of £509.68 debit on the Barclays account. In 
November 2019, Barclays made demand for repayment of this amount and told Mrs W that 
the account would be terminated after one month.
Mrs W complained to Barclays. She said she was in financial difficulty. They responded in 
November 2019. They said that they were sympathetic to Mrs Ws financial situation and 
advised her to contact independent and free debt counselling organisations, together with 
their contact details. They noted that Mrs W had already been in contact with StepChange. 
But they said that the bank charges and interest were correctly applied in line with their 
terms and conditions and did not agree to refund them.
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service in November 2019. Our investigator responded 
in September 2020. He said that Mrs W used her overdraft facility and therefore Barclays 
were entitled to charge fees and interest for that service. Mrs W received regular account 
statements so she could see what charges were being made and she also got letters 
advising her of unpaid direct debits and standing orders. These showed the fees charged. 
Barclays were not aware of Mrs Ws financial difficulties at the time of running her account. 
Therefore, they had no reason to treat her differently. The debt on the account was left after 
the switch to another bank in November 2017. Barclays had told her about this at the time 
and asked for the money back then. The account was still in arrears, with the same balance 
in November 2019 and so Barclays sent its termination letter demanding the money back. 
He felt that Barclays had acted reasonably.
Mrs W didnt agree an asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cannot tell businesses what their charging policies should be. But we can decide 
whether customers have been treated fairly. If a customer is in financial difficulty, they 
should treat customers sympathetically. 
I have looked at Mrs Ws bank statements. She had borrowing with several other lenders 
and made payments to particular suppliers. She went over her authorised overdraft limit 
sometimes, but she was also able to bring the account back within the limit. Charges and 
interest were applied for the overdraft service and regular statements were sent to Mrs W 
showing all of this. There were several standing orders and direct debits returned unpaid and 
fees had also been charged for this. Barclays showed evidence that Mrs W had been 
advised of these. She was also sent annual summaries showing the total fees paid for use of 
the overdraft and the unpaid items.
While I dont doubt that Mrs W may have being experiencing some difficulties (particularly 
before the switch), I havent seen enough to say this was a result of something Barclays did 
or there was sufficiently clear evidence of financial strain to have put it on notice.  Also, 
Barclays have said that Mrs W hadnt been in touch during the period when charges were 
being made to say she was having any problems. So, I can understand why they didnt 
intervene.
Mrs W switched accounts to another bank in November 2017. After this, there was a debt of 
£509.68. Barclays advised her at that time that it should be repaid. Two years later, the 
balance was the same  it didnt grow. So, no interest or charges had been added. And after 
two years, I think Barclays was justified in terminating the account and asking for the money 
back. 
I see that Mrs W is being supported by StepChange and Barclays has noted Mrs W could 
benefit from assistance from its financial assistance team. Barclays has also offered to put a 
care marker on the account to make its staff aware of Mrs Ws specific situation. I think this 
is reasonable. But I would also urge Barclays to consider the information Mrs W has from 
StepChange about her situation so that it can discuss any repayment plan (or viability of) to 
do with her overdraft. 
But given the above, I dont think they have treated her unfairly in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman