DRN-3664265
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC secured a previously unsecured debt against his 
home without his knowledge. He also complains that when Lloyds passed the debt to its 
debt recovery unit the balance was wrong.
What happened
Mr D took out an unsecured loan with Lloyds. 
In 1998, Lloyds passed the loan to its debt recovery unit with a balance of £4,965.88.
In 1999, Lloyds placed a charge on Mr Ds home in relation to the debt for £5,395.79.
In 2005, the debt was repaid and the charge was released.
In 2019, in respect of a PPI complaint, Lloyds wrote to Mr D and said that he had made 34 
out of the 44 payments due for the loan. Mr D said therefore, the balance passed to the debt 
recovery unit must have been wrong.
Mr D complains that Lloyds secured the loan without his knowledge and that the balance it 
has claimed from his is wrong.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt accept what she 
said. He made a number of points, including:
It was Lloyds who said that £1,212.96 was the amount owed on 19 November 1998.
Lloyds also said he had made 34 out of 44 payments due. That is 34 payments of 
£128.75  so £4,377.50 or 77% of the loan amount.
He had provided evidence showing that he had payments totalling £5,350 to the loan in 
42 payments from 19 October 2001 to 29 July 2005.
He has paid a total of £14,227.50 to the loan  made up of the payments confirmed by 
Lloyds that had been made up to 1998 (£4,377.50), the payments he made from 2001 
(£5,350) and the lump sum payment of £4,500 he made in 2005.
The evidence he has provided supports that no more than £1,212.96 should have been 
passed to Lloyds debt recovery unit.
When the loan fell into arrears, Lloyds must have added the missed payments to the 
balance, which inflated the debt. That went against good practice.
The loan he took was unsecured. The evidence he has shows that Lloyds had already 
secured the debt without his knowledge before it was passed to the debt recovery unit. It 
follows that Lloyds must have sold him a secured loan.
If Lloyds had obtained a charging order then it had acted illegally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about events from more than seventeen years ago  and a large part of it 
concerns events further back than that. A colleague has already found that the complaint 
was brought within the time limits, so I wont revisit that here. But it means not all of the 
information about the loan is available to me. That is understandable due to the time that has 
passed. I have reached what I consider to be a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
evidence we do have.
In his email to us of 30 September 2009, Mr D said the loan was for £7,000. Mr D is relying 
on the information in a letter from Lloyds that said he had made 34 monthly repayments out 
of 44 (the number of monthly repayments agreed). That would equal a loan of £5,665 
(including interest). Im not sure that is a sound basis on which to extrapolate the loan 
balance. And it goes against what Mr D told us in his email about the amount he originally 
borrowed.
In any case, it seems likely that this was a fixed sum loan agreement, where the interest is 
added at the outset. If all of the payments are made in full and on time, then that is all there 
is to pay. But it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr D did not make all of the payments to 
the loan before it was passed to Lloyds debt recovery department. So it would be in line with 
normal practice for a lender to apply additional interest to reflect the missed payments. 
There may also be fees for missed or late payments. 
Lloyds said it would not usually sell a secured personal loan for under £25,000. In my 
experience, it would be less likely for a personal loan for around £5,000 to be secured. Mr D 
has pointed to Lloyds internal notes that suggest the loan was secured before it was passed 
to the debt recovery unit. But if that were the case, I would expect it to be shown on the 
property register. But the evidence we have only shows a charge from Lloyds in 1999. 
Lloyds has also said that it is possible that the lending was for business. It wouldnt be 
unusual for a lender to take a charge against the property where the purpose of the loan was 
for business.
Lloyds would usually only be able to obtain a charging order with a court order. If it had done 
so, it is also likely that it had obtained a County Court Judgment. In that case, I might not 
have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. That is because the debt was repaid under a 
court order  not because of the original loan agreement. But we dont have any of the court 
papers and the circumstances arent clear, so Im going to give Mr D the benefit of the doubt.
It seems more likely than not that the loan was secured either because it was a business 
loan or because Lloyds obtained a charging order. I havent seen any evidence Lloyds 
secured the debt unfairly.
I note Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. But I dont consider that the calculations 
here would ever be as straightforward as he suggests. They dont take into account that 
payments were missed and additional interest  along with probably other fees and charges. 
There may also have been additional legal costs that Lloyds passed on. I note the Report of 
Interest on Account we have shows the balance increasing due to interest  and that the 
payments Mr D made at that time were less than the interest that was being applied. It is also likely that Mr D was given information about the loan that supported the amounts he 
paid to it. It seems likely that if he had reason to question those amounts, he would have 
done so at the time in question, rather than pay what Lloyds requested.
Again, I appreciate why looking at things now, Mr D thinks that there has been a mistake. 
But looking at the evidence we have, Im not sufficiently persuaded that the balance Lloyds 
claimed was incorrect. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman