DRN-3029168
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy to protect a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs H took out the PPI when she extended her mortgage in 2006 at the time Mrs H was 59 
years old.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld because the policy 
recommendation was unsuitable as there wouldve only been a limited period where
Mrs H would be able to make a claim on the policy and thought if she had understood this, 
she wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Santander disagreed. So, the complaint has come to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator and my decision is to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Santander advised Mrs H to take the policy. As Santander was giving advice it had a 
responsibility to make sure it was suitable for her.
Santander has explained that the policy would have covered Mrs H until the age of 65 so 
even though she was 59 years old when she took the policy, she could continue the benefit 
from it for several years.
I dont agree with what Santander has told us. Mrs Hs state retirement age was 60 years. 
Mrs H stopped being eligible for the policy when she retired. It is clear from the notes 
provided from the Santander that Mrs H did retire at age 60, as when she called Santander 
for something unrelated her policy was cancelled due to her no longer being eligible for it.
So, I dont think the recommendation was suitable given Mrs Hs age and circumstances as
she wouldve only had a limited time to benefit under the policy 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs H in the position she wouldve been had she not taken out the 
policy. So, Santander should:
Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she got it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc and direct it
pays the fair compensation outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman