DRN-1428403
 
The complaint
Mr G says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
It has been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, I will refer to AXA in my decision. 
What happened
In September 1999 Mr G bought some electrical items on credit. At the same time he was 
sold a regular premium PPI policy. The policy provided cover for Mr G so that if he couldnt 
work because he was sick or lost his job, the payments towards his agreement would be 
paid for up to 12 months per claim. The policy cost ££148.0.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said Mr G knew he had a choice in taking 
out the policy. And he said the policy couldve been useful for him. Mr G disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr G and AXA agree the PPI was sold in the store where Mr G was shopping. But there are 
no records of what may have been discussed at the time. So its difficult for me to know 
exactly what happened. Because of this I have to consider what I think more likely happened 
based on the available evidence and submissions.
I think AXA made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was selected when Mr G 
signed a section about PPI, under the statement that said only sign if you want cover. And 
Mr G signed the application form. And I can see that it would have been possible to choose 
to proceed without PPI. Ive considered carefully the fact that the application form is typed, 
but I think that the details, including Mr Gs name and address together with the credit 
agreement details were filled in on screen by the representative during the application 
process. The form was then printed off for Mr G to sign in two places.
So taking all this into account, I think Mr G knew he had a choice in taking out the PPI and 
he chose to buy it because he saw some value in it.
I dont think AXA gave Mr G advice to buy the policy, but it still had a duty to give him clear 
and fair information about the policy so that he could decide if he wanted it. Its possible the 
information AXA gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But even if 
AXA had given him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have made a 
difference. I still think he would have taken out the policy. I say this because Mr G was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover. For 
example, he told us he was employed and didnt suffer from any pre-existing medical 
conditions, so he wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms about known health issues or 
unusual working arrangements.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr G and the benefit the 
policy wouldve paid out in the event of a successful claim was higher than most other 
policies. So, I dont think better information about the costs wouldve stopped Mr G from 
taking the policy.
Based on what I know about Mr Gs circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to him  the PPI policy wouldve paid out if Mr G was off sick or made redundant. And 
it wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits he had  so I think he wouldve found the 
policy helpful.
In summary, I dont think AXA properly informed Mr G about all the aspects of the policy 
when he bought it. But, when I weigh everything up, based on what Mr G told us about his 
circumstances, I dont think that he wouldve made a different decision (and decided against 
taking it out) if any of the features had been better explained. This means he isnt worse off 
as a result of what AXA did wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman