DRN-3222184
The complaint
Mr E has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
under a warranty.
  
What happened
Mr E contacted D&G because his cooker stopped working. About two weeks later, D&G sent 
an engineer. The engineer found that the earth loop had failed in the fuse box to the house.  
As a result, the engineer was unable to carry out a repair to the cooker. The engineer 
explained this to Mr E and advised him to contact an electrician. The engineer also provided 
Mr E with a list of parts that he thought would be required to fix the cooker when the 
electrical issue was resolved. Following this Mr E replaced the cooker. He said D&G should 
pay for the cost of the cooker and its installation.
When Mr E complained, D&G said its engineer had acted in line with health and safety 
guidelines by not carrying out work on the cooker and saying Mr E should contact an 
electrician. The engineer had also left a list with Mr E and made a note on its systems of 
what was needed if the cooker still had an issue once the earth fault was fixed. D&G said 
that even though a new cooker had been installed, it still wouldnt be able to work on that 
cooker if a fault was found on it if there was still an issue with the electrical circuit. D&G said 
it wasnt willing to provide any compensation for the cost of a new cooker. However, it 
offered £40 because of the delays in sending an engineer.
So, Mr E complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
D&G didnt need to pay for the replacement cooker. But, due to the delay in sending an 
engineer, he said D&G should pay a total of £150 compensation.
Following this, Mr E said he also wanted D&G to remove his old cooker. Our investigator 
asked D&G to do so. D&G agreed to the increased compensation, but didnt agree to 
remove the cooker, so the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
When the engineer visited, he found there was an electrical fault in the house, which meant 
he couldnt work on the cooker. As part of its review, D&G confirmed it would have breached 
health and safety regulations for the engineer to have carried out any work. The engineer 
explained what Mr E should do to get the fault investigated and also provided a list of parts 
that might be necessary to fix the cooker itself. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable.
As I understand it, Mr E instead bought a new cooker and also didnt have the electrical work 
carried out. Mr E wants D&G to pay for the new cooker and its installation. However, Im not 
currently persuaded there is any reason why D&G should do so. Mr E decided to deal with 
the issue with his cooker in a different way to what was recommended. I dont think that then 
meant D&G was responsible for paying the costs for a new cooker. Reading the policy 
documents, D&G would normally first attempt to repair an appliance before it would consider 
replacing it. D&G didnt have an opportunity to attempt a repair because of the electrics 
issue. So, I dont think D&G needed to consider replacing the cooker at this stage or pay Mr 
Es costs of doing so.
Mr E also wanted D&G to remove the old cooker. D&G wasnt responsible for the appliance 
being replaced. But even if it was, looking at the policy wording, this said: If your appliance 
is replaced, you will need to arrange the disposal of the replaced appliance. So, D&G 
wouldnt have disposed of the old cooker anyway. So, Im also currently of the view that 
D&G doesnt need to arrange for the old cooker to be removed.
Ive also looked at the service Mr E received overall. When Mr E first contacted D&G, the 
first available appointment was about a month away. Mr E then contacted D&G again to try 
and get an earlier appointment and after various attempts by D&G to find a contractor, an 
engineer was able to visit about two weeks after Mr E first made contact. I think it would 
have caused Mr E inconvenience not to have an engineer visit for about two weeks. It also 
seemed to need Mr E making further contact in order to D&G to find the earlier appointment, 
which I think will also have inconvenienced Mr E. So, I currently intend to say that D&G 
should pay Mr E a total of £150 compensation, as I think this better reflects the 
inconvenience caused to him.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 15 December 2021.
Mr E said he was forced to buy a new cooker because the engineer left him with a faulty and 
unusable cooker. The engineer could have disconnected the cooker, which a local 
electrician instead did when they installed the new cooker. Mr E said there was nothing 
wrong with the trip. The engineer bypassed any attempt to carry out an examination or repair 
and instead spend the time talking to a colleague on the phone. Mr E overheard parts of this 
conversation and said I should be aware of its content to explain the engineers lack of 
interest in completing the job. The trip had now been updated, not because it was faulty but 
as a practical adaptation when the new cooker was bought.
D&G accepted the decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, I considered Mr Es further comments, but these didnt 
persuade me to change my view on the appropriate outcome to this complaint. It isnt in 
dispute that the D&G engineer didnt repair the cooker or that Mr E then arranged for the 
cooker to be replaced. I remain of the view that, in the circumstances, D&G doesnt need to 
pay the cost of replacing the cooker.
I asked Mr E for further details about what he overheard the engineer saying and queried 
why he hadnt raised this before. Mr E didnt provide me with any further details beyond 
saying I should ask the engineer. I asked D&G for its comments. D&G confirmed the call 
wasnt to it, but was unable to comment on this point any further. Although Mr E has said 
what the engineer discussed was significant, he declined to answer any questions about the 
details of the call or why he was only raising it now. So, Im not persuaded that this point 
means I should change my decision about how this complaint should be resolved.
  
Putting things rightI require D&G to pay £150 compensation.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr E a total 
of £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman