DRN-3674321
The complaint
Mr S complains that a Nationwide Building Society error resulted in him losing out on
interest.
Mr S is represented by his sister in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr S himself.
What happened
Mr S attempted to open a Help to Buy Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Nationwide
online as he wanted to save for a house deposit. Mr S says he didnt hear back from
Nationwide, and due to family circumstances during the pandemic, he had forgotten about
the account, until he saw a property he wanted to buy.
Mr S started a mortgage application with Nationwide and enquired why his ISA wasnt
opened. He says the branch told him that Nationwide had sent him a letter as he hadnt
provided identification to open the account, but when Mr S asked for a copy of this letter, the
branch confirmed that no letter was actually sent and they had sent him an email instead. Mr
S says the email apparently informed him the account was open and a book/card was on its
way to him.
Mr S has now located the email in a junk mail folder. He says he has deposited the
maximum opening and monthly subscriptions, but Nationwides error has meant that he has
missed out on months of interest on the account. Mr S complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold his complaint, so Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our
investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that Nationwide had provided her two
emails to show that on 11 December 2019, that they had received Mr Ss application and on
18 December 2019, his account was opened. She said that the email on 18 December
stated that only if a passbook was requested would Mr S receive one, but Nationwide said if
Mr S applied for the account in branch, then this would be the only way hed be eligible to
receive a passbook.
Our investigator also explained to Mr S that Nationwide also confirmed to us that the account
details were sent to Mr S shortly after 18 December 2019. But due to the information
contained within this email, this isnt kept and therefore Nationwide are unable to provide a
copy of this email. She said that Nationwide had also sent a letter to Mr S dated 12
November 2020, which reminded him of how his Help to Buy ISA worked.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said he did not receive the initial two emails that Nationwide sent him or the
letter they sent him in November 2020, he said that there was not a third email that
Nationwide claims to have sent him. While hes since found the first two emails, there was
no record of the third email and he doubted whether Nationwide would send him a email with
account specific details, due to the risk of this being intercepted by hackers and he said
Nationwide should have retained this email.
Mr S also said that his mother contacted Nationwide in the week of 9 December 2019, to
request a passbook for his account. He also queried how the branch was able to open
another Help to Buy ISA for him if there was one already open and noted that he was asked
for identification in branch whereas he did not have to provide any identification when
applying online.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must make Mr S aware that our rules state we can only consider the impact on eligible
complainants. Mr S meets the definition of an eligible complainant, so Im able to look into
this complaint. But Im not able to consider any impact on behalf of another party, such as Mr
Ss mother, who was speaking on behalf of Mr S to Nationwide, prior to the account being
fully opened and with the branch also. This is because Mr Ss mother is not regarded as an
eligible complainant as the account is in Mr Ss name only.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another (such as what was said in
a branch where there would be no record of this), I have to consider the evidence available
to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats
more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about not receiving the emails dated 11 December and
18 December 2019. I dont doubt that he didnt realise these had been sent to a junk mail
folder. But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for this. I say this as Nationwide had informed
Mr S that they had received his application on 11 December and then on 18 December they
informed him that his account was open. So Im satisfied that Nationwide were clear on the
progress of his account opening here and I cant hold them responsible for the email
provider designating these important emails as junk.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Nationwide saying they sent a third email and
there was no evidence of this. I asked Nationwide about why they would not keep details of
this and asked about the security of the email containing account details as they had
indicated the email contained. Nationwide confirmed it was not a third email they sent to Mr
S as it was a welcome letter that they sent, which informed him of his account details and
how he could use his account.
Nationwide provided me with a template of what this letter would have contained. But they
said they do not archive these letters as the data files get deleted within a few days of being
sent, due to General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) retention policies. It is not the role
of this service to instruct a business what documents they should keep and for how long. But
if Mr S has concerns about how Nationwide has managed his data and how long they retain
this for, he may wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office.
It's possible that Mr S did not receive this welcome letter as he says he did not receive a
letter he was sent in November 2020 from Nationwide also. But Nationwide held Mr Ss
correct address. So if Mr S did not receive this, then I cant hold Nationwide responsible for
any issues with the postal system as this would be outside of their control. But theres no
doubt that Nationwide had also sent Mr S two emails previously (which he has now seen), soNationwide had been clear on his later email that his account was open, regardless of
whether Mr S received the welcome letter on not.
Ive then considered what Mr S has said about a passbook. Mr S says his mother spoke to
Nationwide on the phone in the week of 9 December 2019. I asked Nationwide if they had a
copy of this call. Nationwide provided me with a screenshot of Mr Ss contact history
(telephone only), which was blank. They told me that if his mother contacted them, Mr S
would need to go through security and then give Nationwide the authority to speak to his
mother on his behalf. As a result of this, a footprint of the call would show on Mr Ss contact
history as it was his account and he wouldve needed to complete security, however, there
was no footprint showing this happened.
As the account was opened on 18 December 2019 and Mr S said his mother spoke to them
in the week of 9 December, then his account wouldnt have been opened yet. I asked
Nationwide if the call handler would have been able to link a passbook to an account which
wasnt open yet and they confirmed that a passbook couldnt have been issued to an
account which wasnt open. This is because there would be no account number or even an
application number. So Im satisfied that Nationwide wouldnt be able to issue a passbook in
these circumstances.
Ive looked at Nationwides internal documents regarding the Help to Buy ISA. This confirms
that a passbook for the account would not be available if the account was opened online 
which Mr Ss account was. The document states that if a passbook is available for a
customer then it must be requested from a branch. So Nationwide would not have been able
to send a passbook out to Mr S based on a call that his mother had with Nationwide anyway.
Ive also considered that Nationwide sent Mr S a letter in November 2020 about his account
(and November 2021). I know that Mr S says he didnt receive this, but I can see that the
letter was sent to Mr Ss registered address. Nationwides records show this was mailed to
Mr S on 18 November 2020, so I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any issues with the
postal system if he did not receive this letter.
I asked Nationwide how the branch was able to open another Help to Buy ISA for Mr S and
the identification requirements he was asked for, despite him saying that he didnt have to
provide any identification when he applied for the account online. Nationwide told me that a
customer cant hold two Help to Buy ISAs. Mr Ss record shows that he has only opened
one Help to Buy ISA and it wasnt opened in branch.
Nationwide confirmed the Help to Buy ISA was opened in December 2019 and it has not
been closed and re-opened. Im satisfied the branch would not have been able to open
another Help to Buy ISA for Mr S when he says they did as the product was withdrawn for
new applicants shortly after Mr S had applied for the account. And the Key Product
Information shows s member could only have one Help to Buy ISA at any time.
Its possible that Mr S contacted the branch and requested a passbook, but the branch did
not open up a new account for him. Nationwide confirmed that Mr S did not need to provide
any physical identification documents when applying online, as he was electronically verified.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide did not breach any rules for identifying Mr S electronically.
Nationwide informed Mr S that his account was open by email, and he could use his
account. They followed this up with a welcome letter. Ive read everything that Mr S has said
about why he had forgotten about the account and Im sorry he had difficult personal
circumstances to deal with at the time. But it would be Mr Ss responsibility to enquire with
Nationwide about this account if he was under the impression the account wasnt opened 
and to find out how to deposit into this account when it was open.Mr S would be aware that £200 a month was not leaving his account or that the £1,000
hadnt been deposited into his account, so it would not be proportionate to ask Nationwide to
backdate any interest on the account when he had not deposited any money into the
account when it was opened  and they sent him an email informing him the account was
open. It would be Mr Ss responsibility to check emails for the email address that he gave
Nationwide. So I cant agree that Nationwide made an error here. They opened his account
after electronically verifying him, and they did not send him a passbook as he applied online
for the account. So it follows I dont intend to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr S did not respond to my provisional decision. Nationwide said they had no 
further comments to make at this stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman