DRN-2417956
The complaint
 Mr G has complained about MCE Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under his motorbike insurance policy. 
  
What happened
 Mr Gs bike was stolen in May 2018 and so he claimed under his insurance policy. Mr G had 
engaged the steering lock and the thieves had overcome his additional bike lock and taken 
his motorbike. MCE looked into the circumstances surrounding the theft and looked to settle 
the claim. But when it offered Mr G what it thought was a fair market value for his bike he 
disputed the valuation. And before the claim was settled Mr Gs bike was recovered in 
October 2018.
When MCE eventually inspected the motorbike various damage had been caused to the bike 
after it was stolen. And the engineer said there wasnt any evidence of damage to the 
steering lock, so MCE declined the claim as it said the steering lock wasnt activated. Mr G 
maintained that he locked his bike and put the steering lock on when his bike was stolen. 
And so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She didnt think MCE 
had sufficient evidence to show that Mr G hadnt engaged his steering lock at the time of the 
theft. And she highlighted that bikes can be stolen easily by lifting them into a van and often 
are. So she asked MCE to pay the claim, adding 8% simple interest and to pay Mr G £100 
compensation.
As MCE didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Mr G made his theft claim MCE agreed to pay the claim and didnt have any 
questions about the circumstances surrounding the theft. It offered Mr G the market value of 
his bike and things were only delayed as Mr G disputed this. Ive looked at the valuation and 
as our investigator explained I think MCE offered a fair market value in line with the valuation 
trade guides. And as Mr G seems to have accepted this I dont propose to go over this in any 
further detail. Instead Ill focus on the key issue, the decline of the claim.
Although I can understand MCEs position I agree with the investigator that it hasnt provided 
sufficient evidence to support its stance. I say this as it hasnt provided any detailed 
evidence about how it believes Mr Gs bike was stolen. The bike was used for months 
without a genuine key and the thief caused general damage to the motorbike and yet MCE 
hasnt provided any comment about this. 
It seems clear that Mr Gs bike was used for a significant period of time without a genuine 
key and MCE hasnt provided any detail about the application of the steering lock or how the 
bike was used without a genuine key, and I wouldve expected it to. As it stands the only 
comment by the engineer who looked at the bike was that there was no keys, no signs of 
forced steering. But this doesnt explain how the bike had been used or provide any 
comment on the application of the steering lock at the time of theft or since that time.
But Mr G has given a clear account about what happened. He says he put the steering lock 
on and that the thieves broke his additional bike lock which was left at the scene. And MCE 
initially accepted this when it agreed to pay the claim. Furthermore, I understand that there 
can be problems with the steering locks on these bikes which MCE hasnt explored.
As such, I think it is quite likely that the bike was stolen by lifting. I know MCE says it isnt 
possible for an individual to lift the bike, but thieves usually operate in pairs or gangs and 
steal bikes by lifting them into a van which seems likely in this instance.
So, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is for 
MCE to pay Mr Gs claim as it originally agreed to. As outlined above I think MCEs valuation 
is fair and it should pay 8% simple interest for the time Mr G has been without the money 
owed as his motorbike was a write off. And I agree that he should be paid £100 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience he has faced. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance 
Company Limited to settle Mr Gs claim and pay him the market value of his motorbike. It 
should add 8% simple interest from the time of theft until the settlement of the claim and pay 
him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman