DRN-3420133
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr J is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2014, Mr J was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr J decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Js behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr J to enter into the contract with P. The 
misrepresentations the CMC said had been made included:
the system would not cost Mr J anything and provide him with a substantial income over 
the lifespan of the system; and
the monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills and 
the FIT (Feed in Tariff) payments; and
the sales representative used jargon, facts and figures that made no sense to Mr J; and
the system would pay for itself within 6 years;
Shawbrook didnt issue their final response within eight weeks so the CMC referred Mr Js 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented. She recommended that Shawbrook recalculate the 
original loan based upon the known and assumed savings and income to Mr J from the solar 
panels over the 15-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system. In addition, she thought Shawbrook should also pay compensation of 
£100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Shawbrook subsequently offered compensation of £200 as a reflection of the delays in their 
investigation of Mr Js complaint. Our investigator endorsed this offer confirming that this 
amount would override her originally recommended compensation for trouble and upset  
The CMC havent specifically provided their agreement to our investigators 
recommendations. Shawbrook didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said:
P investigated Mr Js solar system in 2015 and found it was underperforming. P 
calculated the loss of generation as 2,708.44 kWh and compensated Mr J with an 
amount of £58.81 at the time, in line with their first-year guarantee, which Mr J 
accepted.
Mr J didnt raise further concerns until the CMC contacted P in March 2021 about a 
system fault. P addressed the fault and replaced a component.
A FIT statement provided by Mr J as at March 2020 showed the system had 
generated 13,640.19 kWh since installation. However, as P had already 
compensated Mr J in 2015, the lost generation of 2,708.44 kWh should be added to 
this figure to provide a more accurate average performance figure. This meant the 
average annual performance was within an acceptable tolerance. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to consider; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for Mr J for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr J paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr J could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr J and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The Mr J says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely 
self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include a loan statement and some illustrative performance tables. The tables are 
usually included within a solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Neither the CMC 
nor Shawbrook have provided a copy of the original solar quote. But as Im familiar with 
these tables from other such cases, Ive considered these, along with the Mr Js testimony 
and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have 
happened. 
The quote is usually a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr J, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to Mr J agreeing to enter into the contract. Ive also noted that the CMCs letter of complaint to Shawbrook appears to support that the 
quote formed a central part of the sales process. The letter of complaint refers to the sales 
pitch and the sales literature provided to our client.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Js version 
of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement usually sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
Unfortunately, neither Shawbrook nor the CMC have provided a copy of the credit 
agreement. But the CMC have provided a statement of Mr Js loan with Shawbrook dated 
August 2019. It shows that the loan was first opened in August 2014 with an amount 
borrowed of £7,185.
The tables provided by the CMC and Shawbrook refer to the system performance and 
returns and show a cash price for the system of £7,185. It also includes a table confirming 
monthly repayments over 180 months of £78.22.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr J was told that the cost of the system was £7,185. The 
tables set this out clearly. This is also supported by the loan statement which sets out that 
the original loan amount was £7,185 and the actual monthly repayment was £78.21. 
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Js recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The tables make this clear, as 
shown below. Overall, Im satisfied that the documents, the quote tables and the loan 
statement, show that although the cost of the system was £7,185, it would cost Mr J more 
than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr J has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the tables that were 
provided by P within their solar quote, as well as the Mr Js recollections of his meeting with 
Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The System Performance and Returns table includes the estimated income Mr J could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments each year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think this table is clear that Mr J could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£523.13, which results in an average monthly income of £43.59. As outlined above, Im 
satisfied that the loan statement and the tables set out that there would be a repayment due 
of £78.21. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the Mr J was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
This table above also looks at the electricity savings Mr J could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £397.85 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr J, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,364.31, which results in an average monthly total of £113.69
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr J entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £78.22. For each year of the 15-
year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £78.22, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think this table clearly sets out the income Mr J could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I 
accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments alone. This 
supports my finding above that the Mr J wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Js version of events. However, as Ive found 
that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr J was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr J that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide whats most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did make a representation that the system would be 
self-funding from the outset. I find that the salesperson went through the quote at the 
meeting which included this table setting out that there would be a surplus of the expected 
income and savings above the monthly loan repayments.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr J that the system would pay for itself, and 
this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
System Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr J. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,029.52 kWh a year. This figure is also confirmed in a letter P sent to Mr J in 
September 2015.
I have looked at Mr Js FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,507.44 kWh. This is less than was estimated by P at the point of sale, so I think 
the system hasnt been performing as expected.
Shawbrook have confirmed that Mr J contacted P in 2015 to express concerns that the 
system they installed at his home wasnt performing. Ive been provided with a letter sent by 
P to Mr J in September 2015. In it they confirm that the meter reading provided by Mr J 
suggested a loss of generation of 2,708.44 kWh. They said this entitled Mr J to a payment of 
£58.81 to compensate for the recorded loss of generation against the guaranteed first years 
modelled FIT generation that had been calculated.
Shawbrook have suggested that the shortfall in year one of 2,708.44 kWh should be added 
to the latest generation figure in order to calculate a more accurate average annual figure. 
This is on the basis that P have already compensated Mr J for the first years shortfall. So, 
Ive considered whether the performance of the system installed has shown any 
improvement during the period after P compensated him. Since then, it appears that Mr Js 
system has been generating, on average, less than 2,400 kWh each year. So, while I accept 
that P paid an amount in compensation in respect of the underperformance in year one, I 
cant find any evidence that P took steps to remedy that thereafter. So, it appears Mr Js 
system continued to underperform.
Ive also considered the amount of compensation paid by P in September 2015. At the time, 
Mr J benefitted from a generation tariff of 14.28 p/kWh. And with 50% of the generation 
deemed to be export, that element attracted a further tariff of 4.77 p/kWh. These figures are 
slightly less than P used in the System Performance and Returns table above. In their letter, 
P agreed there was a generation shortfall of 2,708.44 kWh. So, using these tariffs, I would 
expect P to have paid compensation of £389.47 generation and £64.60 export, totalling 
£454.07. This being the shortfall P agreed against what Mr J shouldve received, had the 
system been performing as expected.
Assumptions used
In cases such as this, I would usually consider the assumptions used by P, including the 
self-consumption rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual 
RPI inflation increase. But neither Shawbrook nor the CMC have been able to provide a full 
copy of the solar quote So Im not able to comment on whether Ps method for calculating 
these was fair and reasonable.
Further, in calculating the expected electricity savings, I would expect P to have obtained 
details of Mr Js existing electricity usage, prior to the system being installed. This 
information would be used to help model the savings detailed within the solar quote. But as 
Ive stated, a copy of the quote hasnt been provided, so Im unable to comment specifically 
on this aspect.Ongoing system underperformance
Shawbrook have said that the CMC contacted P again in March 2021, after referral to this 
service. They had concerns about a fault within the system P had installed. Shawbrook say 
that P established the cause of the problem. But they also say that P were subsequently 
informed that the issue had resolved itself although a replacement component was still fitted 
in April 2021. Its suggested that this would resolve ongoing generation problems. 
While I accept that P may have now addressed the generation issues, Ive not been provided 
with an evidence to demonstrate that Mr Js system is now performing as expected. Im also 
not satisfied that P addressed the systems underperformance when Mr J contacted them in 
2015. While they paid compensation, Ive seen no evidence that the underperformance 
issues were resolved. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Mr J was told by P that the system installed at his home would pay for itself 
from the outset. The tables provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook confirm this. Im also 
satisfied that the system hasnt performed as expected prior to Mr Cs claim.
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between Mr Js and businesses providing 
financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this one, 
determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr J from the solar 
panels over the 15-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr J is paying (or has paid) more than he shouldve, 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse Mr J accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr J and the CMC by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Js loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr J in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 15-year loan term. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Js monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve paid more each month than he shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as he wouldve been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr J have the following 
options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used: 
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, 
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he pays a 
new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr J and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr J and he pays a new monthly payment until the end 
of the loan term. If Mr J accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
In the event Mr J has settled his loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between 
what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest. 
In the event Mr J has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr J should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. refund the extra Mr J paid each month with the Shawbrook loan; 
2. add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr J receives his refund;
3. refund the extra Mr J paid with the refinanced loan; 
4. add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr J receives his refund; 
5. pay Mr J the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr J first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. So, I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. In full and final
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
allow Mr J to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr J from the panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, they should 
use Mr Js electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement,
allow Mr J to decide, using the four options given above, how his overpayments should 
be used; and
pay Mr J £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much itss taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate
showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman