DRN-2256286
The complaint
Mr W complains that LGT Vestra LLP (LGTV) failed to provide him with adequate 
information regarding the associated costs of the investment of his pension savings. He 
further complains that the investments held within his portfolio didnt follow the investment 
strategy hed agreed with LGTV and that they encompassed too great a level of risk for his 
circumstances. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr W decided to transfer his pension savings from an occupational pension scheme 
into a Self-Invested Pension Plan. The pension savings hed transferred to the SIPP were 
subsequently managed by a discretionary fund manager. In December 2011 Mr W met with 
LGTV and agreed to transfer the management of his pension investments to the firm.
When that transfer was originally made Mr W was keen to ensure that the management 
costs of his investments were kept to a minimum. So a portion of his holdings  generally 
large UK stocks - were transferred in specie and retained within the SIPP.
Mr W says that his pension investments performed well for the following three years and 
comfortably exceeded the performance target hed agreed with LGTV. But by early 2015 
both Mr W and LGTV became concerned that the markets were overvalued. So, despite 
some reservations, Mr W agreed to LGTVs proposal to move a large proportion of his 
pension savings into Absolute Return funds with the intention of returning the portfolio to 
more conventional investments when market conditions allowed. In order to facilitate those 
changes Mr W gave LGTV a wholly unconstrained investment mandate and agreed to a 
bespoke risk profile.
In 2017 Mr W says he became concerned that the agreed investment strategy wasnt being 
followed and that he remained heavily invested in the absolute return funds. He asked LGTV 
for some further information about the Total Expense Ratio (TER) of these funds. LGTV 
explained that whilst it didnt have exact information, the average TER would be around 
1.5%.
In March 2019 LGTV issued a new Investment Policy Statement to Mr W. As part of that 
document it noted that it no longer considered a risk profile description of bespoke to be an 
adequate narrative for its clients. So it confirmed that the risk profile of Mr Ws investment 
approach was now recorded to be Very High.  That categorisation concerned Mr W given 
that he was now approaching retirement and he sought clarification from LGTV. However 
before any meeting took place Mr W decided to terminate his relationship and arranged for 
his pension investments to be sold and held in cash.
In April 2019, as a result of changes required under the MiFiD II directives LGTV provided 
Mr W with a detailed breakdown of the charges that had been paid on his pension 
investments in the previous year. LGTV says that much of this information wasnt previously 
available to it. The information showed that, after taking account of the advice and servicing 
charge Mr W was paying to LGTV, his pension savings had borne an average charge of 
around 2%. Mr W considered that to be far higher than the estimates LGTV had previously 
given to him, and he raised a complaint. And later in that year Mr W further complained 
about the investment approach LGTV had taken and the risk characteristics of his portfolio.
LGTV didnt agree with Mr Ws complaints so he brought the matters to this Service. Mr Ws 
complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She noted that whilst the 
translation of the bespoke risk profile meant that it was recategorised as High Risk, in fact 
Mr Ws pension savings were invested with a medium risk profile. She thought that LGTV 
had fairly estimated the costs that Mr W was paying on his pension investments. And she 
didnt think that LGTV had failed to follow the investment strategy that it had agreed with 
Mr W. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by LGTV. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr Ws complaint falls into three distinct parts. I will deal with each in turn.
Were the charges adequately disclosed to Mr W?
Our adjudicator has explained that the charges that were disclosed to Mr W following the 
changes required by the MiFiD II regulations comprised of both the advice and servicing 
charges levied by LGTV and those relating to the funds in which his pension savings were 
invested. At an approximate level, Mr W was paying charges of 0.5% to LGTV with the 
remaining 1.5% being paid to the investment funds.
When considering the disclosure of a TER I would generally expect the figure to relate to the 
charges being levied by an investment fund alone. Those charges would generally be the 
same for investors across a range of advisors. And they would allow an investor (or advisor) 
to compare the charges being levied by each fund. But since the MiFiD changes, the 
disclosure of those charges has become far more detailed. And that has allowed the 
reporting provided to consumers to properly reflect the charges they are paying.However before 2018 that level of disclosure wasnt required. And so the information 
available to LGTV was somewhat limited. That doesnt suggest that LGTV was in some way 
negligent in the information it provided. It is simply a reflection of the markets practices at 
that time. Higher charges in a fund could, to a degree, be masked by investment 
performance.
So I dont think that the information LGTV provided to Mr W, when it estimated the average 
TER as being around 1.5% was incorrect, or misleading. I think it was a fair reflection of the 
best information that was available to the firm at that time. And following the greater 
disclosure in 2018 it was shown to be reasonably accurate.
I appreciate that throughout his relationship with LGTV Mr W has been keen to stress that he 
wanted to minimise the charges he was paying. But I think the changes he agreed to his 
investment approach in 2015, were made in the knowledge that using absolute return funds 
would increase the overall fund charges he paid. I dont think that LGTV failed to make Mr W 
sufficiently aware of those charges either at that time, or over the lifetime of their 
relationship.
Did LGTV follow the agreed investment approach?
The changes that LGTV proposed to the investment approach in 2015 were agreed by Mr W 
as being a short-term measure to protect against a potential market correction. He says his 
expectation at that time was that as market conditions changed, LGTV could take advantage 
of under-priced investments to return his pension savings to a more normal investment 
approach. But when Mr W left LGTV in 2019 a large proportion of his pension savings 
remained invested in the absolute return funds.
Mr W has commissioned some independent analysis of the market conditions since 2015. 
That analysis has concluded that there were a number of occasions when it might have been 
appropriate for LGTV to reduce Mr Ws investments in the absolute return funds.
But that analysis has of course been performed with the benefit of hindsight. It is clearly far 
easier to view market trends after the event. So I must treat those conclusions, that there 
were opportunities to reduce Mr Ws investments in the absolute return funds, with a degree 
of caution.
LGTV were the experts that Mr W decided to entrust with his pension investments. I havent 
seen anything that clearly suggests that LGTV did anything other than exercise its 
reasonable judgement about whether, or when, it might be appropriate to alter the 
investments it had chosen to meet Mr Ws objectives. I accept that with the benefit of 
hindsight other investment approaches would have resulted in better returns for Mr W. But 
equally, as Mr W acknowledged, there was a possibility that approach would have proven 
beneficial if the market had behaved differently. 
It appears that LGTV explained its approach to Mr W over the course of the investments and 
provided him with answers to his questions that might have allowed him to challenge the 
approach that had been taken. Whilst, as the professionals, I would expect LGTV to have 
taken the lead on any proposed changes, Mr W was equally able to alter the strategy if he 
had felt it was failing to meet his objectives. 
Was the risk profile of the investment approach appropriate for Mr W?
When the changes to the investment approach were agreed by Mr W in 2015 he provided 
LGTV with a wholly unconstrained investment mandate. He acknowledged at that time that 
his portfolio might become more volatile and expose him to a greater risk of investment losses. In order to facilitate that investment mandate LGTV didnt apply a standard 
categorisation of the risk that Mr W was willing to take  instead his attitude to risk was 
recorded as bespoke. Mr W accepted that categorisation.
In 2019 LGTV reviewed the categorisation of risk it applied to some of its clients. As part of 
that review it concluded that it was unreasonable to continue with a bespoke categorisation 
of risk  it seems that it felt that failed to provide an adequate description of the risk profiles 
that were being applied.
So LGTV reviewed the investment mandate it held on Mr Ws pension savings. And given 
the unconstrained nature of that mandate, and thus the ability for Mr Ws pension savings to 
be invested in almost any fund or investment vehicle, it felt a risk categorisation of 
Very High would be appropriate.
But that categorisation didnt reflect the underlying investments that were actually held in 
Mr Ws portfolio. The individual investments he held covered a wide range of different risk 
profiles. But from the information I have seen I think it would be reasonable to describe those 
investments as exhibiting a medium level of risk overall. It is quite common for diversified 
portfolios to contain a mixture of higher and lower risk investments to arrive at an overall 
medium risk level.
So I appreciate that the revised information provided to Mr W might have been disturbing for 
him, particularly as he moved closer to retirement. But I dont think that LGTVs actual 
investment of Mr Ws pension savings had placed them at a greater level of risk than would 
be appropriate for its agreement with him.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr W given that his analysis has 
shown that an alternative investment approach would have achieved far higher returns. But 
I think LGTV acted in line with the investment strategy that Mr W agreed, and based on an 
appropriate measure of risk. And I dont think LGTV failed to provide Mr W with the relevant 
information about the charges levied by the funds on his investments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
LGT Vestra LLP. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman