DRN-4386028
The complaint
Mr T complains the recommendation made by Severn Financial Services Limited (Severn)
to set up an EU Open Annuity in 2011 was unsuitable and has resulted in financial loss.
What happened
The investigator has issued a detailed view. The summary of the background Ive included 
here is largely taken from that view. 
Mr T, an existing client, met with Severns adviser in early 2006 to discuss retirement income 
options. In February 2006 Severn recommended that Mr T purchase an Open Annuity using 
£400,000 from an existing drawdown plan with Norwich Union which had a balance of 
around £654,000. 
In 2011 Severn advised Mr T to invest a further £270,000 in an EU Open Annuity. The initial 
fees were approximately £25,000 which included transferring to and out of a Qualifying 
Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), establishment of a trust, set up of the EU 
Open Annuity with London & Colonial (L&C) and Severns fee. 
In summary, Mr Ts existing drawdown plans with James Hay and Zurich were transferred 
into a QROPS. The QROPS was then used to purchase the EU Open Annuity with L&C. 
Similar to the Open Annuity Mr T had earlier purchased, a preference share was purchased 
and held within an offshore trust with Marlborough Trustees Limited. The preference share 
was connected to an offshore Canada Life Premiere account which held Mr Ts underlying 
investments. Upon Mr Ts death, the trust could return the remaining funds to the UK, but 
this would trigger a tax charge, or the trust could loan money to Mr Ts beneficiaries at a rate 
of 4% pa. The trustees could then write off the loan on the death of the beneficiary.
After discussion, Severn confirmed Mr Ts attitude to risk with regards to the EU Open 
Annuity was low to medium. The following investments were recommended: 
10% Cash
20% Meteor Senior Life Settlements Fund 
20% Axiom Legal Financing Fund
50% Williams de Broe (now Investec) (split 13% balanced, 13% cautious, 
12% growth and 12% international growth) 
Rebating commission and an enhanced allocation of units meant the initial fees were largely 
offset. But there were ongoing fees:  
Canada Life: Quarterly administration fee which Severn says is currently £283.54 or about 
1.08% pa
L&C: Annual fee of 0.75% subject to a minimum of £3,000
Severn: Annual adviser charge currently around 0.97% pa
Mr T retired at the end of June 2013. In 2014 he raised queries with Severn about what had 
happened to his investments, the returns and why the initial value of the EU Open Annuity 
was £14,000 less than hed expected and when he thought all charges had been deducted. 
He was disappointed with the way his investments had been handled and expressed 
concern as to how long the money would last. In September 2014 Severn responded to the 
concerns Mr T had raised. 
In early 2017 Mr T expressed dissatisfaction with the fees being deducted. He said for the 
EU Open Annuity his gross annual income was around £11,000 yet the annual renewal fee 
was about £5,100 with an Income Instalment Fee of £192  so approximately 50% of his 
gross annual income. The position with the Open Annuity hed bought in 2006 was more 
sensible as the annual gross income was around £17,000 with a renewal charge of £2,600, 
so roughly 15% of the gross annual income. 
There was correspondence between Mr T and Severn about the charges and why Severn 
considered the advice given to have been in Mr Ts best interests. On 25 March 2022 Mr T 
wrote to Severn raising a number of concerns about the advice hed received in connection 
with the two Annuity contracts. He said the fees were high and he sought an explanation of 
all the charges. He also wanted to know why the pensions now fell within his estate for 
inheritance tax purposes and why hed been sold what was considered a sophisticated 
investment product based offshore.
Severn issued a final response letter on 15 July 2022 saying the complaint had been raised 
outside the time limits because Mr T wouldve been aware from the annual statements of the 
fees that were charged and that the investments were held offshore.
Mr T referred his complaint to us. It was investigated by one of our investigators. He agreed 
that the complaint about the advice given in 2006 had been made too late. But he said we 
could consider the complaint about the 2011 recommendation to transfer Mr Ts existing 
drawdown plans to the EU Open Annuity. The investigator said that was unsuitable. In 
summary the investigators reasons for upholding the complaint were: 
Mr Ts objectives and priorities as noted in Severns Financial Planning Report of 17 
February 2011 were that he was keen to protect his death benefits for his family and 
pass on any residual fund value with the least tax charged, whilst allowing flexible 
income during his lifetime. The EU Open Annuity broadly met these objectives. But 
the structure and implementation were complex as were the fees involved. Mr T 
didnt fully understand the sophisticated nature of the product and the charges. 
The full costs werent explained clearly enough. The report mentions various costs at 
different points throughout the report, rather than giving a full summary of all the 
charges in a clear format. It wouldve been difficult for Mr T to have fully understood 
all the charges and their effect. 
But, even if the charges had been made clear, that didnt mean the advice was 
suitable. The primary purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement. The 
two drawdown plans which were moved into the EU Open Annuity already offered 
flexible income and investment choice. 
Mr T had already invested a large sum in the Open Annuity hed taken out in 2006. 
Both Annuities came with high charges. The underlying investments had to perform 
better to overcome the effect of the higher charges. Recommending that Mr T switch 
the bulk of his remaining pension plans into the EU Open Annuity meant the vast 
majority of Mr Ts pension provision was subject to higher than normal costs. 
The rationale that 55% tax would be saved was based on the assumption that the 
charges and income drawn were sustainable and wouldnt erode the fund value. But 
there was a strong possibility that any future benefit could diminish over time while 
still incurring fees. And, although the option to avoid the 55% tax charge on Mr Ts 
death wouldve been attractive, Mr T and his wife already had two Whole of Life insurance policies in place to help with IHT (inheritance tax). 
The report mentioned fluctuating fund values and drawing a high income. But it didnt 
go far enough in explaining the future potential consequences and that, the longer 
the policy remained in force, the longer the higher fees would be payable and the 
more unlikely that the investments would consistently outperform the higher fees and 
the income drawn. The fund value would reduce, so lessening the potential benefit of 
avoiding the 55% tax charge, which as only on lump sum death benefits  if Mr T 
predeceased his wife, she could draw any remaining funds as an income subject to 
income tax or purchase an annuity. 
The ability to avoid the 55% tax charge wouldve been attractive to Mr T. But hed 
had in place a similar product since 2006 which was also subject to high charges. 
Exposing virtually all of his pension savings to such high cost products in order to try 
to mitigate a future tax charge on an unknown value wasnt in his best interests. 
From the report it seemed, on Mr Ts death, the offshore trust could return the 
remaining capital to the UK, but this would trigger a tax charge. Or the trust could 
loan money back to the beneficiary at a rate of 4% pa to avoid the tax charge. So, 
even after Mr Ts death, if the policy was used to avoid tax charges, and assuming 
the fund hadnt by hen been depleted, given that Mr T wanted to maximise his 
income from the plan, the costs would still continue for the beneficiary. 
There was no need to make any decision at the time. Mr T was 68. He was still in 
good health and, under the legislation at the time, wasnt required to purchase an 
annuity until age 77. Mr T had said he wasnt actively seeking more beneficial death 
benefits and it was Severn whod approached him to discuss it. Details of the product 
launch had been emailed to Severn shortly before the recommendation in 2011 
seemed to suggest that what Mr T had said mightve been the case. 
The investigator also considered the investment recommendations were unsuitable for Mr T. 
Severn classed him as having a low to medium attitude to risk for the EU Open Annuity. But 
Severn recommended he invest 20% in each of the Meteor Senior Life Settlements fund 
(Meteor) and the Axiom Legal Financing fund (Axiom). Both were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS) that didnt afford the same investor protections as regulated 
schemes. The regulator has rules in place concerning UCIS in that they can only be 
marketed to certain categories of investors such as certified high net worth (HNW) 
individuals, sophisticated investors and existing UCIS investors. Severn had said Mr T was a 
HNW individual although no evidence of that classification had been provided. But, in any 
event, that didnt automatically make the investments suitable for him.
The Meteor fund is a traded life settlements fund. It invested in the life assurance policies of 
US citizens with the aim of benefitting from insurance pay outs made on the deaths of the 
original policyholders. It wasnt a mainstream investment, it was specialist and speculative. 
Complex calculations were required to estimate how long the policyholders would likely live. 
If these calculations proved to be incorrect, the liquidity of the fund could suffer and 
significant losses could occur.
The Axiom fund was also a specialist fund that invested in a very specific field. It was set up
to provide funding to law firms pursuing no-win no-fee claims. The fund was subject to 
various risks including liquidity, trading and credit risk. It wasnt regulated within the UK and 
not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Risk and reward are 
inextricably linked  the higher the risk, the higher the potential reward. The Axiom fund was 
marketed as offering expected returns of up to 11% pa which was considerably higher than 
would be expected from an investment recommended as suitable for a low to medium risk 
investor.The then regulators 2010 UCIS: Good and Poor Practice report cited, as an example of 
good practice, where a firm restricted UCIS to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. But Severn recommended 40% of the EU Open Annuity be invested into 
UCIS.
The investigator went on to set out what Severn needed to do to put things right for Mr T.  
Severn didnt agree with the investigators view. Ive summarised Severns main comments:
Mr T was clearly a HNW client  he had total assets of £3.48 million. His holding in 
the Axiom fund was a very small percentage (3%) of his portfolio. It was held for less 
than 12 months and sold for a profit of 6.25%. The Meteor fund represented 2% of 
his portfolio. He couldve had higher exposure to UCIS, taking into account his other 
assets. They didnt contain anything higher risk and offset the UCIS, bringing things 
back to low to medium risk. The other investments were held in mixed portfolios. The 
Investec holdings are managed by a relative of Mr Ts. 
At meetings in 2006 and 2011 Mr T (and his fellow director) felt the tax charge on 
death of 35% rising to 55% by 2011 was a considerable sum to lose. The Annuities 
were implemented with no requirement to buy an annuity at age 75. It was pointed 
out that the charges would be higher than Mr Ts existing drawdown schemes. As 
had been acknowledged, the charges were largely offset by the commission rebate 
and extra allocation. And the existing drawdown policies fees ceased on transfer. 
The EU Open Annuity was brought back to the UK but taxed at capital gains rate 
which was much less than 55%. 
Mr T wasnt in good health. Hed taken out life cover via Severn in 2002 with 
premiums rated by 30% for reasons not revealed by the insurer to Severn. Life 
assurance was always Severns first consideration to provide for early death. 
About the fund value being depleted, in 2013 a meeting was held with Mr T and the 
relative who managed his Investec funds. Mr T asked, as he was retiring, where 
income should be taken from.
Mr T was told, in 2019, that, due to changes to IHT allowances and other IHT plans 
taken out in 2012/201, he could cancel one of the two joint life policies. The 
surrender value would be as much as hed paid in over the life of the plan and hed 
save premiums of around £6,000 pa. Sadly Mrs T died in November 2020. As a 
result the surrender value increased by some £100,000. Mr T decided the policy was 
worth keeping for the £6,000 pa cost. So, although he was unhappy with the 
premiums, when given the chance to cancel one policy and get a £250,000 surrender 
payment, he declined to do so.
Mrs T couldve drawn the remaining fund from the drawdown schemes after tax as an 
income subject to income tax or to invest the capital to purchase an annuity, also 
taxed. Severn maintained neither of those options wouldve been preferred to a lump 
sum with little or no tax to pay.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive mentioned the 2006 advice largely by way of background above because, in looking at 
the later advice in 2011, its relevant to take into account that Mr T already had an Open 
Annuity. But in the jurisdiction decision I issued on 30 October 2023 I explained, for the 
reasons I set out, why we couldnt consider a complaint about the 2006 recommendation.Mr T was understandably very disappointed that my view was that we were unable to 
consider the Open Annuity that he purchased on Severns advice in 2006, which was the 
larger investment. He said Severns reply, when he raised concerns about fund values and 
charges, was invariably that investments could go down as well as up and that he should 
hold tight. As a layman hed put his trust in Severn. Between 2006 and 2011 he didnt know 
that his pension arrangements werent run of the mill. He wouldnt have known that 
something was wrong with the advice just because the valuations he received showed a 
falling fund value. It was only when he appointed a new adviser that he became aware of the 
true costs of the contracts and that moving UK pension funds to a QROPS wasnt common 
practice. 
Were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a complaint, 
up to and until we issue a final decision. So Ive reviewed the jurisdiction decision I issued on 
30 October 2023 and against the background of Mr Ts further comments.  
I accept what Mr T says about not knowing his arrangements were unusual, complex and 
expensive until he changed advisers. But, as well as considering when he actually became 
aware he had cause for complaint, I also have to consider when he ought reasonably to 
have become aware. I still think the statements for the Open Annuity, which showed the fund 
value had fallen considerably, along with the income that he could take, were such that 
reasonably ought to have prompted him to think about if the advice to take out the Open 
Annuity in 2006 had been suitable for him. As Ive said, a consumer doesnt need to know 
the full grounds of any complaint  just that something may have gone wrong. Fluctuations in 
fund values may be as a result of adverse investment conditions. But unexpected falls or 
losses may signal an issue with the investment itself and whether its performed as the 
consumer had been led to expect. As would charges that are higher than the consumer had 
been led to believe would apply. 
Having looked at things again, I still think a complaint about the 2006 advice has been made 
too late and for the reasons I set out in my jurisdiction decision. So Im only considering if the 
EU Open Annuity which Severn recommended in 2011 was unsuitable for Mr T. I share the 
investigators view that it wasnt suitable and for the reasons he gave which Ive summarised 
above. I dont have much to add to what the investigator said.
Severn says the Axiom and Meteor funds represented very low percentages (3% and 2% 
respectively) of Mr Ts overall portfolio/wealth. Severn suggested it would be appropriate for 
us to comment on that before any final decision was issued. But, as the investigator has 
explained to Severn, we wouldnt always respond to each and every point a business or a 
consumer may make during the course of our investigation or in response to an 
investigators view. Well consider all the arguments that have been raised but generally well 
focus on what we see as key. 
Where, as here, an investigator has issued a view upholding the complaint which isnt 
accepted and so the matter is referred to an ombudsman to decide, the ombudsman will 
consider everything afresh, including whats been said in response to the investigators view. 
But if the ombudsman isnt persuaded by those arguments and agrees with the investigators 
view and the reasons given by the investigator as to why the complaint should be upheld, 
the ombudsman will generally issue a final decision. 
That said, the investigator did indicate to Severn why he didnt think the point Severn had 
raised changed anything. Mr T had specified he wanted to take a low to medium attitude to 
risk with this particular investment  the EU Open Annuity. The two UCIS funds represented 
40% of the underlying funds for the EU Open Annuity which the investigator considered was 
more risk than Mr T had indicated he was prepared to take with this particular investment. 
So, even if taking into account Mr Ts overall wealth, the proportion of UCIS investment might be low, these funds represented more risk than Mr T was prepared to take in 
connection with his EU Open Annuity. I agree with that. 
The fact that the Axiom fund returned a profit doesnt change that or make the investment 
suitable. It doesnt mean the complaint wont be upheld, just that the unsuitable advice hasnt 
resulted in any (or a reduced) financial loss. If the Axiom fund actually made a profit, I dont 
see it would be in Severns interests to exclude it and when the return on the investment will 
be reflected in the redress calculation and so offset against any losses. 
The investigator referred to rules which restrict the marketing or promotion of UCIS and 
which were in place in 2011, although theyve since been tightened up. Essentially UCIS 
could only lawfully be promoted to certain types of investor and subject to certain conditions 
being met. HNW investors were a category of investor who were exempt from the 
restrictions on promotion. I dont disagree that Mr T appears to have qualified as a HNW 
investor. But I think the point the investigator was making is that we havent seen anything to 
show that Mr T signed the HNW declarations that were required when promoting a UCIS. 
These were in prescribed form and set out, amongst other things, that the investor may lose 
significant rights, including not being able to complain to this service or seek compensation 
from FSCS in connection with such investments. 
I havent seen any such statements signed by Mr T. But my decision here doesnt turn on 
whether Severn complied with the formalities before promoting UCIS to Mr T. Ive focused 
instead on whether the recommendation to invest in Axiom and Meteor were suitable. And, 
to be clear, we can consider a complaint about advice to invest in UCIS as, although the 
investment is unregulated, an adviser providing a recommendation to invest in UCIS will be 
carrying on the regulated activity of advising on investments. 
I agree with the investigator that the underlying funds recommended for the EU Open 
Annuity were unsuitable. They didnt match the low to medium level of risk Mr T had said he 
wanted to take in connection with the EU Open Annuity. Although the exact degree of risk 
will vary from UCIS to UCIS, they are generally considered as a higher risk investment as 
they arent subject to the requirements that apply to authorised investment schemes in terms 
of their investment and borrowing powers and how they are run. They are often speculative, 
specialist investments in unusual assets with limited or no track record. A holding of 40% in 
UCIS was in my view too high for a medium to low risk investor. 
But, and leaving aside the unsuitability of the underlying funds, I think the product itself  the 
EU Open Annuity  was unsuitable anyway. 
Mr T wanted flexible income during his lifetime. Death benefits were also important to Mr T. 
He, like many other investors, wanted to protect his pension so that any residual fund could 
be passed on after his death to his family with the least tax charged. The EU Open Annuity 
broadly met those objectives. I note here Severns comment about it doing what it said on 
the tin. But that doesnt mean it mustve been suitable for Mr T. 
Severns arguments that the EU Open Annuity was suitable for Mr T centre on the perceived 
improved death benefits and tax mitigation. The possibility of avoiding a 55% tax charge 
wouldve been attractive to Mr T. Its natural to want any family members to be taken care of 
and that any tax charges are avoided so as to maximise what can be passed on. But death 
benefits arent the only consideration. The primary aim of a pension arrangement is to 
provide an income in retirement. It isnt a legacy planning tool as such. Although what will 
happen on death, including any tax liabilities, will be a consideration, in most cases, it 
shouldnt be the key driver. I note here what Severn has said about Mr Ts health being poor. And which might mean 
that death benefits were of particular importance to him. But the personal financial 
questionnaire (fact find) completed on 17 February 2011 records Mr Ts state of health as 
good. The suitability letter also says Mr T is in good health. I dont know if there was any 
particular issue in 2002 when the life assurance policy was taken out. But I dont think 
Severn can point to health concerns to justify the recommendation when Severns advice in 
2011 was given on the basis that Mr T didnt have any health issues. In my view, the 
importance of minimising tax charges on death has been overstated as a reason for 
recommending the EU Open Annuity.  
The recommended solution was complex and involved a QROPS, Offshore Trust, the EU 
Open Annuity and an Offshore Bond. The suitability report noted that the charges were 
considerably higher compared to Mr Ts existing UK income withdrawal plans. Like the 
investigator I dont think the charges were particularly clearly set out and involved reading 
various separate documents. Although the initial charges were largely offset by the 
commission rebated and enhanced allocation, going forwards, Mr Ts fund would be subject 
to higher charges than those that applied to his existing drawdown arrangements and which 
already provided a mechanism for Mr T to take income flexibly. The higher charges would 
impact on the growth that needed to be achieved to avoid depleting the fund. In that event 
the benefits of the lower tax charges on death would be diluted or even negated. 
The position was compounded by the fact that Mr T already had a similar product in place 
although it seems that the charges for the Open Annuity were lower. Nevertheless the 
combined effect was that a significant portion of Mr Ts retirement provision was exposed to 
higher charging arrangements. Im not persuaded that the aim of mitigating further tax 
charges justified the higher charges that Mr T would incur year on year. Or that such a 
complex solution was really necessary and, over the longer term, sustainable. 
Severn has referred to a meeting in 2013 with Mr T and the relative who managed his 
Investec funds. I think Severns position is that it advised Mr T to take an income from his 
ISA but the fund manager, who isnt a financial adviser, said to take it from the pension. Im 
not sure as to Severns point here and if Severn is saying that any depletion in the pension 
fund was due to acting against Severns advice. I dont agree and I dont think this impacts 
on the suitability or otherwise of the recommendation to take out the EU Open Annuity and 
on which Severn knew Mr T would be reliant for income. As to the fact that Mr T chose not to 
cancel the life policy, it may be that, by 2020, Mr T thought the policy now offered more 
value for money and so decided to retain it. Again Im not sure this has much to do with the 
advice given in 2011. 
Im upholding the complaint. For the reasons Ive indicated, the EU Open Annuity wasnt 
suitable for Mr T. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation it to put Mr T, as far as possible, in the position hed 
probably be in now if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr T shouldve retained his 
previous arrangements with his existing drawdown providers. Ive adopted the redress 
suggested by the investigator and which is based on the actual value of Mr Ts EU Open 
Annuity compared to what his funds wouldve been worth if hed remained with his previous 
providers. If those providers cant provide notional fund values then the benchmark Ive 
specified should be used as set out below.
To compensate Mr T fairly Severn Financial Services Limited must:Compare the performance of Mr Ts investment with the notional values if it had remained 
with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional values, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional values are greater than the actual values, theres a 
loss and compensation is payable. 
Compensation should be calculated as at the date of my final decision. 
Ive made an award for interest at 8% simple pa from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment if compensation isnt paid within the period (42 days) Ive specified. Wed 
expect Severn Financial Services Limited to undertake the calculations promptly on receipt 
of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of my final decision. But I recognise that Severn 
Financial Services Limited may be dependent on information from third parties  Mr Ts 
previous pension providers. Ive allowed extra time for that. And, where a notional value from 
a previous provider is the only outstanding item required to undertake the redress 
calculation, that period of time may be added to the 42 day period in respect of which 
interest wont apply.  
If theres a loss, Severn Financial Services Limited must pay into Mr Ts pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If compensation cant be paid into Mr Ts pension plan, it should be paid direct to him. But 
had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore 
the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. The investigator said in his view that it 
was reasonable to assume Mr T was likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if hed have been able to take a 
tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15%. Severn Financial Services Limited should confirm with Mr T 
whether in fact he had already taken the full tax free cash sum entitlement prior to the EU 
Open Annuity being put in place. 
The investigator also said, if Severn Financial Services Limited or Mr T disputed the 
assumption about Mr Ts taxpaying status, they should let us know as soon as possible so 
the matter could be clarified as it wouldnt be possible to amend it once a final decision had 
been issued. Neither party commented. But weve asked Mr T and hes confirmed hes a 
basic rate tax payer so any redress paid direct to Mr T should be on that basis.  
Severn Financial Services Limited should also pay Mr T £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him and regardless of whether or not any financial 
loss has arisen. Mr T has found the situation extremely worrying and is concerned his funds 
may run out during his lifetime, partly due to the high fees hes been subject to.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr T in a clear and simple format.
Investment/portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
L&C EU Open 
AnnuityStill exists  
some Notional 
values from Date of 
transfersDate of my 
final 8% pa 
simple liquid/some 
illiquid fundsprevious 
providersdecision interest if 
redress isnt 
paid within 
42 days of 
notification 
of Mr Ts 
acceptance 
of my final 
decision
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, 
Severn Financial Services Limited should take ownership of any illiquid investments within 
the portfolio by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
paid should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Severn Financial Services Limited is unable to purchase any illiquid investment the value 
of that investment should be assumed to be nil when arriving at the actual value of the 
portfolio. Severn Financial Services Limited may wish to require that Mr T provides an 
undertaking to pay Severn Financial Services Limited any amount he may receive from that
investment in the future. The undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Severn Financial Services Limited will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
notional values
These are the values of Mr Ts investments had they remained with the previous providers 
until the end date. Severn Financial Services Limited should request that the previous 
providers calculate these values. 
Any withdrawal from the L&C EU Open Annuity should be deducted from the notional value
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep the calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
all those payments are totalled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Severn Financial Services 
Limited will need to determine a fair value for Mr Ts investment instead, using this 
benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). 
Mr T wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. If the 
previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, I consider the Index Ive 
specified is a fair measure. Its made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, 
mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although its called income index, the mix 
and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison, given Mr Ts circumstances and risk attitude.The adjustments Ive set out above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the 
benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
The EU Open Annuity only exists because of possible illiquid assets and the fact it
cannot be encashed or surrendered. The fees will continue until Mr T dies, so, given
his age, and to provide certainty to all parties, if the EU Open Annuity cant be encashed or 
surrendered, I think its fair that Severn Financial Services Limited pays Mr T an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper, administration and adviser fees, based on 
him continuing to draw the same percentage of income taken within the previous year to 
date.
Ive made a formulaic award and I dont know what loss, if any, the calculation will show.  
Where, as here, I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £170,000 plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs I think are 
appropriate. If I think fair compensation is more than £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as Ive set out above. My decision is that Severn Financial Services Limited 
should pay Mr T the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £170,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £170,000, I recommend that Severn Financial Services Limited pays Mr T the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Severn Financial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Severn Financial Services Limited mut redress Mr T as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman