DRN-3766321
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded funds he lost to two investment 
scams.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I agree that Mr P sent a large, uncharacteristic payment that warranted an intervention 
from Barclays in early August 2019. While he had sent other large payments from his 
account, the second payment he sent to this scam was still unusual looking at his overall 
account history.
Mr P says that an intervention call wouldve unravelled this scam. Hes explained the 
financial advisor he was using wasnt genuine  and this wouldve been uncovered by an 
intervention call. However Im not persuaded this is the case.
Mr P has provided us with very detailed testimony which sets out how he became 
involved in this scam and the research he did into the firm. Hes explained he spent 
hours on the scam companys website and that it appeared to have a good, successful 
track record. So he had done a level of research into the firm. Mr P has also said he 
hadnt invested before this opportunity, but I can see on his statements that hed made a 
number payments to a genuine cryptocurrency firm prior to when hes told us he first 
invested in this scam. 
I must bear in mind the close relationship Mr Ps described he had with the person who 
introduced him to this scam and the impact this would likely have had on whether he 
would have still gone ahead with the payments. Its evident that Mr P had a professional 
relationship with the introducer/scammer, but then ultimately built a friendship with the 
scammers and had a significant degree of trust in them.
With all this in mind, its fair to say that Mr P regarded the scammers as trustworthy and 
was relying on their relationship when venturing into this scheme. This is significant 
when coupled with the research Mr P did do and that I cant see from my own research 
conclusive information wouldve been available to Mr P to deter him from the scam at the 
time.
The testimony Mr Ps representatives provided also says Mr P advised them he was 
given a cover story by the scammers. And that the scammers frequently used negative 
language about banks. So this also builds the picture that he was unlikely to act on a 
warning by the bank, considering he was very trusting of the scammers, and they were 
telling him his bank was not on his side. 
As I see it, having a close acquaintance promoting something and giving assurances that 
they themselves had had success in it, together with independent research not 
unearthing anything particularly disconcerting, would make it more likely than not that 
Mr P wouldve continued with the investment even if Barclays had provided him with a 
general scam warning on the call. And as Mr P has told us he was investing in 
cryptocurrency, formal regulations around this type of investment were, and remain, very 
limited.
Mr P went on to send a separate payment to a different investment scam in January 
2020, but this wasnt out of line with his normal account activity by this stage. So I dont 
consider this payment warranted an intervention by Barclays. 
Mr P didnt raise the scam payments to Barclays within the time limits required to raise a 
chargeback claim. So I dont consider Barclays missed any recovery opportunities in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman