DRN-2642828
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in April 2004 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs B in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost £1.50 per £100 of the amount owed on her card each 
month. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs B was off work until 
she either returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs B mainly told us that she wasnt aware she was taking out PPI and she thought she was 
just signing up for the store card and agreeing to the interest. Mrs B told us that the shop 
assistant rushed through the application and just told her to sign on the line and where to tick 
and Mrs B wasnt aware she was signing up for PPI.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Bs store card application.
Mrs B has signed in the section headed, in bold type: Protecting your Account next to 
where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my 
Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account that Mrs B mentioned that the shop assistant directed her where to sign 
without explaining anything or asking her if she wanted PPI. 
And I dont know what (if anything) was said to Mrs B about the PPI. But I think it wouldve 
been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs B to say if she wanted to have PPI added 
on. 
Mrs B also signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs B wouldve first read through 
anything she was asked to sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to 
me that by signing the form Mrs B was indicating that she agreed with the information on the 
form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
Ive no doubt that Mrs B feels certain about everything shes told us. But what Mrs B says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just based on the way she 
says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. And I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA 
didnt make Mrs B aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account 
without her consent. 
On balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs B aware that she had a choice about buying 
the PPI and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs B. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs B enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Mrs B was entitled to 6 weeks full sick pay followed by 6 weeks half pay from her employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs B was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs B was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs B with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This same benefit was also available to Mrs B in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs B significantly better protection than she couldve 
relied on getting through her employer. 
Mrs B hasnt shown me that she had any other reliable ways she couldve depended on to 
make her store card monthly repayments if she wasnt able to work 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Mrs B useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But, based on all the information I've seen 
and been told, it looks like Mrs B couldve taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. 
The policy exclusions and limitations didnt affect Mrs B. 
So I dont think its likely that having more information about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mrs B off taking out the PPI.I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs B clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. So it looks 
like Mrs B was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form.
It doesnt look like paying for the PPI was a problem for her when she took it out  so thats 
not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy at no cost 
at all within the first 30 days  and she couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no 
extra cost if she decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay for each month.
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that what I've said will disappoint Mrs B but I hope that setting out the reasons 
as I've done will help her understand how I've reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman