DRN-3635724
The complaint
Mr H complains about the repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to his car following a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants his van fully repaired, an apology and 
compensation. 
What happened
Aviva took Mr Hs van for repairs following an incident. Mr H was unhappy with the repairs 
and Aviva carried out rectification work. It also carried out repairs to meet MOT 
requirements. It said that Mr H could arrange an independent engineers inspection of the 
van and it would pay for this. And it apologised to Mr H and offered him £150 compensation 
for not completing the repairs correctly the first time. But Mr H remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
had done more than it was required to in order to meet Mr Hs expectations. She thought it 
had put things right and completed the repairs. She thought £150 compensation was 
sufficient recognition for the issues. And she thought it was for Mr H to arrange an 
independent inspection if he so desired. 
Mr H replied that the van had to be returned due to defective steering. He said Aviva had lied 
about the parts fitted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H felt frustrated that his van wasnt repaired fully on the first 
occasion. When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect 
it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
From what I can see, Aviva has now completed all the rectification work that was required to 
repair the accident-related damage. The bumper has been replaced, rather then repaired. A 
dent in the chassis has been rectified with a new part. An agreement was reached on how 
best to replace the side steps. 
The van failed its MOT due to, from what I can see, non-accident-related damage. Aviva 
wasnt required by the policys terms and conditions to repair this damage. But I can see that 
it did so, and the van then passed its MOT. 
Mr H wanted a list of the replacement parts Aviva used, and I can see that this was sent to 
him. From what I can see, these were provided by the manufacturer. In any case, the 
policys terms and conditions guarantee repairs and the parts used. 
Mr H was unhappy with the level of service provided by the garage. I can see that Aviva has 
apologised for the need for rectification work and it has also apologised for the level of 
service provided to Mr H by its repairers. 
Mr H wanted an independent engineer to inspect the repairs, and Aviva agreed to pay for 
this. It gave Mr H the options of arranging this himself or it would do so on his behalf. So I 
think Aviva has done enough to accommodate Mr Hs concerns about the repairs done. 
I cant see that an independent engineer has inspected the van yet. Mr H was concerned 
about the vans steering. Aviva said the repairs had been completed and I can see that a 
road test was done. The van also passed its MOT. Without independent expert evidence I 
cant say that the steering is defective due to the accident. So this is something that Mr H 
could have investigated by the independent engineer. 
If further accident-related rectification work is identified by the independent engineer as 
required, I would expect Aviva to arrange and pay for this. 
Mr H was provided with a courtesy vehicle whilst repairs were carried out. After the 
rectification work was completed, Aviva told him the van was roadworthy and he should 
collect it, or he would be responsible for storage. Mr H said hed lost work due to being 
without the van. But I cant see that this is covered by his policy. I think Aviva provided a 
courtesy vehicle in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
The repairs took some time to complete satisfactorily. But Mr H was kept mobile during this 
time. Aviva offered Mr H £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by it not 
completing the repairs fully the first time. It also waived his policy excess. I think this 
sufficiently recognises the impact its level of service had on Mr H. So I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman