DRN-2264454
The complaint
Mr D complains that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd didnt refund his deposit when he 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund and compensation for the stress 
caused.
What happened
Mr D took out a policy through Be Wiser, but he inputted the wrong purchase date for his 
car. Mr D accepted the quote he was offered, with the wrong date, and called Be Wiser to 
confirm his details. The incorrect date was then found, and this led to a premium increase. 
Mr D was unhappy with this and he said he told Be Wiser that he wanted to cancel, on that 
same day. But it took Be Wiser two weeks to do this. It said no refund was due because the 
deposit covered his time on cover and two cancellation charges.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He saw evidence that 
Be Wiser had provided the increased quote and Mr D had asked to cancel his policy. He 
thought Be Wiser should then have acted to cancel the policy. So he thought it should 
charge Mr D for his one day on cover and the brokers cancellation charge. He also thought 
it should pay Mr D £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused him. 
Be Wiser replied that Mr D had benefited from a days cover. It said it wasnt responsible for 
the insurers cancellation charge, but the insurer agreed to waive this. It didnt think 
compensation was warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its agreed that Mr D inputted the wrong purchase date for his car when he applied for 
a policy online. But this was corrected on the same day and I think its now agreed that Mr D 
told Be Wiser that he wanted to cancel and didnt accept the new quote. He confirmed this 
by email the following day. So I think his cancellation should be from that date. And I think 
Mr D should pay the insurer for his one day on cover, £0.90. 
We think that when a consumer cancels a policy during the cooling off period, then only one 
cancellation charge should be applied. The insurer has agreed to waive its cancellation 
charge. So I think its fair and reasonable for Be Wiser to charge Mr D its £23 cancellation 
fee. I think this is clearly set out in its Terms of Business which Mr D would have agreed to 
when he applied for the policy online. 
Mr D paid a deposit of £43.01. The insurers charge for one day on cover was £0.90 and Be 
Wisers cancellation fee was £23.00. So Mr D was due a refund of £19.11 from his deposit. I 
can see that Be Wiser has agreed with this calculation. The insurer has already refunded 
£10.00, leaving £9.11 outstanding. 
But Be Wiser doesnt agree that compensation for Mr D is warranted. It says that he inputted 
the incorrect information and he ended the call before it could go through all its cancellation 
script. I agree that the initial mistake was Mr Ds, but I think Be Wisers level of service when 
Mr D wanted to cancel caused him inconvenience and stress:
Be Wiser said it hadnt provided a further quote to Mr D, but it evidently had as Mr D had 
an email of this and Be Wiser included the amount in its response to his complaint.
Mr D had to provide evidence to Be Wiser that hed asked for his policy to be cancelled 
when it couldnt locate emails from him.
The policy wasnt cancelled when Mr D asked, but some two weeks later and I think this 
caused Mr D worry and stress. 
The investigator recommended that Be Wiser should pay Mr D £50 compensation for this 
level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in 
similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd to provide Mr D with a further refund of £9.11 and 
to pay him £50.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Be 
Wiser Insurance Services Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman