DRN-3661874
The complaint
Mr Ls representative has complained, on his behalf, that CST Wealth Management Limited 
(CST) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr L joined the BSPS in December 2004. His projected benefits were:
An annual pension of £15,712 pa at age 65 or a reduced pension of £10,699 pa and 
a tax free lump sum of £71,330.
An annual pension of £10,057 pa at age 57 or a reduced pension of £7,280 pa and a 
tax free lump sum of £48,539.
Death benefits were a return of member contributions, valued at £32,778 at the time 
of the transfer, a 50% spouses pension, and dependants pensions up to age 23.
Members were provided with personal information and illustrations in October 2017 to help 
them make their choices.
As the scheme was closing, the funds could be transferred to either:
The BSPS 2 which was being proposed
The PPF
A PPP or SIPP
A defined benefit cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) quotation was issued on 11 August 
2017 outlining what benefits Mr L had with the now closed scheme. The transfer value was 
£234,105.38, however this then increased to £241,739.24. The date of leaving the scheme 
was recorded as 31 March 2017. He had 12 years and 6 months of pensionable service. The 
scheme allowed for early retirement at age 55 with actuarial reductions.
Mr L was sent a fact find form and risk questionnaire on 18 July 2017 and asked to
complete as much as possible and return them. These documents were returned and noted 
his circumstances at the time of advice as follows:
He was 41, married, with children aged 12 and 16.
He was employed earning approximately £39,000 pa including overtime and 
bonuses.
He owned his property valued at £120,000, with a mortgage of £68,000
He had £5,500 in unsecured loans and £1,200 in credit card balances
He had no other investments apart from making payments of £50 per month into a 
deposit account
He was a member of the employers defined contribution scheme
He was in excellent health
His plans for retirement were to go travelling
He had £100 monthly disposable income
Both he and his wife had death in service benefits
The Dynamic Risk Profiler recorded that Mr L had never invested in any investments,
including cash based investments. However he did answer when asked about investment
experience that he understood the basics - but still wanted some things explained. There 
were a mixture of answers about his attitude to risk, as follows:
Compared to the average person I would say I take more risks  Disagree.
I have been extremely cautious in my past financial investments  Agree.
When I am faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the possible 
losses than the probable gains  Agree.
I would rather get a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about my investments  
Strongly Agree.
There was also a handwritten note as follows:
Fear of pension fund plummeting. Not GamblingMr L was rated as having a risk profile of 6 out of 10, where 1 was low risk and 10 was 
high risk  this equated to a high medium categorisation.
Within the Pension Transfer Questionnaire completed on 4 September 2017, Mr L selected 
the following statement under risk and reward:
I do not consider it appropriate to expose my pension benefits to anything other than a 
minimal amount of risk
The Financial Planning Report dated 30 October 2017 did note that Mr L had made
previous investments after receiving advice and was comfortable investing. It was also noted
that there were inconsistencies and it was agreed that it would be best to invest more 
cautiously with regards to the BSPS benefits.
In a document submitted in the business file entitled Key Considerations [Mr L] the
answers given in the risk profiler and questionnaire were noted and with regards to his 
stated desire for a guaranteed income, it was recorded that this was just a preference and 
he realises he could not achieve his goal of early retirement without a transfer.
Mr Ls capacity for loss was categorised as medium based on his intended retirement date 
of 57. The report said that this was in 14 years time. The report recorded that Mr L was
contributing to the defined contribution scheme, that he was in stable employments and that 
there were plans in place to pay debts off by age 50.
The Financial Planning Report also highlighted that Mr L was paying 8% contributions to his 
pension scheme and his employer was contributing an additional 10%. The report
recommended paying in more.
In the final response letter dated 17 December 2021, CST noted that, at age 57, the defined 
contribution plan was likely to have a fund worth £203,766 and at age 65 it was likely to be 
£478,209. This was used to support Mr Ls capacity for loss. It was also noted that Mr L 
expected to inherit £150,000 from his parents, which was also noted by Mr L in the fact find.
A file note dated 4 September 2017 noted that Mr L had met with the adviser as he wished 
to break ties with BSPS and also wanted to transfer the capital so he could afford to retire
early.
The Financial Planning Report dated 30 October 2017 confirmed that Mr L was exploring 
options because:
He would like to retire earlier than the schemes normal retirement age
In the event of his early death, there would be very little to leave as a legacy for his
family other than a return of contributions of £32,778
Taking the scheme benefits at 57 would reduce his retirement income
He would like a sustainable but flexible income of £18,000 net pa
The Financial Planning Report set out the terms of the new BSPS2 scheme and explained 
the income options available and the critical yield and hurdle rate. The hurdle rate showed 
what investment growth return an alternative contract would need in order to purchase a 
level lifetime annuity  but which excluded a spousal pension and escalation.
The report highlighted the following figures which were also provided in more detail in a 
Pension Transfer Report. The table below summarises the critical yields and hurdle rates for 
the BSPS and PPF and the potential income.Pension (and lump 
sum if reduced 
pension selected)Critical Yield Hurdle Rate
BSPS at 65 £15,712 pa 6.83% 3.94%
BSPS at 65 £10,699 pa and 
£71,330 lump sum5.83% 3.38%
BSPS at 57 £10,057 pa 8% 3.2%
BSPS at 57 £7,280 pa and 
£48,539 lump sum6.83% 2.48%
PPF at 65 £14,163 pa 5.73% N/A
PPF at 65 £11,167 pa and 
£74,450 lump sum5.4% N/A
PPF at 57 £10,746 pa 7.63% N/A
PPF at 57 £8,911 pa and 
£59,413 lump sum7.21% N/A
The report contained the following statement in red:
In our opinion these critical yields are not guaranteed to be achievable year on year 
between transfer and your planned retirement age of 57.
A cash-flow model was also produced which calculated that an investment return of 3% 
would be required to mirror the existing scheme benefits until age 101.
The Financial Planning Report gave the following reasons as to why CST recommended that 
Mr L consider transferring:
A transfer would become a substantial family asset.
Because of gilt prices current transfer values were high.
A transfer offered total flexibility as to how and when Mr L would withdraw his 
pension.
Pension flexibility would allow Mr L to access funds to clear mortgages and/or debts, 
help his children should he wish to do so and generate tax efficient income.
A transfer to a personal arrangement would remove the life expectancy gamble
Mr L could improve tax efficiency with CSTs financial advice within a personal 
arrangement by drip feeding out tax free cash and limiting the pension income to 
match his personal income tax allowance
Mr L had the opportunity within a personal arrangement to defer or avoid any 
potential lifetime allowance tax charge
The SIPP product was recommended as it provided flexibility. A Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM) was recommended as it provided benefits including regular portfolio management 
following an investment mandate.
Brewin Dolphin was recommended as the DFM and the Brewin Dolphin Income Return was 
the recommended strategy as he was categorised as a cautious risk investor.
The charges associated with the transfer were as follows:
Initial product charge £100
Ongoing product charges £250 pa
DFM AMC £0.84% paDFM underlying portfolio charge 0.5% pa (dependent on the assets held)
Initial adviser charge 1% (£2,417)
Ongoing adviser charge 0.5% pa
Within the document entitled Key Considerations [Mr L] it was explained that because Mr L 
was only entitled to £8,911 pa at age 57 he would be in deficit until he and his wife received 
their state pensions. It was therefore considered that the transfer would allow Mr L to front 
load his pension benefits to satisfy his income needs that could be reduced once he and his 
wife were in receipt of their state pensions, Mrs Ls final salary pension and any family future 
family legacies.
Mr L complained to CST in September 2021. CST responded to Mr Ls complaint on 21 
December 2021, declining to uphold it.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
There were inconsistencies in Mr Ls answers to the risk profiling questions, with 
indications that he was concerned about possible losses and that he had a fear of his 
pension fund plummeting. Mr Ls focus seemed to be on receiving a guaranteed 
rate of return.
It was clear that, although Mr L had said he had some previous experience of 
investing, he didnt have a high medium risk rating. The report also reflected this  
recording Mr L as having a more cautious risk attitude. The lowest risk option, which 
would have been suitable for Mr L, was to retain his defined benefits.
CST had said that Mr L couldnt achieve his early retirement goal without transferring, 
but he would have had around £200,000 in defined contributions by age 57. Mr L 
could therefore have used his defined contributions to provide pension benefits, or a 
combination of this and the income provided by the scheme. He didnt need to 
transfer to achieve his objective.
The wording that the critical yields couldnt be guaranteed to be achieved to age 57 
implied that they could be to age 65. But there was no such guarantee.
Mr L may have been concerned about his employer and the prospects for the BSPS, 
but CST should have explained the valuable guaranteed benefits which hed still 
have either through the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.The discount rate was 4.5% pa for the number of years until Mr Ls retirement at age 
65. The regulators standard projections were 2%, 5% and 8% for low, mid and high 
band growth. The required critical yields to match the scheme benefits were therefore 
higher than the discount rate and the regulators lower growth rate projection.
Given this, the opportunity to improve upon the scheme benefits was limited, 
especially given Mr Ls attitude to risk. Although Mr L said he wanted to travel when 
he retired at age 57, with an income of £18,000 pa, these werent fixed objectives at 
the time. And as Mr L was only 42 at the time of the advice, he didnt need to make 
any decision about transferring at that time.
It was also unclear as to whether Mr L would have needed tax free cash when he 
retired. It was anticipated that he would have repaid his debts by then, and so it 
couldnt be known, 15 years in advance, as to whether Mr L would in fact withdraw 
tax free cash.
Flexibility may have been appealing to Mr L, but this didnt constitute sufficient 
reason for him to relinquish valuable guaranteed benefits  and flexibility could have 
been achieved by accessing his defined contributions. By retaining his scheme 
benefits, and either transferring into the BSPS 2 or the PPF, Mr L would have had a 
secure foundation for his pension benefits.
In terms of death benefits, Mr L was described as being in excellent health, and his 
wife would have received a 50% spouses pension, along with a dependants pension 
for his children. Mr L also had death in service benefits of four times his salary. The 
file didnt demonstrate that there was a need for the lump sum death benefits which 
would have been produced by the transfer. And the advice needed to be given in Mr 
Ls best interests rather than providing death benefits for his family.
Mr L wasnt the type of investor who required DFM, and this only added costs to his 
arrangement.
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr L
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ls pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr L, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that CST should pay Mr L £250 in respect of the stress and anxiety that he 
would have been caused over his retirement planning.
Mr Ls representative agreed with the investigators findings, but said that he should be 
explicit about the assumption being in any redress calculation that Mr L would have retired at 
age 65.
It further said, with regard to the notional deduction of income tax, that this assumed that the 
whole amount would have been withdrawn as income. Also, as a result of the advice, Mr L 
was paying unnecessary charges, and so the reduction should only be applied to the redress 
once the part of the redress intended to compensate for the product/adviser charges had 
been disregarded.CST didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, however. Ive read the entirety of its 
submissions, but summarise the main points as follows:
It needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the transfer was suitable, and 
exercise reasonable skill and care in advising Mr L - not provide a guarantee that it 
would work out to be in Mr Ls best financial interests.
In terms of Mr Ls attitude to risk, the adviser correctly identified that he had a more 
cautious attitude than had been determined by the risk profiler, and recommended 
that he invest accordingly, Mr L had himself then elevated that risk in 2019. Mr L had 
also indicated in the pension transfer questionnaire that he was prepared to risk 
some benefit in the hope of good returns.
The defined contribution fund would only provide £13,100 pa from age 57 until Mr L 
was 63, at which point his wife would begin to receive her final salary pension of 
around £9,000 pa. The addition of either the BSPS 2 or PPF income at age 57 
wouldnt have met his income needs.
Disproportionate emphasis had been placed on the critical yield, which was a blunt 
tool, especially given that Mr L didnt intend to replace the guaranteed scheme 
income with annuity income.
It acknowledged that Mr L would have liked a guaranteed rate of return, but he 
couldnt achieve his required level of income by retaining his BSPS benefits. This 
was why he was prepared to take an investment risk. And Mr L would have been 
significantly worse off financially had he transferred either to the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
It had demonstrated that Mr L was almost certainly going to receive a higher pension 
income as a result of the transfer.
It couldnt be known whether the qualifying conditions for the BSPS 2 would be met, 
and a transfer into the PPF would represent a reduction in overall benefits - members 
quite understandably viewed this prospect negatively.
Most people take the tax free cash and, had Mr L done so, the scheme benefits 
wouldnt have supported Mr Ls retirement at age 57.
The harsh environment of the steel industry meant that life expectancies were low. 
The prospect of any remaining pension reverting to the BSPS after death was 
unpalatable to employees. The death benefits in the event of premature death would 
be higher as a result of the transfer, and these would have been important to Mr L 
and his family.
The use of the DFM enabled the management of the sequencing risk and the rapid 
adjustments which might need to be made to the portfolio in the event of market 
shifts.
Mr L made a fully informed decision to transfer. He didnt at any time suggest that his 
circumstances or objectives had been misunderstood, and the risks and 
disadvantages of the transfer were conveyed to him.
There was no evidence that Mr L had suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
transfer.There was no evidence that Mr L would have remained in the scheme and 
transferred to the BSPS had he received different advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator said that the complaint would be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then enquired of Mr Ls representative as to whether, if the complaint was 
upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, 
or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
Mr Ls representative confirmed that he would like any redress to be calculated on the 
existing basis.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CST to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr L.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.
In response, CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an 
ombudsman upheld the complaint.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time CST advised Mr L were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like CST, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, CST 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ls 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    (2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of CSTs advice to Mr L in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
CSTs rationale for transferring
Mr L wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and CST was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, CST could be confident that he would be acting upon 
its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr L and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Ls options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr L would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
CST obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ls objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but I agree that they would 
nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible 
at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.5% pa. And the mid band growth rate set out by the regulator for growth 
assumptions was 5% pa.
The critical yields to both age 65 and 57 (assuming tax free cash was taken), at 5.83% and 
6.83% respectively, exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable, and 
the mid growth rate set out by the regulator  the latter of which might perhaps be a 
reasonable assumption for a medium risk investor (although Mr L was advised to invest in 
a more cautious manner).
From a purely financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of 
the scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the 
guidance was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ls 
best interests.CST itself noted in the suitability report that the critical yield required to match the scheme 
benefits at age 57 werent guaranteed to be achievable. Id go further  given Mr Ls attitude 
to risk, I think it was unlikely that this yield would be achievable, year on year, for the period 
of time until Mr L was 57. And I think the same applies to the required critical yield to match 
them at age 65.
I also agree with the investigators view on the way that section within the suitability report 
was worded  by setting out in bold red font that the critical yield to age 57 couldnt be 
guaranteed, but then remaining silent on that required to age 65, Mr L might reasonably 
have formed the impression that the latter was in fact guaranteed to be, or was at least 
eminently achievable. But given the actual yields required, and Mr Ls attitude to risk, I 
disagree on both counts.
But I think its also worth noting that the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt 
in any case indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. And so Ive then 
considered the overall suitability of the transfer, taking into account other considerations.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that CST did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as CST will be aware, 
risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail 
contained in a recommendation report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice 
suitable. CST needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing 
the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr L.
Id initially say that I do acknowledge that Mr L may have understood the principle of 
risk/reward which would be associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may 
have been discussions around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the 
same process. 
I also think its quite possible that Mr L had a medium risk rating, given his age and number 
of years to retirement. But I also think, given the answers provided in the risk profiling 
exercise, CST was right in recommending that he take a more cautious investment 
approach.
But I dont think Mr L needed to take the risks of transferring his BSPS pension at all to 
achieve his objectives of flexibility of income. As set out by CST, Mr L had joined the 
replacement defined contribution scheme, and so would likely have accrued a significant 
amount of money purchase benefits given the overall contribution rate (if he remained with 
the same employer) by retirement. But other than the state pension, the defined benefits 
accrued through the BSPS were still likely to have been his only source of guaranteed 
income. Through transferring, Mr L was effectively putting all of his eggs  barring the state 
pension - in one money purchase basket.
And I just cant see why Mr L needed to take the associated additional risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr L would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy potentially changing income needs.
But other than concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill address 
further below, its unclear as to why Mr L would have wanted or needed such additional 
flexibility at the cost of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk 
associated with the transfer, and bearing in mind his likely more cautious attitude to risk and 
apparent lack of any similar historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his pension income.
And so, if Mr L wished to retire early (in 15 or so years time), he could do so whilst also 
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. 
But on the specific matter of early retirement, I agree with the investigator that financial 
advice should be more than simple wish fulfilment. And if such a plan isnt credible, then 
the client should be advised of this.
In its response to the investigators view, CST has repeatedly said that Mr L couldnt afford 
to retire at age 57 by taking the scheme benefits at that age  and it may have a point. But 
the most likely course of action which might have enabled him to do so would have been to 
retain his scheme benefits, access his 15 years defined contributions flexibly from whatever 
age from 57 onwards that the pension fund might feasibly have allowed the commencement 
of withdrawals, and then begin taking his BSPS benefits at either the normal retirement age, 
or earlier if required.
And so it wasnt the case that the only way by which Mr L could afford to retire at 57 with the 
income he required was through transferring. The actual level of overall pension benefits 
couldnt feasibly be matched by the transfer (as evidenced by the critical yield), and if Mr L 
accessed his defined contributions pension fund flexibly until his wifes defined benefit 
pension, and both their state pensions, began, Mr L could likely have achieved the required 
level of income he needed and then taken the BSPS benefits as and when that additional 
income was required. 
If, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years left to age 65 
(for example if his circumstances changed)  although I would say that I dont think the 
actual income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any 
case reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr 
L could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr L may then ultimately have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which 
was higher than his actual needs, especially when his and Mrs Ls state pensions began, but 
he could have simply reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his 
family, immediately gift it away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
Mr L may have been willing to accept a measure of risk for the sake of improving his income 
in retirement, and as Ive said above, although Mr L didnt have any particular financial 
experience, I think he may have understood the principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings 
were provided by CST. 
But as Ive also noted above, Mr L was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 24 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 16 by age 57) would likely be derived of the 
defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr L would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the 12 years up to that point Mr L had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of some 
significant value as a foundation of stable, escalating income to hedge against uncertain 
returns in the defined contributions scheme, especially for a cautious-medium risk rated 
individual, and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which was 
loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement (some 15 years before this 
would be even be possible) and concerns around the employer/scheme.And on the particular note of Mr Ls concerns about the employer and the scheme, as with 
others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr L would have been concerned about the 
future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ls concerns around this should have 
been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks 
financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the employer, even if Mr L had 
concerns about it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which had resulted in 
the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity of the 
BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and in fact by the 
point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a 
viable alternative. 
Its fair to say that there were still conditions which still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to 
be established, but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the 
BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I 
think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
And so I think that, had Mr Ls concerns been better managed, a seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr L therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The prospect of Mr Ls accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. 
But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with 
valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in 
fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
Mr Ls plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 15 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 57. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ls retirement  and Mr L would have 
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr L could have achieved a degree of 
flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr L or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether a transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr L to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
Its fair to say that the lump sum death benefits offered by the transfer would likely be more 
beneficial to Mr Ls extended family. 
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ls benefits. Firstly, 
Mrs L would have received a 50% spouses pension in the event of Mr Ls death in 
retirement, and would have received the death in service benefits and the return of Mr Ls contributions had he died before retirement. There was also a dependants pension should 
Mr and Mrs Ls children still be dependent in the event of Mr Ls death. 
Mrs L was also recorded as having her own defined benefit pension provision, along with her 
state pension.
Further, Mr L had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any 
likelihood to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable 
amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
And accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a legacy for the wider family. The recommendation needed to be given 
in the context of Mr Ls best interests.
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire 
to leave a legacy for his family cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr Ls own personal 
requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to leave any such legacy 
should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr L was relinquishing, 
and CST should have advised him that his own financial benefit took priority here.
There was also no suggestion as to why a lump sum, beyond the death in service lump sum 
payment which would be paid if he remained in the same employment, and the value of the 
defined contribution scheme, would have been important to Mr Ls family in the event of his 
death. It seems that debt repayment was scheduled to be completed by age 50. I therefore 
think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave some kind of 
financial legacy, but not essential, and certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr L 
compromising the security of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ls extended 
family by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to transfer and 
lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr L personally.
What should CST have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ls decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr L. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr L to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of CST to
explain to Mr L why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ls scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr L was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr L, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.And Ive noted the following statements in the summary viewpoint section of the suitability 
report in which the supporting reasons for the transfer were set out. One of these was as 
follows:
Benefits including tax free lump sum can be accessed at age 57 as opposed to 65 under 
the existing scheme without penalty.
This is in my view misleading. Although there would have been a reduction in the scheme 
benefits payable at an earlier age, this reflects the longer period over which those benefits 
would likely be payable. And had Mr L begun accessing his PPP benefits early, there would 
have been a commensurate effect on the value of his pension fund in terms of taking early 
withdrawals (and for longer) and the knock on impact on the residual fund and its capacity 
for growth. 
That section also said:
You want to leave a legacy to your wife and family. Any remaining capital balance could be 
inherited by your family should you die at a relatively young age compared to nothing from 
the final salary scheme.
This, again, was misleading. Mrs L wouldnt receive nothing from the scheme. She would 
receive the return of contributions and a 50% guaranteed, escalating, spouses pension for 
the rest of her life.
It further said:
Personal choice to want to flexibly access the fund, which will give you the ability to vary 
your income in line with your lifestyle requirements.
But as set out above, the accrued defined contributions would have likely amply catered for 
this, with the defined benefits then providing a foundation of guaranteed income upon which 
Mr L, as a cautious-medium investor, could rely.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ls
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr L to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 42.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ls concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension, be entirely dependent upon investment 
returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the 
case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.Taking account of Mr Ls circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that CST should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, given that Mr L would have been reliant on the advice 
given to him, he would have followed that advice and not transferred his benefits to the 
SIPP.
Further, as I dont consider that, suitably advised, Mr L would have transferred to the SIPP, I 
dont think I need to consider the investment advice to use DFM once transferred.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr L, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ls options, especially given his attitude to risk, and the future 
benefits available from both the BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure 
to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr L were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of
scheme benefits which would have been available to him. 
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ls attitude to risk with regard to his 
pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a 
successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, CTS 
would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt 
in Mr Ls best interests. 
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr L would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ls pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement.The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ls recorded objectives was the ability to retire early. And so this would have been 
a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he should opt for the 
BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr L - at the age of 42 - envisaged retiring early, I 
think its likely that, properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution 
scheme benefits to make up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and 
starting to take his defined benefits, which given the overall pension resources available to 
Mr and Mrs L, could likely then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age. The 
advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
Id also refer to my comments as set out above about the likelihood at the time of the BSPS 
2 being implemented, over the likelihood of the scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I therefore consider that Mr L would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr L 
would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.
CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr L hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. So, given my comments above 
about not in any case likely needing to access the defined benefits before age 65, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ive noted what Mr Ls representative has said about the notional deduction, but the 15% 
doesnt assume that all of the pension funds will be drawn as income  as set out by the 
investigator, this factors in a withdrawal of tax free cash. Further, any product or adviser 
charges will be reflected in the value of the SIPP used within the calculation. And if Mr L 
wishes to pay reduced charges in the future, he may do so by transferring to a different 
product.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr L 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr L could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
I also agree with the investigator that Mr L would have been caused a not inconsiderable 
amount of concern by the matter, and the impact it might have on his retirement planning. As 
such, CST Wealth Management Limited should also pay Mr L £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman