DRN-2272125
The complaint
Ms G feels she was treated unfairly by HSBC UK Bank Plc when applying for an increase to 
her overdraft.
What happened
Ms G contacted HSBC in December 2019 for an increase to her overdraft because of a 
temporary problem with her account.  She went through the application with an advisor and 
was told it had been approved. However, the advisor then told Ms G that shed need to 
transfer her to another team because some further information was required.
The second advisor explained that because Ms G had said she was on maternity leave 
theyd needed to make some further checks and Ms G was asked about her job and her 
income, including questions about her proposed return to work and her sources of income 
while she was on maternity leave.
 Miss G found the questions intrusive and, in some cases inappropriate, in particular that the 
advisor assumed her partner was male and that they asked her to provide a letter from her 
employer confirming her proposed return to work. Ms G says her employer wouldnt have 
been able to confirm this as the details werent yet agreed and that by asking for this letter 
HSBC was discriminating against her because of her pregnancy which was in breach of the 
The Equalities Act 2010.
Ms G was also unhappy at the way her complaint was dealt with. She said shed been 
unable to contact the complaint handler and was told that she couldnt accept incoming calls 
when this wasnt correct.
HSBC said it was required to ensure that any lending was responsible and that the customer 
had the ability to repay any loan offered. When Ms G applied she stated she was on 
maternity leave and that she wasnt sure if she would be returning on a full or part time 
basis, or at all. This flagged up a question about the sustainability of the loan and, for that 
reason, it needed further information about her income and job both at the present time and 
long term. This would apply to all loans and not just because the customer was on maternity 
leave. However, it agreed that the underwriter shouldnt have made assumptions about Ms 
Gs partner and for that reason, it apologised and credited Ms Gs account with £50 
compensation for the upset this may have caused.
In relation to the complaint handling, it confirmed the complaint department could accept 
incoming calls but the complaint handler had left the office at the time Ms G called and this 
was why she hadnt been able to take the call in this case. It felt its offer was fair and didnt 
agree it needed to do anything more.
Our investigator felt HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly overall. Hed listened to the 
three calls between Ms G and HSBC and could understand why shed been confused initially 
as, having been told the application was approved, she was then told the bank needed more 
information.  However, he felt HSBC was entitled to ask for the additional information to 
ensure that the loan would be affordable, and this included asking for information about Ms 
Gs intended return to work. While he accepted that Ms G had no definite date in mind at the 
present time, he felt it would have been possible to have some confirmation from her 
employer that this was the intention.
With regard to the comments made by the underwriter, our investigator agreed theyd been 
wrong to make the assumptions they did. While he felt this had been a genuine mistake, for 
which the underwriter had apologised at the time, he could understand why Ms G found this 
upsetting. However, he felt that the apology from HSBC and its offer of £50 compensation 
was fair for what had happened and he didnt consider that any further action was required.
Miss G disagreed and said that she considered that HSBCs request for a letter from her 
employer was unlawful under s18 of the Equality Act 2010 as it wasnt possible for her to 
provide this document whereas a person not on maternity leave would have been able to do 
so. She asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Ms Gs complaint as Ill now explain.
One of the key requirements for all lenders is to ensure that any loans made are affordable. 
Thats to protect both the bank and the customer so I dont think it was unreasonable of 
HSBC to want to know about Ms Gs financial situation and not just at the time of the 
application but also going forward.  As HSBC has said, it doesnt take savings into account 
as they can be spent at any time so what its looking at is the customers income. 
At the time of this application Ms G case was on maternity leave and although she had a 
right to return to work, she wasnt sure on exactly what terms shed be doing so. This would 
inevitably have impacted on her income both in the short, and longer, term and on the 
affordability of any loan. For that reason I think it was reasonable for HSBC to want to know 
when Ms G intended go back to work, and on what basis.
Ive seen Ms G says her employer wouldnt have been able to provide this as there wasnt a 
precise date in mind for her return. She feels this put her in a different position to someone 
who wasnt on maternity leave and who would have been able to provide the confirmation 
HSBC was seeking and she feels HSBC is discriminating against her because shes on 
maternity leave, in breach of section 18 of the Equality Act 2010.
It seems to me that the relevant section of the 2010 Act is section17(2), not section 18 that 
relates to work based discrimination. Section 17(2) makes clear that a person should not be 
treated unfavourably because of their pregnancy.  However, I dont think HSBC were treating 
Ms G less favourably. The questions about her income and the affordability of the loan would 
have been applicable to anyone who was temporarily absent for work for any reason and 
where the bank wanted confirmation as to their financial position going forward. 
I know Ms G has said that she didnt have a specific date in mind so her employer couldnt 
provide the confirmation that HSBC wanted but I dont think thats what HSBC was asking 
for. It seems to me that what it wanted was confirmation that the employer and Ms G 
understood that Ms G intended to return to work at the end of her maternity leave, rather 
than a specific date for that return. I think thats reasonable because of the impact this would inevitably have on her income and, linked to that, her ability to manage her overdraft. On that 
basis, I cant agree HSBC has treated Ms G less favourably on account of her pregnancy.
HSBC has acknowledged that the underwriter made a number of assumptions in their call 
with Ms G that they shouldnt have done. I agree and I can understand why Ms G found this 
so frustrating. Having listened to the call, I dont think there was any intention to cause 
offence by the underwriter, and their apology at the time was sincere, but nevertheless it was 
inappropriate as HSBC has agreed. Its apologised and offered Ms G £50 for her distress.
Its also said it will provide feedback to its staff to try and ensure this doesnt happen again. 
Where we find that the bank has made a mistake, our aim is to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt occurred. Where we cant do that, as 
in this case, then we look at the impact on the consumer to decide what would be an 
appropriate outcome. 
In Ms Gs case theres nothing to suggest that the underwriters incorrect assumptions had 
any bearing on the banks decision to ask for more information so what Im looking at is the 
impact of their remarks on Ms G. I appreciate that Ms G found the call upsetting but the error 
was acknowledged immediately and an apology given. Since then HSBCs confirmed its 
apology and paid Ms G £50 compensation. In the circumstances I think HSBCs dealt with 
the complaint fairly and in line with what I would have expected for a complaint of this type 
and for that reason I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman