DRN-2443214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Cheltenham & Gloucester plc. Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) is responsible for 
complaints about Cheltenham & Gloucester plc so for simplicity Ill only refer to Lloyds from 
now on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI when they applied for a mortgage in May 1999. They said the 
mortgage was taken out by post and over the phone, but PPI wasnt mentioned  so they 
said the PPI had been added without their knowledge and consent, and the premiums 
hidden in their mortgage payments. Lloyds said the mortgage and PPI were taken out during 
a meeting in a branch, and that it had advised Mr and Mrs H to take the PPI. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs H at a 
monthly cost of £29.75. The monthly benefit was the mortgage payment - £522.11 - plus £3 
for every £1,000 of their initial mortgage, subject to a maximum of £1,300. The benefit was 
split between Mr and Mrs H broadly in proportion to their incomes. If Mr and Mrs H had 
made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed for a 
number of reasons, and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. I 
have addressed the points they raised below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds sent in copies of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application form, PPI application, 
mortgage offer and interview note, along with its computer records of Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage account. It also sent in a copy of the PPI schedule of cover and a covering letter 
addressed to Mr and Mrs H and dated July 1999. Lloyds said it did not have the terms and 
conditions from 1999 but referred us to a later policy document from 2000.  
From whats in these documents Im satisfied that there was a mortgage interview in a 
branch - I have a copy of an interview note dated 7 May 1999 and I have no reason to think 
this information is not correct. The mortgage offer wouldve been sent by post after they had 
made their application, and its quite likely that there were some phone calls as part of the 
process, so it may just be that they dont remember the meeting as all this happened so long 
ago.
The mortgage application form has yes and no tick boxes, in a section marked payment 
protection insurance, for applicants to say whether they want PPI  in this case theres a tick 
in the yes box. I also have a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs PPI application form  this is a 
separate form from the mortgage application. It shows their names, occupations and 
address and signatures, and it states that Mr and Mrs H wanted the cover split between 
them so that 75% applied to Mr H and 25% applied to Mrs H, which reflected their respective 
incomes. Theres nothing on this form to say that PPI was compulsory.
Additionally there is a direct debit mandate, also signed by Mr and Mrs H, which relates to 
the PPI  this shows that payments were to be made to Lloyds TSB General Insurance Ltd, 
rather than being collected as part of the mortgage payment. 
Lloyds told us that the PPI policy was cancelled at some point before Mr and Mrs H repaid 
their mortgage in 2004, although it couldnt tell us the exact date. However, it sent in a 
record of a phone call from Mr and Mrs H in July 2000, where it was noted that a payment 
protection refund was required. It may be that this was the point at which the PPI was 
cancelled. However this doesnt affect my decision.
I also have a list of the transactions on Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account from 2002 
onwards, and I can see no sign of PPI premiums  Id expect to see separate entries for 
these. So even if the PPI was still in force in 2002, Im satisfied premiums were not being 
collected as part of the mortgage payments.
From all of the evidence set out above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were aware of the 
PPI, were given a choice about taking it and decided to do so. The evidence also indicates 
that premiums were collected by a separate direct debit rather than being included with the 
mortgage payments. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H simply dont recall all the details of 
what happened  which is unsurprising given that the sale of the PPI took place nearly 22 
years ago.
Lloyds said it advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the PPI, and Ive no reason to doubt that. So 
had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. I think it was.
As the sale took place during a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - 
especially the things not covered. But I cant see that either Mr or Mrs H wouldve been 
affected by any of these. 
Mr and Mrs H told us that Mr H wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of 75% 
of his pay for six months, followed by 25% of his pay for three months. They also said that 
Mrs H wouldve been entitled to sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. And they said they had some savings they couldve relied on. 
From all this I think Mr and Mrs H couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if 
either had been off sick for any length of time or had lost their job. And I think Mr and Mrs H 
could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on their 
home. Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event 
of a successful claim.
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs H, although I dont think 
theyd have agreed to take it without some idea of the cost. And I can see that the cost was 
then set out in the policy schedule that Lloyds sent out just after completion of the mortgage 
 so I think they could have queried it then if it was different to what they were expecting. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Lloyds clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if Mr and Mrs H couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, as I can see 
they feel strongly about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant fairly 
say the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman