DRN-3939692
The complaint
Miss K complains that her home insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited, and its agents provided 
her with poor service when she made a claim for fire damage to her home. References to 
Aviva include its agents. 
What happened
A large fire broke out at an industrial property a little way from Miss Ks home in December 
2021 causing some damage. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to manage Miss Ks claim. It 
arranged a surveyor to inspect Miss Ks home, but his car broke down and he wasnt able to 
attend. Also Aviva said that after the appointment was made, the fire brigade advised there 
was an asbestos risk at the property and so the visit couldnt go ahead in any event. 
The surveyors visit took place in January 2022. This was followed by the loss adjusters 
schedule of works, which included window replacement and cleaning soot from the external 
render. Aviva carried out tests within Miss Ks home which proved negative for asbestos. 
Miss K complained to Aviva about the failed appointment and the inconvenience. Aviva 
apologised and paid £50 compensation. Aviva said it asked Miss K for two repair quotes as 
a cash settlement could be agreed for the lower. Miss K emailed Aviva in March 2022 with 
omissions in the repair work. She sent photos of damage, but the loss adjusters said these 
didnt show fire or smoke damage and wouldnt be included in the claim. In April 2022 Miss K 
requested debris be removed from outside her home that included asbestos. 
In April 2022 Aviva sent Miss K its loss adjusters report and made a final offer of settlement 
in respect of her claim of £3,400. Aviva also sent her a schedule of repair works in case she 
wanted its contractors to carry out the work. In May 2022 the asbestos bearing debris was 
removed, other than within Miss Ks gutters.  
Miss K rejected the settlement offer and schedule of works but wanted Avivas contractors to 
do the work. But she didnt want Avivas glaziers to replace her windows and obtained 
quotes and said additional windows and external render was damaged. Miss K complained 
to Aviva about the damage it wasnt covering and its loss adjusters handling of her claim. 
Aviva said the schedule of works was compiled by its loss adjusters after their visit and 
reviewed following Miss Ks provision of photos of damage, and it stood by the contents as 
accurate. It said only damaged garden plants hadnt been assessed for payment. Aviva sent 
another surveyor to view the damage at Miss Ks home in October 2022. The surveyor 
reported that three windows were damaged in the incident and the whole windows should be 
replaced, including a windowsill and upvc boarding. But they found no damage to brickwork, 
rendering or mortar from the fire and said that plaster cracks were due to normal settlement. 
Miss K was dissatisfied with Avivas response to her complaint and referred it to our service. 
She said a window company had told her more of her windows were heat damaged. She 
said she felt that she had been bullied by Avivas agents into accepting its way of resolving 
her claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the photos of Miss Ks 
home and contents show wear and tear, but not melting as would be expected from heat. 
She said some items are broken, and paintwork is chipped but not damaged from an outside 
fire. She said the surveyors reports of the outside are plausible in concluding theres no 
evidence of fire-related damage other than that identified. She said it wasnt for her to say if 
there had been any bullying by Avivas agents, but she hadnt seen any evidence.  
Miss K disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said Aviva had acted unfairly and unreasonably throughout her claim and caused delays 
with removal of the asbestos and this held up progress of the claim. Miss K said she thought 
it reasonable for Aviva to accede to her request for an independent assessment of the 
windows for her reassurance, but accepted that it could use its chosen contractors. She said 
the fire service report into the fire should have been considered.
Miss K agreed that some items in her home had proven not to be damaged by fire but said 
others had, including her Christmas decorations. Miss K said she disputed that the render 
wasnt damaged by the fire and said the window damage was due to the fire. She said the 
surveyor wasnt independent and said if she disagrees with a contractors point of view she 
doesnt expect to be shouted at - she deserved to be treated with courtesy and respect.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the inconvenience Miss K suffered when the initial appointment for the loss 
adjusters visit failed to take place. Although this complaint wasnt referred to us within the 
time limit, I think Avivas apology and payment of £50 compensation is a fair response. 
Im pleased that all potential asbestos-carrying material has been removed from Miss Ks 
home, although I recognise her concerns that this shouldnt have taken about eight months. I 
think Aviva responded to Miss Ks concerns reasonably up until its final response in June 
2022. It is open to Miss K to bring a complaint about this if she wishes. 
Miss Ks second complaint concerns the damage she thinks her home sustained from heat 
and smoke from the fire, that Aviva hasnt included in her claim. And she thinks the photos 
she has provided show this. Aviva responded to each one of Miss Ks concerns to say why it 
didnt consider them to be covered. It thinks that the photos dont illustrate fire-related 
damage and all fire-related damage is included within the schedule of works. Aviva said the 
damage Miss K is complaining about is due to wear and tear.
We arent building experts and so we dont make an assessment of a property to identify 
what is, and isnt claim-related damage. Our role is to look at the decisions and handling of 
the claim by the insurer to see if it has treated its policyholder in accordance with the terms 
of the policy and fairly. In order to do this we give weight to the available expert reports.
Im pleased that Aviva arranged for two surveyor visits to Miss Ks home. These are 
professionals who are required to report accurately on their assessments of the propertys 
condition. And in the absence of any other expert reports, these provide the assessments of 
the damage that I have placed greatest reliance upon. Other than replacement of the three 
windows identified as damaged as a consequence of the fire as well as the upvc boarding, 
the surveyors didnt find any other external fire-related damage. 
Miss Ks concerns about damage to other windows is answered by the surveyor and the 
glaziers with information about their manufacture. They have provided specific information about the condition of the window, and I think this is more reliable than that of the window 
company who expressed an alternative view. Where there has been an element of doubt as 
to the cause of the damage, such as with the crack to a stone windowsill Aviva has agreed 
to include the repair within the claim. 
I have also reviewed the photos of the damage, and I agree with the investigator that there 
doesnt appear to be any fire-related damage missed from the claim. Miss K hasnt provided 
any expert evidence and so I havent seen anything to contradict the conclusions reached by 
Aviva and the investigator. From the details of the reports and the photos I think it was 
reasonable of Aviva to rely upon them in deciding what not to include within the claim and I 
think its schedule of works was in accordance with the policy and fair to Miss K. 
In common with all home insurance policies, Miss Ks policy excludes claims for damage 
from wear and tear. This is to protect the insurer from liability for things that wear out or 
deteriorate over time and home maintenance that we all have to carry out from time to time. I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on its expert reports that other damaged items were 
more to do with wear and tear than any insured cause.
 
Miss K said she felt bullied by Aviva and its agents. I dont doubt that Miss K felt under 
pressure to comply with Avivas agents requests and methodology to progress her claim, but 
I havent seen anything to suggest that she was bullied by them. And I havent seen 
evidence of avoidable delays by Aviva. I agree with her that she deserves to be treated with 
courtesy and respect.
After this length of time, I think Miss K has made a reasonable request to have Aviva or its 
agents provide a list in an accessible format of the repairs that it has agreed to carry out. I 
think Aviva should provide this to Miss K and provide a timeline to completing the repair work 
as soon as practically possible.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman