DRN-2786916
The complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has unfairly recorded a Credit Industry 
Fraud Awareness System (CIFAS) marker against her name. She feels the marker should 
be removed.
What happened
In September 2015 and April 2016 Miss M made applications with HSBC to open a bank 
account. On both occasions she told it she had lived at one address, which Ill refer to as 
address A. Her application states shed lived at address A since February 2011 and 
February 2010 respectively.
Upon checking the information provided in her applications, HSBC discovered evidence that 
Miss M had likely lived at another address during the same period shed said she had only 
lived at address A. Ill refer to this address as address B. According to the searches it 
carried out, adverse information had been recorded in Miss Ms name which was linked to 
address B.
In May 2019 Miss M made another application with HSBC. In this application she said shed 
lived at another address, which Ill refer to as address C, since August 2015. HSBC initially 
accepted Miss Ms application but after carrying out further checks it discovered shed failed 
to disclose previously provided addresses and ended its relationship with her. As shed 
already made arrangements to use her HSBC account this caused her inconvenience and 
financial loss which HSBC compensated her for in June 2019. Miss M hasnt raised this 
issue as part of this complaint.
Because Miss M had failed to include addresses which were linked to adverse credit 
information in her name, HSBC felt she had deliberately omitted information in order not to 
be disadvantaged by it. In relation to each application it filed a CIFAS marker intended to 
record application fraud. 
In July 2020 Miss M contacted our service and complained about the CIFAS markers 
recorded against her and the impact this was having on her life. She said she didnt 
intentionally omit any information from her applications. She said:
Shed moved a lot and didnt keep records of exact dates
There had been a fire at address B at some point and shed had to move out
Shed been on medication which made it very difficult for her to keep track of things 
which is why she mightve been confused about when she lived at each address
When shed made the applications she was in the midst of a relationship breakdown, 
had lost her home and partner and had attempted suicide
A previous partner had taken out credit in her name without her knowledge
Shed provided two addresses to HSBC but had simply got the dates wrong
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt the decision to apply the marker was 
reasonable based on the evidence theyd seen. As Miss M didnt accept this, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been 
application fraud  where the applicant has submitted an application with one or more 
material falsehoods for the purpose of obtaining a benefit. In order to file such a marker, its 
not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss M is guilty of a financial crime, but 
it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
HSBC has provided information from Miss Ms credit file that shows adverse information 
relating to debts and utility bills in her name at address B dating back to October 2013. It 
also shows she was registered on the electoral role at this address in 2013. So as a starting 
point I think HSBC has reasonable grounds to believe Miss M has lived at address B and 
that this information has been omitted from at least two separate applications to HSBC. 
When Miss M made her third application in 2019 she said shed lived at address C since 
August 2015. This application was initially accepted by HSBC before it carried out further 
checks. It then discovered this information contradicted her application of September 2016 in 
which shed said she lived at address A and had done for several years. 
HSBC reviewed the evidence it had previously relied on when filing the CIFAS marker in 
2015 following her first application. This showed adverse information linked to address A in 
Miss Ms name in the five years leading up to the 2019 application. 
As shed omitted addresses with adverse information in her name linked to them in each 
application, HSBC concluded Miss M had deliberately omitted addresses in an attempt to 
prevent adverse credit information potentially affecting her application. It filed a CIFAS 
marker in relation to each application and based on the evidence Ive seen I think it had 
reasonable grounds to do so.
Miss M has given reasons as to why she thinks the CIFAS markers are unfair. Shes said the 
omission of information wasnt deliberate and shes explained her circumstances at time of 
the applications. Im sorry to hear of everything Miss M has been through and cant imagine 
how difficult everything shes described mustve been for her. And, Ive considered this 
information very carefully, but overall, I dont think what shes said has plausibly explained 
how she failed to mention more than one previous address she lived at on three separate 
occasions across a four year period.
Miss M has said there was a fire at address B and shed had to move and that she lost her 
home which is why she wasnt able to remember it. But I dont think this explains why, when 
she made her third application in May 2019, she failed to mention address A which is the 
only address shed previously provided to HSBC. Id also note the council tax information 
Miss M has provided in order to prove when she lived at previous addresses appears to 
show two additional addresses she lived at in 2017 which also werent mentioned in her 
application to HSBC in 2019.
Miss M has also said she didnt omit addresses entirely, but simply got the dates confused. 
However, Ive seen the applications made to HSBC and on each occasion only one address has been provided. So I dont think its likely she did provide more than one address on each 
occasion. Her credit file shows credit in her name registered to address B throughout 2013, 
2014 and 2015. Some entries are dated just six months before she made her first application 
with HSBC in September 2015. Based on the dates recorded on her credit file, it also 
appears there is a considerable overlap between one address and the next. So I dont think 
its plausible she forgot these addresses even taking into account the circumstances shes 
described.
And, ultimately, it was down to Miss M to make sure the information she was providing was 
correct to avoid falsifying information in her application. If she felt unable to be sure of the 
information she was providing at the time of the applications due to her circumstances and 
her medical treatment, its reasonable to expect her to have checked the information before 
making the application, or to have contacted HSBC for guidance.
Overall, I think HSBC had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS markers to be recorded. I 
appreciate what Miss M has said about the impact this is having on her, and Im sorry to 
hear this. But Im afraid this isnt grounds for me to ask HSBC to remove them.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman