DRN-3698811
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance lent 
to her when it shouldnt have.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 11 August 2022, where I set out a detailed 
background to this complaint. An excerpt of my provisional decision is below;
What happened
Hitachi lent Mrs G six loans, the details of the loans are as follows;
Loan number
Start dateLoan amount 
(£) TermRepayment 
amount (£) End date
1 04/04/2017 8,000 60 months 200 15/09/2017
2 29/08/2017* 1,695 48 months 31.78 03/07/2019
3 17/09/2017 3,000 24 months 166.93 03/07/2019
4 02/07/2019 12,000 60 months 268.10 live
5 25/09/2019* 1,270 48 months 23.81 23/02/2021
6 14/09/2021 8,750 48 months 256.82 live
*these are interest free loans Mrs G used to purchase goods.
When Mrs G complained to Hitachi, it didnt uphold her complaint, it said it carried out
sufficient checks and the checks showed Mrs G could afford the loans. Mrs G then referred
her complaint to this service where our adjudicator didnt think loans 2 and 5 should be
upheld but she recommended that loans 1,3,4 and 6 should be upheld. Hitachi disagreed; it
essentially says its checks were sufficient. As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mrs Gs complaint form, she says she wasnt complaining about loans 1, 2 and 5
but she thought the other loans shouldnt have been lent.
As Mrs G has said she wasnt complaining about those loans, Ive focussed my decision on
the lending of loans 3, 4 and 6. Ive taken into account the other loans as they form part of
Mrs Gs lending history with Hitachi.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Hitachi is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of
this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that
Mrs G would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will
deal with separately below.
Were Hitachis checks proportionate?
Hitachi has provided information to show it asked Mrs G about her income at the time it
made each lending decision. It also says it searched her credit file but hasnt provided the
full results of its searches instead, it has provided an internal document it says it inputted into
its system using the raw data from the credit checks it carried out. To be clear, the rules
didnt give a list of checks that Hitachi had to carry out, but Hitachi was required to carry out
proportionate checks before making each lending decision.
At the time of loan 3, Mrs Gs income was recorded as £3,645.15 per month, Hitachi
recorded that Mrs G shared the mortgage payment with her partner and so it lent on the
basis that she was paying £381 towards the mortgage. Hitachi also recorded that Mrs G was
paying around £38.37 towards credit commitments. Based on this it thought Mrs G had
enough income to repay the loan.
Before taking loan 3, Mrs G had borrowed twice from Hitachi, in fact loans 1 and 2 were
running concurrently and she took out loan 3 two days after repaying loan 1 and so theres a
question about whether Hitachi did enough before lending this loan bearing in mind Mrs Gs
history with it.
The borrowing continued into loan 4, from the information provided, Hitachi lent Mrs G loan 4
a day before she repaid loans 2 and 3. Loan 4 was now for three times more than loan 3 and
it had a longer term. And by the time Hitachi lent loan 6, Mrs Gs balance was still
outstanding on loan 4 which meant at a point she was repaying three loans concurrently.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Hitachi to rely on the same level of checks as it did
for the initial lending when it lent loans 3, 4 and 6. I think it should have been looking to
understand Mrs Gs financial circumstances better, particularly as it should have been
concerned she may have been dependent on credit. This could have been by verifying some
of the information Mrs G provided through bank statements or payslips.
What would proportionate checks have shown?
To try and understand Mrs Gs actual financial circumstances at the time, Mrs G has
provided copies of her bank statements around the time of the loans. Ive relied on these to
assess what Hitachi would likely have found had it taken its checks further.
Proportionate checks for loan 3 would likely have shown Hitachi Mrs Gs income was less
than she declared, the bank statements show that Mrs G earned around £1,595 in the
months before she was lent loan 3. Mrs G would have been paying more than a quarter of
her income towards credit commitments, this meant that over the 24-month term of the loan,
she was likely to struggle to repay.
By the time of loan 4 onwards, Mrs G was borrowing from other lenders including high cost
lenders, although her income had increased to around £4,600 Mrs G was needing to rely on
credit quite significantly.
She was in a similar position at the time of loan 6, continuing to rely on credit - her overdraft
and cash from her credit card as well as the loan from Hitachi.Mrs G had continuously borrowed for more than four years, some of the loans ran
concurrently, I think the continued need for Mrs G to return for more loans should have
concerned Hitachi about her dependence on credit. Hitachi ought to have known she was
reliant on credit and borrowing to repay other credit. In those circumstances, Hitachi
shouldnt have lent those loans and it needs to put things right. 
The time to respond to the provisional decision has now passed. Hitachi didnt provide any 
further comments or evidence. Mrs G responded to say even though when she referred the 
complaint to this service, she said she didnt want loan 1 considered, shed like this loan 
considered as well.
As this wasnt a new complaint and Hitachi already had a chance to comment on this loan, I 
reviewed that lending decision and explained my provisional findings to Mrs G. I said:
Mrs G has provided to my provisional decision to say shed like me to review loan 1. Mrs G 
acknowledges she didnt want it reviewed when she completed the complaint form but on 
reflection, she would like me to make a decision on whether the first loan was affordable 
especially as the adjudicator made a finding on it.
I can see Hitachi already had a chance to review its lending decision for loan 1 so I have now 
considered whether that loan was fairly lent. The loan was for £8,000 with a monthly 
repayment of £200 over a 60-month period. This was Mrs Gs first loan with Hitachi and there 
was no known previous history of lending as there was at the time of the subsequent loans. 
While Hitachi hasnt provided detailed record of its search into Mrs Gs credit file, 
Mrs G has said her credit use at the time wasnt elevated. She argues that had Hitachi 
completed thorough checks like checking her payslips and bank statement then it would have 
seen she couldnt afford this loan.
Looking at the overall circumstances of this loan, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Hitachi to carry out thorough checks before agreeing to lend this loan. I say 
this because it was Mrs Gs first loan, the repayment amount was a very small portion of her 
declared income of around £3,300 also there doesnt appear to have been any concerning 
information on the credit file. On that basis, I wont have expected Hitachi to be reviewing 
payslips or bank statements at this stage and so even if further checks would have revealed 
the loan wasnt affordable, this isnt something I would have expected Hitachi to have found 
from what I consider proportionate checks for this loan. So I think for this loan Hitachis 
checks went far enough and those checks show Mrs G could afford the loan, on that basis, 
Hitachi wasnt wrong to lend this loan to Mrs G.
In response to my provisional findings on loan 1, Mrs G disagreed. She says had Hitachi 
checks werent reasonable and had it checked her bank statements, it would have seen that 
loan 1 wasnt affordable. Among other things, she has questioned why loan 1 is being 
treated differently to the other loans and if an adjudicator upheld that loan, why Im inclined 
not to uphold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings on loans 3, 4 and 6 arent in dispute by either party so I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings on those loans.In relation to loan 1, Id start by saying this service has a two stage process and where a 
complaint cant be resolved at the initial stage like this one, it is referred to an ombudsman 
like me, who reviews all the information afresh and reaches a decision on what they think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Im not bound by the findings of 
the adjudicator and I have carried out a full and independent review of the case. 
Hitachi needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Hitachi should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Loan 1 was the start of the lending relationship and given the cost of the loan and the 
monthly repayments, I wouldnt have expected Hitachi to request bank statements or 
payslips from Mrs G at that stage as a matter of course. What is different between loan 1 
and the subsequent loans Ive upheld is that by the time of those loans, Mrs G has started 
showing signs of being reliant on credit, having had concurrent loans with Hitachi and a 
concerning borrowing history. These werent factors that were present at the time of loan 1. 
Also, the results of its affordability checks showed Mrs G would have been left with sufficient 
disposable income after taking into account her credit commitments and the loan repayment. 
Even if Hitachi took into account the full mortgage payment as being Mrs Gs responsibility, 
the checks show Mrs G was likely to still have sufficient disposable income for loan 1.
I appreciate that may not have been the true picture as Mrs G argues that her bank 
statements show she wouldnt have been able to afford the loan but Hitachi didnt need to 
see her bank statements or payslips at this stage and I think its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate to the lending circumstances. Those checks didnt reveal concerning details 
that should have prompted it to take its checks further.
Overall, I dont think Hitachi acted unfairly by lending to Mrs G based on reasonable checks 
which didnt show Mrs G would struggle to repay loan 1.
I appreciate my findings about loan 1 will likely disappoint Mrs G but I hope my explanation 
goes to assure her that I fully considered the lending decision. Based on the circumstances 
of the first loan, I wont be asking Hitachi to put things right for that loan. But I think it lent 
loans 3, 4 and 6 when it shouldnt have and it needs to put things right for those loans. Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 3, 4 and 6.
Treat any payments made by Mrs G as payments towards the capital amounts of
those three loans.
If Mrs G has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded
to with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Hitachi should agree a suitable repayment
plan with Mrs G.
Remove any adverse information about the loan 3 from Mrs Gs credit file and
remove adverse information about loans 4 and 6 after Mrs G has fully repaid the
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hitachi to take off tax from this interest. Hitachi must give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman