DRN-4222379
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about the administration services provided by BISL Limited 
(BISL) when renewing their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T received their renewal price from their broker, BISL, which they say was 
over 400% higher than what theyd paid the previous year. They believe this was as a result 
of a call Mrs T made to the insurer to query whether potential damage to a boundary wall 
was covered by their policy. Mrs T and Mr T say no claim had been made and there wasnt 
even an insured event to claim for. They say they discussed this with BISL and, although this 
reduced the premium, the price was still more than 100% higher than what theyd paid the 
previous year. Mrs T and Mr T believe BISL shouldve questioned the original renewal price 
before sending it to them, so they complained. 
BISL responded and explained, at the time of the renewal, the incident reported by Mrs T 
was recorded as a claim on the policy. And, because it was showing as an open claim, it 
was considered a fault claim until the insurer was able to recover 100% of their costs. BISL 
explained it was the insurer who recorded this as a claim, so theyd forwarded this part of the 
complaint to the insurer. BISL accepted theyd delayed in forwarding the complaint to the 
insurer and also about not placing Mr T on hold correctly during a call which led to him 
overhearing a comment made about his complaint. BISL confirmed theyd made 
arrangements to pay £60 compensation. BISL said the insurer had confirmed the incident 
had been settled as notification only. They explained the reason why this hadnt been 
recorded for information purposes was because Mrs T had confirmed Mrs T and Mr T had 
building works ongoing on the property in the last year and theyd noticed damage to the dry- 
stone wall.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs T and Mr T. He agreed BISL had made errors and 
recommended they increase the compensation to £100. Mrs T and Mr T disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs T and Mr T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. When taking 
out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance intermediary who is 
responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy  often this will be a broker. In 
this case, the broker is BISL. The insurer is the business which underwrites the policy and 
decides on a price. So, while BISL were responsible for sending the renewal invite, theyve 
explained the price was calculated by the insurer and the insurer was also responsible for 
recording the incident following Mrs Ts call. My decision here focusses only on the actions 
of BISL as the broker. 
I can see Mrs T and Mr T paid £789.11 for their buildings insurance policy in 2022. They 
were then quoted £3,362.12 for their renewal in 2023  followed by a revised renewal for 
£1,612.09. There has been a significant increase here, so I understand why Mrs T and Mr T 
are concerned. I can see from information provided by BISL that they received notification of 
an incident from the insurer, so they updated their records to reflect this. As the incident had 
only recently occurred, and because BISL hadnt at that point been notified if there had been 
a claim made, a provisional value was recorded for the claim. BISL then sent the renewal 
invite around two weeks later and this noted a claim. Mr T then contacted BISL and 
explained no claim had been made and BISL agreed to get an update from the insurer. The 
insurer then confirmed the claim had been settled as notification only and a revised renewal 
was sent to Mrs T and Mr T showing no claims had been disclosed. BISL explain a 
notification only incident has been added to the policy. They say, while they understand   
Mrs T and Mr T disagree with this, the decision to record the incident in this way was made 
by the insurer. 
As mentioned above, Im looking at BISLs actions here as the broker and the steps they 
took during the renewal process. I understand Mrs T and Mr Ts points about how the 
incident was reported but I cant say BISL have acted unreasonably here as theyve been 
notified by the insurer of an incident and then sent a renewal quote based on the price 
calculated by the insurer. So, I dont think BISL have acted unreasonably here. 
I can see Mrs T and Mr T are concerned about the delay in BISL referring part of their 
complaint to the insurer and also the customer service received during a call Mr T made to 
BISL. The key facts about these parts of the complaint arent in dispute. BISL have admitted 
they got things wrong when they delayed in referring the complaint about the price and claim 
notification to the insurer and also about a comment made by their call handler. The only 
issue I have to decide here is whether their offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
During the call the call handler acknowledges that, from the point they first identified there 
was a complaint about the insurer, it wasnt forwarded to them until around three weeks 
later. The call handler then attempts to place Mr T on hold to discuss a matter with a 
colleague. The call handler is then overheard saying Its taken me all day, this one. When 
the call handler returns to the call, Mr T points out that he overheard the comment made and 
the call handler apologises. 
I think its right that BISL should compensate Mrs T and Mr T for the frustration and upset 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by BISL and what the impact of those 
errors has been. 
I acknowledge it was frustrating for Mrs T and Mr T to learn that the part of the complaint 
relating to the pricing and how the incident was recorded  which appears to be the main 
issues and the reason why they raised a complaint in the first place  hadnt been referred to 
the insurer for three weeks. Its clear Mrs T and Mr T wanted clarity on this  ideally before 
the policy was set to renew. That didnt happen so I acknowledge Mrs T and Mr Ts 
frustration. I note Mr T says this impacted his ability to shop around for an alternative policy. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ts point, but Im not persuaded this prevented Mrs T and Mr T from 
looking at alternative policies. I understand why Mrs T and Mr T will have wanted clarity on 
the pricing and incident recording issue, but they did still receive the revised quote in 
advance of the renewal date. And, given that Mrs T and Mr T still felt this was too high, they 
did have an opportunity to shop around. So, while Ive taken into account the frustration caused in not having clarity on the position, I cant say this prevented Mrs T and Mr T from 
making enquiries for alternative cover. 
In relation to the phone call, I acknowledge it was upsetting for Mr T to hear this comment 
being made by the call handler. It appears the call handler is referring to them spending 
most of the day in dealing with Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint. And, whether it was the case 
theyd spent most of the day handling the complaint or not, I dont believe it was professional 
or courteous for such a comment to be made and overheard by Mr T. I think the call handler 
did then take appropriate steps to address this at the time by apologising during the call. 
Taking all the information into account, I think that total compensation of £100 would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances here.     
I acknowledge Mr Ts points about Consumer Duty and his question about how BISL have 
met these requirements when they failed to identify and investigate a quote which showed 
an increase in price of more than 400%. I do understand why Mr T is concerned by this but, 
in this case, I dont believe BISL have acted unfairly. I agree the price had increased 
significantly, but BISL had already been notified about a claim. So, while it might well have 
been expected the price would increase following this, any rating factors and loadings for 
this have been applied by the insurer. So, I dont believe BISL needed to take any further 
steps beyond those they did in this case. 
I also acknowledge Mr Ts points that BISL shouldve helped to pursue the complaint against 
the insurer and to engage with the insurer to get a price which discounted the claim from the 
policy. Given that it was the insurer who set a price for the policy, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BISL to refer this part of the complaint to the insurer and ask them to liaise 
directly with Mrs T and Mr T to address this. I can see BISL did make enquiries with the 
insurer after Mr T raised concerns about the claim showing on his policy. And this led to a 
revised renewal quote being issued  which didnt include the claim. So, I think BISL took 
appropriate steps here when the concern was raised by Mr T.  
I wish to reassure Mrs T and Mr T that Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that BISL have made errors which have had an impact on Mrs T and     
Mr T. So, in addition to the £60 already paid, they should pay an additional £40 for the 
frustration and upset  bringing the total paid for this complaint to £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BISL Limited have already paid £60 
compensation  so they must pay Mrs T and Mr T an additional £40 to bring the total amount 
of compensation paid to £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman