DRN-2796479
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money), turned off 
its Online Service with Mr D having to use the Virgin Money Credit Card app instead.
What happened
Mr D has had his credit card account with Virgin Money for a number of years. Virgin Money 
made a commercial decision to turn off its Online Service from 31 January 2021 and replace 
it with the Virgin Money Credit Card app. Virgin Money informed its customers in advance 
of the switch off date.
Mr D received notification on 20 October 2020 about the change and complained to 
Virgin Money. Mr D explained that he does all of his online banking via his laptop and 
downloads his statements onto his laptop and rarely uses the app. Mr D said he was already 
compromised for space (memory) on his mobile phone and downloading statements through 
the app on his phone and then having to transfer the statements (via email) would be an 
inconvenience. Mr D considered that Virgin Money werent treating its customers fairly. 
Virgin Money looked into Mr Ds concerns and responded to his complaint on 29 October 
2020. It explained that it was a business decision and was made to ensure Virgin Money 
continued to provide the best possible service while continuing to comply with regulations 
regarding security and encryption. It explained some of the benefits of the app and also went 
on to explain that it understood there may be some customers who do not wish to use the 
app or are unable to for some other reason. It explained in those instances it has other 
options to help customers manage their account such as text banking and its Customer 
Services Team. It also explained that customers can ask for free paper statements to be 
sent if they wish.
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response, Mr D referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. In short, they considered Virgin Money had made a 
business decision to turn off its Online Service and had acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the account. And they were satisfied that Virgin Money had also given 
Mr D a reasonable notice period when informing him of the upcoming change.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion and requested the complaint be looked at by 
an ombudsman. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that businesses are entitled to make commercial decisions 
about how they operate. I dont have the power to tell a business how it should operate  
thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Virgin Money treated Mr D fairly when making any changes to 
the account he held, and whether it did so in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. 
Under section 16. Can this agreement be changed? it states:
16.2 As well as for the reasons given above, we may also change this
agreement to:
reflect new technology and other innovations, or changes to systems 
or card schemes.
change our services or how we operate.
make this agreement clearer to you and to correct errors. 
16.3 We will give you 30 days notice when making a change to your
disadvantage. If the change is to a rate of interest you will have
another 30 days during which you can tell us you want to stop using
your card and pay back the balance within a reasonable time, at the
existing rate.
So its clear from the terms and conditions that Virgin Money can change a customers 
agreement with it to reflect new technology and other innovations and change its services or 
how it operates. 
And importantly, when deciding to make a change, the terms and conditions require it to 
notify its customers in advance. 
Here Virgin Money made a commercial decision to turn off its Online Services as it wanted 
its customers to use the Virgin Money Credit Card app.
Virgin Money within its submissions to this service provided information to show that 
customers were provided with at least two communications in advance of the change to let 
them know that the Online Servicing was closing on 31January 2021 and that customers 
could download the app and service their account via this method from this point onwards.
Mr D confirmed he first received a notification about the change in October 2020.
So Im satisfied that Virgin Money acted within the terms and conditions of the account here.
From reading Mr Ds comments his main concern is that he is frustrated and feels 
inconvenienced by the change. Mr D says he liked to use his laptop to log on to the 
Online Service and download his statements that way, and rarely used the mobile app. Mr D 
says his phone barely has enough memory, so only being able to download statements 
through the app is an inconvenience to him.While I acknowledge that it may be of an inconvenience to Mr D, I have to also consider that 
Mr Ds statements are available to him through the app. I appreciate that Mr D liked to 
download his statements through the Online Service and keep a record  but that feature is 
available to him through the app. I appreciate Mr Ds comments that not everyone has the 
latest phone or has so much memory available and I can understand that managing the 
memory available on his phone may require some additional time. But fundamentally Mr D 
still has the option to download his statements and email them to wherever he wishes.
I am also mindful that Virgin Money, in its notifications about the change, provided other 
ways for its customers to service their account. Virgin Money advised that there is online 
help available through its cardhub. Through cardhub there are online forms which are still 
available to customers where they have access to or can request around 10 different options 
ranging from making credit limit changes, ordering replacement cards, managing their 
statement preferences to closing their account. Virgin Money also explain free paper 
statements, text banking and a dedicated 24 hour a day  seven days a week Customer 
Services Team is also available to its customers. 
So while Virgin Money made the commercial decision to stop the Online Service, I consider 
it acted fairly in being mindful of its customers who may choose not to download and use the 
app by providing other ways for those customers to service their account. I also note that 
Virgin Money acknowledged within their notification to their customers that ultimately some 
customers may remain not happy with the change to its Online Service and that these 
customers can close their account at any time. And by giving advanced notice of the change 
it allowed those customers enough time, if unhappy with the changes, to close their account 
and take their business elsewhere.   
I do note that Mr D has said that downloading the statements through the app hasnt been as 
such an inconvenience as he thought, but overall remains unhappy with the change and will 
most likely look to close his account. 
If Mr D wishes to close his account because he disagrees with the change Virgin Money 
implemented, then that is Mr Ds decision to make. But overall, I am satisfied that 
Virgin Money made a commercial decision to make a change to its service and how it 
operated  and did so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. I am also 
satisfied Virgin Money gave sufficient advanced warning of the change to Mr D and that it 
also tried to accommodate any customers who may not wish to download the app, by having 
other methods available to help those customers to continue to service their account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman