The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) defaulted her account 
having previously told her that they would place it on hold whilst she sought advice from the 
Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). She wishes the default to be removed from her credit file due 
to its adverse effect.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs W and Nationwide, so I dont think there is any great benefit to reciting it 
all again in any detail. Like our investigator was sorry to learn of the very difficult 
circumstances Mrs W experienced. What I shall do, is focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision, but I wish to assure Mrs W that I have considered all of the information provided. 
So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because Ive 
thought its not had any direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In summary, Mrs W began to experience financial difficulties from around 2014 and notified 
Nationwide who tried to help her over a number of years by putting in place different 
payment arrangements. Ultimately Nationwide sent a notice of intention to default the 
account if a payment arrangement could not be reached, and when it wasnt, the account 
was defaulted in May 2019.  Mrs W thought Nationwide had acted unfairly because it had 
told her that it would put a hold on the account until she had spoken to the CAB, but then 
without notice had defaulted her account.
Nationwide denied they had made such an agreement and pointed to the long history of 
payment arrangements and subsequent defaults to justify their decision to default her 
account.
Mrs W was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with 
the complaint fairly.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
DRN-1710344I have considered both sides views in considering whether Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Nationwide has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The accepted facts are that Mrs W was experiencing financial difficulties and had been for 
many years. The evidence clearly shows that Nationwide have at times refunded charges 
and interest. In Mid 2018 Nationwide were in correspondence with Mrs W and had raised the 
point that the only way to stop interest and charges permanently would be to default her 
account. In the latter part of 2018 Mrs W entered into a payment arrangement which she did 
not stick to. Nationwide had also set out in a letter for Mrs W, the consequences of not 
sticking to the arrangement which included defaulting her account, but also providing 
information on organisations which might be able to help her. And when the arrangement 
was not adhered to Nationwide sent another letter again advising Mrs W of the 
consequences of failing to maintain her account within the terms of the arrangement.
So, by this point in time, the end of 2018, it is clear on the evidence that Nationwide had 
acted positively and sympathetically towards Mrs W. They had refunded interest, removed 
charges, and set up payment plans. They had provided information on organisations which 
might assist her with her debt problem and also included details of their own Financial 
Difficulties Team.
At the end of 2018 a further payment arrangement was set up but again Mrs W didnt stick to 
it causing Nationwide to write to her in January 2019 once again explaining the 
consequences of doing so. In addition, in mid-January, Nationwide sent what is known as a 
formal Default Notice which set out that if Nationwide didnt receive a payment, or reach an 
agreement, by the 6 February then the account would be closed, and a default registered 
with the credit reference agencies (CRAs). This is another significant milestone as it put Mrs 
W in the position of clearly knowing what was about to happen regarding defaulting her 
account.
However, the evidence shows that a further agreement was then entered into on the 22 
January. Nationwide also agreed not to default her account at that time and to place her 
account on hold for 2 months whilst she spoke to PayPlan, making it clear that by the end of 
those 2 months a permanent payment arrangement had to be put in place through PayPlan. 
Unfortunately, by the 13 February Mrs W had failed to stick to the payment plan and so 
spoke to Nationwide once more. On this occasion she raised a complaint about the charges, 
whilst acknowledging she was in serious long-term financial difficulty. Nationwide, in a 
written response to the complaint, agreed to refund charges and interest and asked Mrs W 
to contact them to discuss the account. Ultimately in the absence of any agreement 
Nationwide defaulted the account on the 21 May.
When a bank knows their customer is in financial difficulties, they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly. The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes suspending charges on the 
account. But they dont have to do that - what they have to do is deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers once they know they are in financial difficulty, and they can 
do a range of things, depending on the customers circumstances.
The clear history to this complaint shows that Nationwide have acted very sympathetically 
and positively as they have tried numerous payment plans and refunded charges and 
interest. Sadly, Mrs W was unable to stick to those plans leading Nationwide to the inevitable conclusion that there was little prospect of her being able to manage her account in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of that account.
So, I am satisfied that Nationwides subsequent decision to default the account was correct. I 
have considered Mrs Ws contention that there had been an agreement not to default her 
account whilst she spoke with the CAB, but Im afraid there is no evidence of that. There is 
nothing in written form, and the telephone conversations do not record that either. What the 
telephone recordings do show is that there was discussion of PayPlan, and it may be that 
Mrs W is referring to that. 
But ultimately, after many broken arrangements, Mrs W was given a final 2 month period of 
grace during which she was asked to enter into a permanent arrangement through PayPlan 
but that never happened.
Businesses have a responsibility to record correctly the status of any account, and are 
obliged to report factual information to the CRAs. Having issued the default, I cant say they 
have acted unreasonably in notifying the CRAs on the status of Mrs account. I am unable to 
recommend this be amended.
So, although Mrs W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Nationwide 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman