DRN-2076129
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a van he was financing through an agreement with FCE 
Bank Plc (FCE).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr N, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr N. The van 
here was new so I would not expect it to have any faults when supplied.
The fault with the power steering was first reported in late 2019 about five years after Mr N 
had taken receipt of the van. The relevant legislation says that, as the fault happened more 
than six months after Mr N took receipt of the van, the onus is on him to demonstrate that 
the fault was present or developing at the point the van was supplied to him
Im not persuaded Ive seen sufficient evidence that that was the case. I understand that    
Mr N had completed a low mileage in the vehicle, but I think its reasonable to suggest that 
vehicles can deteriorate over time and regardless of the mileage completed. 
I also understand that Mr N is disappointed the dealership didnt keep the damaged power 
steering pipe for him to be able to evidence the damage he says was due to a manufacturing 
defect. I dont think it would be reasonable to hold FCE responsible for that and I think, on 
balance, even if the pipe had been available, Mr N would be unlikely to be able to 
demonstrate any failure was the result of a manufacturing defect rather than wear and tear. I 
think its likely that any manufacturing defect would have failed earlier.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman