DRN-1685936
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
mis-sold a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
Mrs E met with a Sun Life adviser in July 1995 to discuss retirement planning. Sun Life 
recommended she take out an FSAVC plan, which started on 1 September 1995.
In 2019 Mrs E complained, via a representative, that the FSAVC plan had been mis-sold. 
The representative said the plan wasnt suitable for Mrs E and that she wasnt made aware 
of the financial implications of choosing the FSAVC plan over her employers additional 
voluntary contribution (AVC) plan, which wouldve had lower charges.
Sun Life didnt agree the FSAVC was unsuitable. It said Mrs Es in house AVC was 
discussed but Mrs E opted to take the FSAVC plan instead. This was because she wanted 
to retire at age 55 and she didnt want to investigate her employers AVC.
As Mrs E remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Sun Life had an obligation to highlight 
the difference in costs between an in house AVC and the FSAVC. Had Sun Life done so, 
she thought Mrs E wouldve most likely opted to take out an AVC with her employer instead. 
So, she recommended Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance to put Mrs E into the correct financial position, as far 
as possible, as if shed taken out an AVC instead at the time the advice was given.
Sun Life didnt agree. It didnt think the regulations applicable at the time of sale, the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulator Organisation (LAUTRO) guidelines, required it to 
compare or highlight the difference in cost between an AVC and an FSAVC plan. It 
maintained the FSAVC plan was suitable for Mrs Es needs as it allowed her to take pension 
benefits earlier than her employers scheme.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Sun Lifes view is that there was no requirement under LAUTRO for it to make Mrs E aware 
that her employers AVC would likely involve lower charges. The guidelines say a tied 
adviser should:have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights it may 
have under a workplace pension; and
give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
 
Sun Life accepts the guidelines placed an obligation on the adviser to discuss Mrs Es in-
house AVC. However, it says the paperwork completed at the time shows the AVC was 
discussed and Mrs E didnt want to investigate it any further.
Ive looked at the documents Sun Life has provided, and in particular the fact-find relating to 
the meeting in 1995. Its recorded that:
You strongly wish to retire at 55 and would have 21 years pensionable service at that time. 
As you are responsible for about 72% of the total household income and have less potential 
service than (Mr E), any disposable income is best allocated to your pension planning. The 
benefits of in house AVCs and Free Standing AVCs were discussed and as you did not wish 
to investigate your employers AVC, I recommend you set up a (Sun Life) FSAVC to age 55. 
You agreed to do this at a gross premium of £120pm (£90pm net) on an escalating premium 
basis of 5% pa. You are aware that this premium will not eliminate your pension shortfall at 
55 but it is the highest comfortable outlay affordable at present.
Sun Life believes that this demonstrates the adviser met the requirements in place at the 
time by discussing the AVC, but I dont agree.
I think a fair and reasonable interpretation of the LAUTRO guidelines is that advisors ought 
to have explained that AVCs were likely to provide better value for money and to have 
recommended that their customers consider the AVC.
I cant see that the adviser discussed the difference in charges which wouldve highlighted to 
Mrs E that an AVC was likely to provide better value for money than an FSAVC. As a tied 
adviser, Sun Life wouldnt have been able to provide advice about Mrs Es employers 
specific AVC scheme. But I think they couldve provided general information, such as that it 
was likely to be better value for money. They could have also advised Mrs E to find out more 
information from her employer about its AVC plan. I think this would have met the 
requirement under the code to have regard to any rights they may have under a 
workplace pension.
Ive considered Sun Lifes arguments that the adviser recorded Mrs E didnt want to 
investigate her employers AVC. But in the absence of a reason why, Im not placing great 
weight on this statement. On balance, I think if the adviser had highlighted the charges 
associated with the in house AVC were likely to be lower, I think Mrs E wouldve wanted to 
investigate this further. This is because she had a limited budget to put towards her pension, 
and I think she wouldve wanted the best value option so that she had the largest sum 
available to her at retirement.
Overall, I dont think Mrs E was presented with enough clear information to make an 
informed choice about whether any possible benefits of the FSAVC were sufficient in her 
circumstances to outweigh the benefits of the AVC plans likely lower charges. 
Mrs Es representative has also suggested that Mrs E wouldve considered purchasing 
added years instead. So, Ive considered whether, if Mrs E had been given sufficient 
information about all her in house options, she would have likely chosen to buy added years.The cost of added years of service in Mrs Es occupational pension scheme was determined 
by the Government Actuary, using conservative assumptions of likely future investment 
experience. This made them more expensive than if a less conservative (or more optimistic) 
set of assumptions had been used. The aim was to make sure, as far as possible, that the 
cost of added years would be met by the members. The intention was that this would mean 
there would be no shortfall that would have to be picked up by the employer.
The fact find completed at the time of the sale showed Mrs E described her attitude to risk as 
3 out of a scale from 1  5, meaning she was willing to take some risk with her money. It 
also shows Mrs E joined her employer when she was around 21, taking a break from work 
between 1976 and 1982. So, whilst she had 21 years pensionable service at the time of 
advice, she would only have been able to purchase around five past added years. On 
realistic assumptions of future investment experience at the time of the advice, it would 
probably have been shown that the projected benefits from the money purchase approach 
(the in-house AVC) would be greater than the projected added years benefits. And given 
Mrs E was willing to take some risk to achieve higher returns, I think its unlikely she 
wouldve chosen the more risk averse option of buying added years.
Overall, if Mrs E had investigated her employers AVC, I think the potential growth of it 
wouldve looked far more attractive than that provided by the added years  particularly as 
she wanted to retire earlier than her employers schemes normal retirement date. Any past 
added years would be included in her total pension benefits, and her employers scheme 
made actuarial reductions if benefits were taken earlier than the schemes normal retirement 
date. However, the benefits in an AVC scheme were held separately, so wouldnt have been 
subject to those reductions.
Given the above, Im not satisfied that Mrs E wouldve purchased added years within her 
employers pension scheme. Instead, I think if shed been given sufficient information, its 
most likely she would have opted to contribute to the in-house AVC scheme. So, by 
recommending Mrs E take out an FSAVC, I think she has lost out.
Putting things right
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint. I require 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Mrs E compensation in 
accordance with the regulatory guidance applicable to the FSAVC review on a charges 
only basis.
If any loss is established Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
redress in line with the regulators guidance as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman