DRN-2537134
The complaint
Ms D complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc treated her unfairly when her mortgage fell into 
arrears. 
What happened
Ms D and her ex-husband took out a mortgage with AIB. They separated and Ms D lives in 
the property with their children. The mortgage has been in arrears for some time, with no 
payments made into the mortgage account since 2013. AIB started possession action. 
Ms D says AIB was unreasonable when it didnt accept repayment of part of the mortgage in 
settlement of the debt. She says its unfair that AIB hasnt tried to recover the debt from her 
ex-husband. 
Ms D says shes been unable to work due to the stress and anxiety this has caused. She 
asks that AIB engages with her and her advisers to find a resolution. And engages with her 
ex-husband to ensure he meets his responsibilities.  
Our investigator said AIB had allowed enough time to see if Ms Ds financial circumstances 
would improve, and to find a resolution after matrimonial proceedings completed. There was 
nothing to suggest Ms Ds situation would improve so that shed be able to set up a payment 
plan. The investigator said while Ms Ds ex-husband was also responsible AIB couldnt force 
him to engage. And AIB didnt have to accept an offer to repay part of the mortgage. It was 
entitled to sell the property and pursue Ms D and her ex-husband for any shortfall.
Ms D didnt agree. She said the property her ex-husband owns and lives in is worth more 
than the mortgaged property, and he has substantial pension income. Ms D cant understand 
why AIB is pursuing her rather than her ex-husband. Ms D provided a letter from her solicitor 
and described the effect all this is having on her and the children.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has been in financial difficulty for some years. The last payment made to the mortgage 
account was in 2013. AIB took recovery action and was granted an order for possession in 
late 2016. Action was held to allow Ms D and her ex-husband to make proposals for paying 
the mortgage. The stay on the order for possession was lifted at the end of 2018. 
Ms D says AIB should take action against her ex-husband, who she says has assets and a 
higher income than her. Shes described how the current situation came about, and why she 
feels its unfair. Some of the issues Ms D raises would be better dealt with by a court as part 
of matrimonial proceedings: I wont be looking into those issues here. Instead, Ill look into 
how AIB has dealt with Ms Ds mortgage account and if its treated her fairly.
With a joint mortgage, the borrowers are jointly and severally responsible for the debt. So 
AIB can ask either or both of Ms D and her ex-husband for payment. 
When borrowers take out a mortgage the money they borrow (the loan) is secured on their 
property by a charge (known as a mortgage). If the loan isnt repaid by the borrowers, the 
lender can take possession and sell the property to recover its money.
While Ms D and her ex-husband are both liable for repaying the loan, the loan is secured on 
the property Ms D lives in. If the loan isnt repaid AIB can, ultimately, sell this property to try 
to recover its money. 
Ms D says its unfair that AIB has sought possession of her home, while allowing her ex-
husband to continue to live in his home (which she says is worth more). I do understand why 
she feels this way. But AIB has a mortgage on Ms Ds home which means it can take action 
for possession to recover the money its owed. AIB doesnt, as far as Im aware, have a 
charge on her ex-husbands property. I dont think it was unfair for AIB to look to the security 
property  the house Ms D lives in  to recover the debt.
I can see that, in the past, Ms D offered £100,000 to settle the debt. In late 2019 Ms Ds ex-
husband offered about £190,000 in settlement of the debt. At that time the mortgage balance 
was about £270,000. Ms D says the property is worth £150,000 and its unreasonable that 
AIB didnt accept the offer. 
AIB says the offer wasnt acceptable as there were no proposals to pay the shortfall.
I have to be fair to both parties here. If the mortgaged property is sold, the proceeds will be 
used to repay the mortgage, or part of it if theres a shortfall. AIB can ask Ms D and her ex-
husband to pay any shortfall, either as a lump sum or over time. Ms D says her ex-husband 
has assets and an income. If so, AIB has a reasonable prospect of recovering all of most of 
the debt. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for it to decline the offer.
Ms D says shes engaged with AIB throughout, and I understand she wants to find a solution 
that allows her to stay in her home. Unfortunately, Ms D hasnt been able to make a proposal 
that is acceptable to AIB. Its clear that Ms D cant repay the mortgage in a sustainable way 
from her income. And despite action being stayed to allow time for her ex-husband to make 
proposals acceptable to AIB, he hasnt done so. 
AIB hasnt received a payment into the mortgage account since 2013. This means the debt 
owed is increasing. If the property is in negative equity there will be a shortfall debt to pay 
after it is sold  and this shortfall debt will increase as time goes on. 
Im very sorry for how things have turned out for Ms D and I know she will be disappointed. 
But I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require AIB to stop 
possession action, or to accept a part payment of the debt in full and final settlement.
What happens now?
I have to be fair to all parties here. Ms D and her ex-husband borrowed the money, and in 
fairness they do have to repay it. I cant see theres a solution here that avoids the secured 
property (the house Ms D lives in) being sold. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say lenders should not enforce repossessions, 
except in exceptional circumstances, before 1 April 2021. AIB should take current and any 
further guidance into account.I must remind AIB of its duty to treat Ms D fairly, including in relation to the recovery of any 
shortfall. And it should of course take guidance issued by the regulator into account. But 
ultimately if Ms D and her ex-husband cant repay the mortgage, or agree an acceptable 
proposal for repayment with AIB, it will be entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman