DRN-3949642
The complaint
Mr A complains Amtrust Europe Limited have failed to reimburse legal costs under his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, I include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Mr A had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust. When they rejected a claim for cover 
to pursue his home insurers whod declined a claim following damage to his property, he 
brought a complaint about Amtrust to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Before the Financial Ombudsman had decided that complaint, Mr A appointed legal 
representatives to pursue the home insurer. They negotiated a settlement on his behalf, and 
he paid their fees. 
Another ombudsman decided Mr As earlier complaint about Amtrust in November 2021. 
They said it wasnt fair for Amtrust to decline Mr As claim based on certain policy exclusions 
and Amtrust should consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
After the ombudsman had issued their decision, Mr A asked Amtrust to pay the costs hed 
incurred. Amtrust asked Mr A to provide information about the case and the costs from the 
legal representative so they could consider his claim. But he couldnt get hold of the 
documents they required. He felt the other ombudsmans decision meant Amtrust should pay 
his costs in any event. And he complained when they failed to.
Amtrust didnt uphold his complaint. They disagreed the other ombudsmans decision meant 
they should automatically cover his claim. They said it meant they had to consider the claim 
without referring to the exclusions theyd relied on previously to decline it, but subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And to consider the claim on that basis, they 
needed to see the documents theyd asked Mr A to provide.
Since Mr A didnt agree, he brought the complaint Im considering here to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator came to the view that it was reasonable for Amtrust to 
assess Mr As claim before paying out and fair they should ask for evidence before they did. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, so his complaints been passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr As strength of feeling about whats happened. And, given his understanding of the 
other ombudsmans decision, I can understand why hes unhappy Amtrust havent paid his 
costs. But the other ombudsmans decision didnt say Amtrust should simply accept the 
claim and pay his costs. They were obliged to consider his claim ignoring the exclusions 
theyd previously relied on to decline Mr As claim. But they were entitled to take into account 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy in considering his claim. 
The policy terms and conditions include that no cover is provided for costs and expenses   
Mr A has incurred if he doesnt provide evidence or information Amtrust reasonably require 
to establish whether support can be provided under the policy.
Amtrust asked Mr A to provide information that included his legal representatives file  so 
they could understand the nature of the claim hed made against the home insurer  and a 
breakdown of the costs hed paid.
I appreciate the difficulties Mr A has faced in getting hold of that information. And I note the 
points hes made, including that:
details of the claim he was making against the home insurer should be clear from the 
claim he made on the LEI policy originally
the information hes already provided about the work his legal representative did and 
the costs he paid should be enough to satisfy Amtrust
Amtrust can make further enquiries of the home insurers whose details hes provided 
if they require additional information 
I dont think Amtrust have treated Mr A unfairly in asking for more information. Its 
reasonable for them to check what claim Mr A made against the home insurers. It might 
have changed in some regards since he made his original claim on the policy. Amtrust told 
Mr A the full details and evidence of his claim werent explored then as theyd taken the view 
the claim wasnt covered. And the nature of the claim actually made against the home 
insurer might affect whether Mr As claim is covered. 
Only reasonable legal costs are covered under the policy. Without more detail of the work 
carried out, it may be difficult for Amtrust to assess, for example, whether all the costs are 
covered or whether the rate charged was reasonable. 
Its Mr As responsibility under the terms of the policy to provide the information to support 
his claim. Its not something the Financial Ombudsman Service would do on Mr As behalf, 
and I wouldnt expect Amtrust to either, although I note they tried to contact the legal 
representative when he was finding it difficult to get the information theyd asked for.
I think Amtrust have treated Mr A fairly in handling his claim and dealt with it promptly as Id 
expect. Theyve made clear the information they need to see. Theyve tried to contact the 
legal representatives themselves without success. And they arent responsible for any 
unreasonable delays, despite Mr As concerns about that. 
I understand from Amtrusts response to Mr As complaint that they havent made a further 
decision about his claim yet. So, he has the chance to provide more information if he can 
obtain it. Id encourage Mr A to send Amtrust any documents he has about his dispute with 
the home insurer that he hasnt previously sent them in case its sufficient for them to come 
to a view about cover. And Id encourage Amtrust to remind Mr A exactly whats outstanding 
so hes clear about that.  
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr A will be disappointed, as things stand, I 
dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman