The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his business how long it took Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) to 
decline his claim on his complete retailer insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ts business was a victim of an arson attack on 30 July 2018 causing damage throughout 
the premises. Mr T made a claim to Allianz.
Allianz says it sent a loss adjuster on 1 August and soon after a forensic expert was also 
instructed. It received the preliminary reports mid-August.
During the investigation it was found the intruder alarm wasnt working. So, this had to be 
investigated further. The further forensic report of the alarm panel and alarm activity reports 
indicated the alarm hadnt been working since November 2017. 
On 26 October, Allianz informed Mr T that they reserve their rights to carry out further 
investigations as the claim couldnt proceed without the issue of the alarm being resolved 
and it also wanted to look into the building sum insured as its loss adjuster had indicated that 
the amount was inadequate. 
A follow up meeting was arranged on 12 November with Allianz loss adjuster, Mr T and Mr 
Ts claims assessor. And few days later a mandate was sent to Mr T to sign and return. This 
allowed Allianz to contact the alarm company to make further enquiries and to obtain a copy 
of the Police crime report. Allianz received the signed mandate back on 27 November. The 
enquires with the alarm company were made the same day and Allianz sent the request to 
for the crime report on 11 December.
The alarm company returned information to the insurer late December but unfortunately the 
police report although chased wasnt received until 25 February 2019. 
Allianz then wrote to Mr T on 28 March 2019 to confirm that the breach in the security 
condition was relevant to the loss and the claim was declined. 
Mr T says the delay in providing a response to the claim resulted in an estimated £40,000 
worth of losses over the Christmas period. 
Allianz didnt agree that there were any unreasonable delays before the crime report was 
obtained. However, it acknowledged that there was a delay from receiving the crime report 
to giving its final answer in March, so it awarded £300 for the distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong 
throughout the life of the claim, accept for the months delay from when the crime report was 
DRN-1580085received and informing Mr T of the outcome. But he thought the £300 Allianz had offered for 
this was fair and reasonable.
Mr T said looking at the details - provided by the investigators view its probably not 
surprising it took 8 months to reject the claim. However, he thinks it brings into question as 
to whether Allianz did their best to mitigate the on-going damage caused by the delay, with 
damaged stock awaiting their decision. Mr T also thinks the change in loss adjuster during 
the case added to the timescale. Mr T said Allianz had concluded at the end of October that 
the alarm wasnt working properly so he feels as this is ultimately what they declined the 
claim on then they shouldve been able to give their answer sooner and is unsure what they 
expected to get out of the police report. Mr T has therefore asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
I can see our investigator provided a detailed timeline of the events and the background 
above has also given a summary of events. So, I dont intend to reiterate this as Mr T 
acknowledges in his response to our investigators view that looking at the details, its 
probably not surprising it took 8 months to reject the claim. 
Ive looked through the timeline of events and Ive not identified any unreasonable delays 
from when the claim was instigated to Allianz in July 2018 to receiving the crime report in 
February 2019. 
I understand Mr T thinks that Allianz couldve given the outcome to the claim in October 
2018. Ive looked into what was happening on the claim around this time. I can see the loss 
adjuster had to be changed. And I understand Mr T feels this wouldve ultimately led to 
further delays as they would have to start again. I would expect a new loss adjuster to of 
course familiarise themselves with the claim, but Ive not seen any evidence that this has 
caused any delay in the claim progressing. So, I dont agree with Mr T on this point. I can 
also see Allianz issued a formal reservation of rights letter to Mr T - this letter is to let the 
insured know that the insurer believes it might have grounds on which to reject a claim for 
breach of a condition precedent. 
However, under the Insurance Act 2015, an insurer cant simply decline a claim because of a 
breached condition, unless its material to the loss. So, I can see prior to the letter Allianz 
were investigating the breach and after they were investigating how material to the loss it 
was. Im not persuaded that this line of enquiry was unreasonable, and it couldve led to a 
different outcome for Mr T. I therefore dont think Allianz did anything wrong in extending its 
investigation and it had kept Mr T informed. 
Mr T feels Allianz didnt do their best to mitigate the on-going damage caused by the delay, 
with damaged stock awaiting their decision. And Mr T feels his incurred losses in the run up 
to Christmas which he estimated at £40,000 in earnings.  Ive thought carefully about this but 
ultimately the claim was not covered and claims of this nature can take time to be 
investigated. As a reservation of rights letter was issued in October it alerted Mr T to the fact 
that some element of his claim or his whole claim may not be covered. So, Mr T had the 
opportunity to take the necessary steps to protect his potentially uninsured interests. So, Im 
not persuaded Allianz did anything wrong and I wont be asking it to cover these costs.Mr T has also said he doesnt understand what the Insurer expected to get out of the crime 
report that they held on for. A crime report often forms a part of an insurance investigation. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable that Allianz wanted to see this. As things like the time 
the police were notified of the fire and how it was notified couldve been important as well as 
the enquiry into the arson itself. So, I think Allianz acted fairly.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr Ts business was a victim of an arson attack. But I do think 
Allianz handled the claim as Id expect it to. However, I agree there was a delay from when 
Allianz received the crime report in February to it giving Mr T its final answer on the claim in 
March 2019. I can see Allianz has offered £300 compensation for this delay and I think that 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be asking Allianz to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman