DRN-3544117
Complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to process a 
request to remove a telephone number from its records. This led to confidential information 
regarding a purchase being disclosed to a non-account holder. 
Background
When NatWest investigated Mr Ws complaint it accepted that Mr Ws request to have his 
parents telephone number removed from his correspondence details, in 2020, wasnt 
actioned. And this led to a call being made to this number when NatWest wished to verify a 
transaction that was attempted on Mr Ws account. It offered Mr W £100 for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. Mr W remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint 
to our service.
Mr Ws complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He thought what NatWest had 
already paid Mr W was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Given Mr Ws initial submissions and his response to our adjudicators assessment, I do 
want to start by reiterating that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of the 
financial services industry. So I simply dont have the power to make the directions  in 
relation to changes to NatWests business processes, information technology systems and 
staff training  that Mr W is seeking here.
All Im able to do is look at here is whether what NatWest has already done to put things 
right, for what it has already agreed went wrong, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr Ws complaint. And thats what Ive done. 
It isnt in dispute that NatWest failed to remove Mr Ws parents telephone number from its 
records when Mr W requested this in 2020 and this led to issues when Mr W went to make a 
payment in October 2021. NatWest has already paid Mr W £100 for this. 
Mr W says the amount paid doesnt reflect the amount of time he spent attempting to resolve 
the matter with NatWest and he believes it should compensate him for his time at the hourly 
rate he usually gets paid. But when considering at awards for distress and inconvenience we 
dont usually consider a consumers hourly rate. Instead we look at the overall impact of 
what the firm got wrong.
I do accept that Mr W did experience an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of 
NatWests actions, his difficulties in making his purchase and his father becoming aware of 
this. I also understand why having the details of his purchase being shared with his father in 
the way it was might have been upsetting and that the impact on Mr W was more than just 
minimal. 
However, I do think that matters were put right relatively quickly. And as our adjudicator also 
explained, were also unable to make awards for distress and inconvenience to third parties. 
Having taken all of this into account, Im satisfied that £100 is adequate amount of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced here  although I do 
appreciate Mr W doesnt agree that this is the case.
 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that what NatWest has done to 
put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mr W  especially as he clearly feels strongly about what happened. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman