DRN-4125219
The complaint
C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) did not credit points 
when they should have done, and they have provided poor customer service.
What happened
A director of C says that on 8 September 2022 he received an offer from AESEL regarding a 
branded corporate credit card offering him 40,000 points to a specified scheme if he applied 
for the corporate card and spent £3,000 in the first three months. This bonus would be paid 
in two instalments  30,000 points after the statement where the spending target was met 
and the remaining 10,000 points before 23 February 2023. Cs directors had cards sent to 
them and one of Cs directors says that these were issued to them with their name and the 
corporate entity. One of the directors of C says the directors hit the spending target, 
however, the bonus points were not added on or after the November 2022 statement which 
they should have been. 
One of Cs directors says they lost out on a potential £1,980 of value by the points being 
awarded late, preventing the directors from using the points to book flights over the 
Christmas period. He said he was also promised a call back from AESEL which didnt 
happen, despite him having numerous calls with AESEL. C made a complaint to AESEL.
AESEL partially upheld Cs complaint. They said their findings indicate that the spend for the 
30,000 bonus points was registered on their system as being achieved on 6 November 2022 
in line with the transactions previously made. They said they tried to transfer the points on 
the same date, however, the points transfer failed due to an isolated incident, although they 
successfully processed them on 6 December 2022. AESEL admitted that the call back was 
not honoured. AESEL paid one of the directors two £30 cheques, although a cheque had to 
be re-issued as he did not receive them both. C brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Cs complaint. He said this complaint could only be referred 
by C and the directors arent eligible. He said C cant suffer distress as a legal entity in its 
own right and he couldnt see C had been caused any loss due to the delay in the payment 
of the points as it would be the directors receiving the points. Our investigator explained our 
rules regarding eligible complainants. C asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill 
be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Our investigator has already explained our rules to C and he has explained who would be 
classed as an eligible complainant. Here, C is the eligible complainant and not the directors 
of C as individuals. As a result of this I cant make awards which I may have made to an 
individual consumer bringing a complaint about a personal account. For example, as C is a 
separate legal entity, it cant experience distress or pain and suffering, so I cant make 
awards for this. Instead, I will consider the impact of any AESELs errors on C directly, such 
as any financial, operational or reputational implications. 
AESEL said they had an isolated incident which meant the points werent credited until early 
December instead of 6 November. And they didnt give one of the directors a call back. This 
would have been distressing to the director himself, but as Ive previously mentioned, Im 
unable to award for distress here. 
So Ive considered if C has suffered a financial loss as a result of AESELs errors. But Im 
unable to demonstrate this. Im not persuaded that what happened here would cause any 
reputational damage to C. And Im not persuaded there was any operational impact on C as 
a result of what happened. There was inconvenience to the directors as they were unable to 
take flights in the run up to Christmas. But Ive seen no evidence that C was directly 
inconvenienced here which should result in compensation being awarded. I say this as the 
error appears to have affected the directors personally as opposed to C being directly 
inconvenienced as a result of their directors not being able to use the points for flights in the 
run up to Christmas. 
So while I have sympathy for the position the directors found themselves in personally, 
based on our rules, I cant say compensation is due to C directly based on the reasons Ive 
already given. So it follows I dont require AESEL to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman