DRN-3247272
The complaint
Mr W, Miss W and Mrs W complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
hasnt paid a claim under their travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. Ive referred only to Mr and Mrs W throughout this decision, for ease. But all 
references to Mr and Mrs W include all persons insured under this policy, where relevant. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W and their family held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was taken out in January 2020 and covered travel to all European 
destinations excluding Cyprus, Spain, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands and Turkey.  
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. On 23 March 2020, the 
UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as 
lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other 
than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
Mr and Mrs W were due to travel abroad on 16 August 2020. However, on 2 July 2020, their 
airline cancelled their flights due to the impact of Covid-19 on worldwide travel. 
On 2 July 2020, the FCDO was still advising against all but essential international travel. 
From 4 July 2020, travel to certain countries became exempt from this advice but, on 16 
August 2020, Mr and Mrs Ws intended destination wasnt on the list of countries which were 
exempt from FCDO advice against all but essential international travel. 
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes for their non-refundable, 
unused accommodation costs. Great Lakes said the circumstances of their claim werent 
covered under the cancellation section of their policy, and that their policy had an exclusion 
for claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the 
attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think he could fairly ask 
Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I understand that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ws trip was outside of their control and 
arose from an unexpected and unprecedented situation. I also understand that Mr and Mrs 
W bought their insurance policy before the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-
19 could have been foreseen by either insurers or consumers. But this doesnt automatically 
mean their claim is covered by their policy. 
No insurance policy covers every situation. An insurer is free to decide what level of risk it is 
prepared to cover in return for the premium charged for a policy, and its up to a policyholder 
to make sure they hold a level of cover that meets their needs. There were travel insurance 
policies available on the market at the time Mr and Mrs W bought this policy which did cover 
the cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO travel advice. 
Its not for me to tell Great Lakes what level of cover I think it should have offered, and Great 
Lakes was entitled to change the terms of the cover it subsequently offered after Covid-19 
became more widespread. My role is limited to considering whether I think Great Lakes fairly 
assessed Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy they 
purchased. 
Great Lakes obligations to Mr and Mrs W under its contract with them are limited by the 
terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. Mr and Mrs Ws policy, at 
page 24 under the heading Cancellation or Curtailment, says that Great Lakes will pay for 
certain non-refundable costs if a policyholder cant travel for one of the following reasons:
Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with whom 
You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12 
hours in the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or 
train journey, forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or
Industrial Action (of which You were unaware at the time You either booked the Trip 
or purchased this policy, whichever is the latest), adverse weather conditions, or the 
mechanical breakdown of, or accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or 
being subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current 
legislation.
Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events), 
up to 7 days before the commencement of Your Trip.
Your compulsory quarantine.
You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by the 
emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons. This cover does not 
apply to cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities 
(whether war be declared or not), civil unrest, revolution, rebellion, act of foreign 
enemy or any similar event. I dont think Mr and Mrs Ws trip was cancelled for any of these listed, insured reasons. 
I understand Mr W suffers from a number of pre-existing health conditions, which were 
declared to Great Lakes, but theres no evidence to suggest that the reason Mr and Mrs W 
didnt travel was because Mr W himself was required to self-isolate at home in a manner 
which I think the policy wording Ive quoted above would provide cover for.
Instead, I think Mr and Mrs W didnt travel because their flights were cancelled by their 
airline as a result of travel restrictions surrounding Covid-19. This isnt a reason which is 
covered as a listed, insured event under the Cancellation or Curtailment section of their 
policy and so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ws claim is covered under this section. Ive also 
reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, but I dont think they held any 
cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in. 
Having reviewed the relevant policy documentation in this case, I dont think there are any 
grounds upon which it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to step away from a 
strict interpretation of the policy wording and accept Mr and Mrs Ws claim regardless. 
This is because the Cancellation or Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy contains a 
specific exclusion which says:
What is not covered: 
o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country  
I think lockdown and travel restrictions due to the spread of Covid-19 led to the cancellation 
of Mr and Mrs Ws trip. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of their holiday not 
covered as a listed, insured event under their policy, I think the exclusion quoted above also 
applies to their claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W. I understand they had little choice but to cancel their 
trip, they spent a considerable amount of money on their accommodation and that things 
have been difficult for them financially. But their claim isnt covered under their policy and I 
dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim. 
This means I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W, Miss W and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, Miss W and 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman