DRN-3989096
The complaint
Miss W complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with MI Vehicle 
Finance Limited (who Ill call Mann Island) was misrepresented to her and that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss W, but Im not persuaded that Mann Island need to take any 
action here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss W acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Air conditioning and misrepresentation
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) is relevant here. In broad terms this means 
that any negotiations between Miss W and the credit broker or supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by them as an agent of the lender (Mann Island). 
If Miss W was given a false statement of fact during those negotiations that was a significant 
issue in persuading her to enter into the agreement then Id think the car had been 
misrepresented to her and Id ask Mann Island to take some action.
Im not persuaded that Miss W was given false information. Whilst the advert for the car 
didnt provide comprehensive details of the specification or features, it also didnt suggest 
the car had features it didnt have. Whilst Miss W was disappointed the car didnt have air 
conditioning I cant say it was something that was misrepresented to her or that would have 
given the business a reason to accept the return of the car in August 2022.
Distance selling
The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013 (CCRs) came into force on 13 June 2014 and replaced the Consumer Protection 
(Distance Selling) Regulations 2000. But the CCRs dont apply to hire purchase agreements 
such as the one that Miss W had with Mann Island as hire purchase agreements have their 
own withdrawal or cancellation rights under the Consumer Credit Act (1974).
Those rights include a short term right to reject goods if theres something wrong with them 
in the first 30 days, without giving the business an opportunity to repair the goods. But 
theres no right of return because the goods may have been sold at a distance, so I dont 
think Mann Island did anything wrong when rejecting Miss Ws claim that she could return 
the car on that basis.
Satisfactory quality
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Mann Island, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss W. The car here was 
almost five years old and had already completed about 81,630 miles. So I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free as, for instance, they may consider would 
be likely on a brand new car.
Miss W complained of several issues with the car. She said:
 The interior lights didnt work.
 The 12v charge points didnt work.
 Two front tyres were completely worn.
 The side of the door close was cracked and didnt close as it should.
 The boot had a compartment with a broken opening.
 There was graffiti in the sun visor, masked over with black tape.
 The boot door when open was leaking water.
I think these were the sort of issues that could be considered fair wear and tear on a car of 
this age and mileage, and I dont therefore think it would be fair to hold Mann Island 
responsible.
Miss W has also complained that the car broke down in late August because the timing belt 
and auxiliary belt had frayed and snapped.
I find Miss Ws evidence of what happened when the car broke down to be inconsistent. The 
recovery service engineer explained that on 31 August 2022 he noted there was no timing 
belt, auxiliary belt, timing belt cover, or undertray on the car.
He could find no sign of the missing belts and no fragments of the belt were found in the 
engine compartment.Miss W subsequently had her own mechanic take a look at the car after it had been 
recovered to her house. That mechanic noted what he considered to be fragments of the 
belts in the undertray. Its clear the undertray wasnt present when the car broke down as the 
recovery engineer has explained so, and the photographs he took at the time show the tray 
is missing.
It's unclear how the undertray could subsequently resurface and how, if the tray wasnt fitted 
at the time of the breakdown, it could have collected any belt fragments Miss W says were 
generated.
Im not therefore persuaded that there is evidence the belts snapped or frayed and it seems 
more likely from the evidence I have, that they were simply removed.
Mann Island have explained that they havent checked the car for faults that may have been 
caused by the belts snapping/being removed. 
Ive thought about asking Mann Island to diagnose the problem with the car as, if the engine 
was running without belts, I think its likely there would be significant damage to the engine. 
Ive decided not to ask for a report on possible faults and Ive done that because, even if 
there was a fault with the car now, I dont think it would be possible to demonstrate that fault 
had come about as a result of a fault that was developing when the car was supplied to 
Miss W. The evidence suggests its more likely than not that the belts were simply removed, 
and in those circumstances, if there is a fault with the engine now, it will most likely have 
been caused by that action, and not by a pre-existing condition.
Ultimately, Im not therefore persuaded that this car was of unsatisfactory quality and, as I 
dont think Miss W had any right to return the car, or that it was misrepresented to her, I am 
not asking Mann Island to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman