DRN-3934823
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to 
him, and increased his credit limit, when he could not afford it.
What happened
This was not a loan. Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being 
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. 
The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Briefly, Mr S applied for a credit facility of £1,200 in July 2018. Drafty approved a credit 
facility of £790. The limit was increased in January 2020 to £900 and it has remained at that.  
Mr S had declared, when the facility was approved that his monthly income for his full time 
employment was £2,025 and his monthly expenditure was £1,689. Drafty says that it carried 
out credit checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr S. On the assumption that Mr S drew down the full £790 on the 
first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal instalments 
then the total amount payable would have been just under £1,062.43. This would have 
equated to about £88 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Ss salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6 
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr S 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
Mr S, through his representative, complained to Drafty in October 2021 and received a final 
response letter (FRL) in November 2021 in which it said that it was content to put things right 
for Mr S from 22 December 2020. The representative wrote back to ask why it had upheld 
the complaint from that date and the answer from Drafty was that Mr S use of the account in 
the months up to that point demonstrated to it that: 
there is a possibility that allowing the continued use of the line beyond 
December 22, 2020 may not have been sustainable in the long term. So, we are 
partially agreeing to your complaint.
To put things right, we'd like to take the following steps. We will:
 Refund all interest and fees incurred due to redraws after December 22, 2020
 Pay an extra 8% simple interest on this amount. 20% of this will have to be withheld 
for tax, as Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) tell us we must do this
 Adjust this refund amount against any outstanding balances you have with us
 Give you a certificate of the tax we have withheld (for use in any discussions with 
HMRC)
 Contact credit reference agencies to remove any negative marks on your file as a 
result of using your credit line after December 22, 2020.
Mr S representative asked for more information about the uphold date being chosen as 
22 December 2020 and Drafty replied to add some detail. 
Despite that response Mr S representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service indicating to us that Drafty had not upheld Mr S complaint. Which was 
not strictly correct. 
In the meantime, Drafty had suspended the account on 5 October 2021  soon after Mr S 
had complained to it  and recently we have been told that Mr S paid the account down, 
settled and closed it on 15 June 2022. 
In June 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. And in relation to that part where 
Drafty ought to monitor the account, she agreed with the uphold date of 22 December 2020. 
The outstanding issue is an unresolved detail surrounding the redress and that is the reason 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr S disagreed with the 22 December 2020 uphold date  as his representative rejected that 
when it referred the complaint to us on his behalf. And since then, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr S accepted our adjudicators view which was a similar outcome to that of 
Drafty. 
Drafty has not agreed with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint 
remains unresolved and I have considered it all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility. 
I need to explain to Mr S that upon first approaching Drafty in July 2018 it would not be 
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive 
financial review. Mr S was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit limit granted and 
the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period of time, Drafty 
was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mr S had enough 
disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £790. However I will say that its 
noticeable Mr S applied for a larger credit limit but having carried out its checks, the limit set 
by Drafty was £790, lower than Mr S had wanted. So I consider that a responsible approach 
after carrying out the right checks before approving the facility for Mr S.
Having looked at all that Mr S has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable 
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
Monitoring of the account 
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mr S account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. I refer to the 
Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which 
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One 
indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems that the 
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold was the same as that used by Drafty and that was 
that the continual repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted 
it to have done something rather than just allow that repayment pattern to continue. 
Mr S had provided us with a copy of his credit file entries and some of those cover the period 
around December 2020, and our adjudicator had reviewed them and could see that he was 
having difficulties managing his money. 
So, as we are all agreed on this part then Ill consider the redress paragraphs which seems 
to be the sticking point between the parties. 
The redress calculations issue 
There were several actions Drafty could have taken in December 2020. But as none of these 
were taken and it agrees about that, its been passed to me to decide what Drafty ought to 
do fairly and reasonably to put things right. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what 
they already owe. Where Mr S repayment record suggested he was already struggling to 
repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on 
Mr S balance is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mr S at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached where 
Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr S to repay what was 
owed, then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this balance. That date it has said 
was from 22 December 2020 onwards. And I agree.   
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree but thats my decision. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr S. 
Putting things right
My understanding that the current state of the account is that it has been paid off. So Drafty 
needs to do as follows:
Re-work Mr S credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from 22 December 2020 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr S credit file, it 
should backdate this to 22 December 2020.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mr S as outlined in my decision above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman