DRN-3148402
The complaint
Mr C and Miss M complain that Accord Mortgages Limited wont agree to remove Mr C from 
their joint mortgage, allowing it to continue in Miss Ms sole name.  
What happened
Mr C and Miss M took out a joint, interest only mortgage with Accord in 2007. The mortgage 
was repayable over a term of 30 years, when it was taken out. And there have been no 
amendments to this term since.
Mr C left the property in 2015 and Miss M has said she has been repaying the mortgage 
since that time. And theyve indicated that Mr C has given up his interest in the property.
I can see Miss M contacted Accord in 2015, 2018 and 2020 and asked for the mortgage to 
be changed into her sole name and for Mr C to be removed as a borrower. This was with 
Mr Cs agreement, as he was keen for their finances to be separated. As part of her request 
in 2020 she also asked about changing the mortgage to a repayment basis, after Mr C was 
removed.
Accord declined the request on each occasion. Information it has provided indicates this was 
because it felt the Miss M could not afford the mortgage on her own, according to its lending 
criteria.
Mr C and Miss M then brought their complaint to our service. Miss M says she has been 
paying the mortgage herself since 2015, so feels it is affordable to her. And she and Mr C 
are both unhappy that Accord will not allow the change and allow them to finally separate 
their finances.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr C 
and Miss Ms complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Accord has declined the request to remove Mr C from the mortgage on three occasions. And 
from the information I have the reasons for this appear to be that it doesnt think Miss M can 
afford the mortgage on her own, as well as there not being a suitable repayment plan in 
place to clear the mortgage balance at the end of its term.
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, particularly around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. These rules are set out in 
the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no 
additional borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the 
mortgage that affect its affordability. However, the rules go on to explain that removing a 
borrower would generally be considered material to affordability. So, this rule isnt applicable 
in Mr C and Miss Ms case.
However, there were other rules introduced that I think would allow Accord to waive its 
assessment of affordability here. MCOB 11.7.1, part of the transitional arrangements 
following MMR, says that a lender need not carry out an affordability assessment, if:
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing  except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance;
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests.
Under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can waive an affordability assessment. The rules do not say that a lender 
must waive its affordability assessment. But Im of the view that, if the scenario allows an 
affordability assessment to be waived, it wouldnt be fair for Accord to decline an application 
on the basis of affordability, if allowing the application would be in the customers best 
interests. That said, it might be appropriate to take the affordability assessment into account 
as part of its consideration of best interests.
Here Mr C and Miss M took out their existing mortgage in 2007  before 26 April 2014. They 
were not requesting any additional borrowing and Ive seen nothing to suggest they had 
borrowed more since 26 April 2014. So, with that in mind, if the proposed transaction  
moving the mortgage into Miss Ms sole name  was in Mr C and Miss Ms best interests, 
Accord was not required to carry out an affordability assessment and could proceed with the 
change.
Accord does not believe Miss M can afford the mortgage on her own, based on its lending 
criteria. And, in the event she couldnt, the risk to her would be greater, as she alone would 
be liable to make the repayments.
While the affordability of the ongoing mortgage is important to the borrowers interests, it isnt 
the only determining factor. Mr C and Miss M have said that Mr C left the property in 2015. 
This mortgage though continues to bind their financial affairs together. I think its reasonable, 
after all this time, that theyd want to end this financial association  so that they can move 
on from it.
And the parties all seem to agree and acknowledge that Miss M has been paying the 
mortgage herself since 2015, without issue. So, she has in effect assumed the sole burden 
for doing so without assistance from Mr C. And she has a track record of maintaining 
payments successfully.Removing Mr C from the mortgage would mean Accord could not ask him for payment, in 
the event Miss M fell into difficulty. But there is no indication that Mr C has contributed to the 
mortgage since 2015 or that he would do so moving forward. And Mr C and Miss M are 
anyway jointly and severally liable for the debt. So, this doesnt present any greater risk to 
Miss M. The risk is largely as it always was if she is unable to make repayments. And it 
certainly doesnt create a greater risk to Mr C.
So, taking everything into account, I think the change they have requested, to remove Mr C 
from the mortgage, would be in their best interests.
As I mentioned, the MMR also brought in stricter rules around the assessment of repayment 
plans for interest only mortgages. And the notes Accord has provided indicate that the lack 
of a definitive repayment plan here is another reason it has refused the requested change.
The transitional arrangements introduced as part of MMR also address this scenario. 
MCOB 11.7.3 essentially explains that a lender can forego an assessment of the repayment 
strategy, in line with the new rules, if the mortgage was taken out prior to 26 April 2014 (as 
was the case here), there was no additional borrowing being requested or taken since 
26 April 2014 (which again based on what Ive seen hasnt happened here) and the 
proposed transaction was in the borrowers interests.
The lack of a repayment vehicle or plan, to clear the balance at the end of the mortgage term 
in approximately 16 years, does leave uncertainty. But the mortgage is already on an 
interest only basis. So, I dont think this uncertainty is altered in any way by this mortgage 
being in Miss Ms name alone, rather than it being held jointly. The position is largely the 
same. So, because of this and for the reasons Ive already explained, I think the requested 
change was in Mr C and Miss Ms best interests.
All this means that I think Accord could, under the transitional arrangements, have allowed 
the requested change to the mortgage. And I think this is the case on all three occasions 
when this was requested  as the rules Ive talked about were already in effect. I dont think 
its decision was fair, on any of the occasions the request was made, in the circumstances. 
And I think it should now allow the requested change and remove Mr C from the mortgage.
I understand that the mortgage currently has an interest rate deal that means, if it is repaid in 
full, an early repayment charge (ERC) will be applied. As Ive said, I think Accord should 
remove Mr C from the account, which shouldnt I think mean that the mortgage is repaid in 
full. If, however, for administrative purposes, Accord thinks it has to process the removal of 
Mr C as the mortgage being repaid and a new one, on the same terms, being established in 
its place, I dont think it would be fair for it to charge an ERC. As Ive said, Im not 
recommending the mortgage be repaid. So, this would be generated entirely down to 
Accords processes. But in addition, as Ive said, I think Accord acted unfairly by not 
agreeing to remove Mr C from the mortgage, since 2015. And if this error hadnt been made, 
Mr C couldve been removed before this interest rate deal was established  without the 
mortgage being subject to an ERC. So, I dont think it is fair that one be applied.
As Ive said, the request to remove Mr C from the mortgage has been made at least three 
times since 2015. And I dont think Accords refusal to do this was fair on any of those 
occasions. Accords refusal to agree to this request has meant Mr C and Miss Ms financial 
affairs have continued to be tied together unnecessarily for several years. Which I think is 
likely to have caused them both unnecessary distress  as their relationship had ended and 
this issue was a constant reminder of that. And I think it would be fair for Accord to make a 
payment to each of them, to address the upset caused by this.Ive thought about what would be fair, and in the circumstances, I think a payment of £250 
each, to Mr C and Miss M separately, would be reasonable. This is because Accords unfair 
refusal of their request has meant theyve had to continue contact, over an understandably 
sensitive subject, unnecessarily. Which theyve indicated has led to further tension between 
them. I understand the breakdown in their relationship wouldve, to an extent, caused this 
anyway. But this issue has prolonged that unnecessarily. And, as Ive said, it continued a 
financial association between them, when this should reasonably have been ended sooner.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr C and Miss M both said they accepted my findings and recommendations.
Accord acknowledged that it couldve done more to help Mr C and Miss M since 2015 and 
that it was evident the transitional arrangements hadnt been considered. So, it will now 
proceed with an application for a transfer of equity and waive its affordability assessment.
It said this will involve a telephone appointment between Miss M and a mortgage adviser in 
which income and expenditure will be discussed. But an affordability assessment will not be 
completed. It also said that the mortgage would remain on an interest only basis following 
the transfer of equity application - the risks of which will be raised with Miss M during the 
conversation. And any application for the mortgage to change to a repayment basis will be 
assessed separately, and subject to an affordability assessment.
Accord said that legal advisers will need to be appointed by Miss M and it and that there is 
an administration fee of £180 that would need to be paid as part of the application.
It confirmed that an early repayment charge would not be applicable when removing Mr C 
from the mortgage. And it also agreed to my recommendation that it pay Mr C and Miss M 
£250 each for the distress caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have largely agreed with my provisional findings, so Im not inclined to depart 
significantly from them. Im pleased to hear that an early repayment charge will not be 
applicable as part of the transfer of equity. And I agree that the transfer of equity, removing 
Mr C from the mortgage, would not include any change to the repayment basis of the 
mortgage and that Miss M would need to contact Accord separately, after the transfer of 
equity has been completed, to discuss this.
Accord has said it will move ahead with an application to remove Mr C from the mortgage 
while waving an affordability assessment. But it has said this will require a telephone 
appointment to take place.
I accept that it may well be part of Accords process for a telephone interview to take place 
as part of a transfer of equity application. And I dont think it is unreasonable that one may 
need to take place here. But Id like to be clear, while I think it is reasonable that this call 
happens for completeness, my provisional finding was that Accord should remove Mr C from 
the mortgage  not simply consider a new application to do so. And I see no reason to 
depart from that. So, while Accord can carry out the telephone interview, this should be done promptly and 
prioritised  certainly within a couple of weeks of confirmation of acceptance of this decision 
(if Mr C and Miss M do accept my decision). And Im still of the view that, in the 
circumstances, Accord must remove Mr C from the mortgage. And again it should do so 
promptly  as in my view this shouldve been completed as far back as 2015.
Accord has also said that there is an administrative fee of £180 payable when considering a 
transfer of equity application, as well as the need for legal representation to complete 
necessary work.
I dont think it is unreasonable that the relevant fees be applied, in line with how any other 
transfer of equity application would be considered. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Accord incorrectly turned down a request for a transfer of equity three times, 
before the complaint was made to our service. And if the relevant administration fee was 
paid during any of those three applications, before they were wrongly declined, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for a further fee to be applied now. So, in the event an equivalent 
fee has been paid previously, Id expect Accord to waive any further fees now.
With regard to the need to appoint legal advisers, I think this is reasonable, given the work 
required, in particular in relation to changes to the legal charge held in respect of the 
mortgage. But Id expect no cost for this to be passed onto Mr C and Miss M, beyond what is 
allowed in the terms and conditions of the mortgage. And, in the event similar costs were 
paid previously, as part of one of the previous applications that was incorrectly declined, 
again Id expect Accord to in fact waive any further fees for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr C and Miss Ms complaint.
To put things right I order Accord Mortgages Limited to;
Remove Mr C from the mortgage account as requested by he and Miss M.
Pay £250 to Mr C for the distress caused to him.
Separately pay £250 to Miss M for the distress caused to her.
Accord Mortgage Limited can fairly charge its standard fees for a transfer of equity 
application. But in the event Mr C and Miss M have already paid these as part of a previous 
application, which was incorrectly declined, Accord Mortgages Limited must waive these 
further fees.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman