DRN-3892199
The complaint
Mr K complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd delayed a withdrawal from his ISA to 
another account.
What happened
Mr K has an ISA account, a pension account and a general account with Vanguard. On 21 
October 2022 Vanguard sent him a notification to say the account fee would be collected 
soon. The following day Mr K asked how to make a withdrawal from his ISA.
Vanguard told Mr K that as a fee was outstanding, he wasnt able to make a withdrawal. 
Mr K made a card payment to cover the fee and was able to make an ISA withdrawal on 28 
October 2022.
Mr K complained as he didnt feel it was fair that he wasnt able to withdraw from his ISA 
whilst the fee was pending. He explained that it came out of his pension account usually and 
it didnt feel fair to restrict his ability to withdraw from a different account.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that Vanguard 
acted in line with its terms and gave Mr K all the information he needed to make a 
withdrawal. He said that it only took six days which he didnt feel was an unreasonable 
amount of time.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before Mr K asked about withdrawing money from his ISA he was told there was an 
outstanding fee due to be collected. Vanguard explained to him that it usually takes around 
eight days for the fee to come out of his account if there isnt any funds in his general 
account. Vanguard also told Mr K how he could pay the fee  this was on 24 October 2022  
the first working day after Mr Ks enquiry.
Vanguard has provided a copy of its terms which confirm that it may restrict withdrawals 
when charges are outstanding. I understand that Mr K doesnt feel its fair, but Im satisfied 
that Vanguard told Mr K how to pay his fees and gave him options which may have meant 
his withdrawal couldve gone ahead earlier.
As soon as Mr K paid the outstanding fee and it was cleared, Vanguard told him he was able 
to make the withdrawal. Mr K was able to withdraw his funds six days after he initially asked 
about it. I appreciate that he wanted it to happen immediately but I dont think Vanguard 
caused any delays here. It acted in line with its terms, kept Mr K informed and explained to 
him how the withdrawal could happen.
Ive noted Mr Ks point that he had a pension account with Vanguard still with funds in it so 
felt that there shouldnt be a restriction on withdrawing from his ISA. However, the fee was 
for all the accounts he held, and I dont think it was unreasonable for Vanguard to rely on its 
terms here and restrict the withdrawal until outstanding fees were paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman