DRN-1906554
The complaint
Mr D complains that (UKI) has unfairly refused his claim for damage caused by a water leak 
in his bathroom.
What happened
Mr Ds daughter noticed there was water damage in the kitchen late one might. Mr D 
realised there was water coming through his kitchen ceiling and got his neighbour to help 
him. He says they found a burst pipe/hose behind the vanity unit in the bathroom above the 
kitchen and turned the water off.
Mr D contacted UKI  getting through to the Home Emergency department. He was told they 
could send a plumber  but as he didnt have emergency cover it would cost him £175. Mr D 
got his own plumber who fixed the pipe.
UKI agreed to look at Mr Ds claim. It sent three contractors out in total  and eventually said 
it wasnt going to meet Mr Ds claim, as it thought the damage had built up gradually rather 
than because of the burst pipe.
Mr D complained but UKI wouldnt change its stance. He then brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask UKI to do more than it had. He thought the 
response from the home emergency department was fair  as Mr D didnt have cover hed 
have to pay for a plumber. And he looked at some still photos from videos taken by one of 
the three contractors that visited. He thought they showed the sort of damage that built up 
over time  and that a crucial piece of sealant around the bath beneath the shower was 
missing. He thought UKI could fairly rely on this to decline the claim.
Mr D doesnt think this is fair and has asked that an ombudsman decide this complaint.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D told us he contacted his insurer to report the escape of water when it happened. He 
says he was told it would cost £175 to get a plumber to him  so he found one elsewhere. 
Having looked at Mr Ds insurance, he hadnt bought emergency cover, so I cant conclude 
UKI was wrong to say there would be a charge for the plumber. He also called out of normal 
business hours, which explains why he was put through to the home emergency department. 
The sort of policy Mr D has covers the repair of damage caused by a problem  it doesnt 
cover repairing the problem itself. No doubt if Mr D had called in normal business hours hed 
have been given much the same information, but might not have had to make more than one 
call. I cant say that UKI did much wrong here.
No policy covers everything that might happen to the property insured. They are meant to 
cover unexpected problems that arise, rather than taking the place of a regular maintenance 
schedule, for example. The things that are covered are listed in the terms and conditions and 
are often called insured events.
When a customer makes a claim, its for them to show an insurer that an insured event has 
taken place. Mr D reported water escaping from a broken pipe in his bathroom  and that 
would qualify as an insured event.
If an insurer accepts that an insured event has taken place, then if it wants to refuse to meet 
the claim, the onus is then on it to show that an exception  a reason not to meet a claim  
has also occurred. In Mr Ds case, UKI said that the evidence from the assessors who visited 
the property showed the cause of the damage in Mr Ds home was more likely to be water 
getting between a bath and a wall where there was no sealant  especially as this was 
immediately below a shower. They thought the likely build-up of damage would be apparent 
from the state of the bath as it was mouldy. UKI also said that damp readings taken in the 
rest of the house after the reported leak didnt show any readings high enough to suggest 
the damage Mr D reported had been caused by the escape of water he described.
One of the assessors also said Mr D had mentioned that water was still coming through the 
damaged ceiling when they used the shower in the bathroom above.
UKI sent us some stills taken from videos provided by two of the assessors to support its 
position. I asked it to provide the full videos, which it did.
Ive watched these videos. Of the two contractors, one was a plumbing company used to 
assessing water damage and the other a company that carries out surveys and repairs for 
insurers. I understand the first of these visited only a day or so after the claim was made and 
the other a couple of weeks later.
The first assessor recorded damage to the floor in the bathroom  theres clear mould 
damage on the floor at the shower end of the bath. He didnt video the condition of the 
sealant at that end of the bath. But it does seem theres some water damage to the side 
panel of the bath and also, it seems to the bathroom ceiling  the sort of damage caused by 
high condensation in shower areas. Theres no commentary with this video.
The second assessor also provided a video of his findings and Ive listened to his 
commentary as he went around. In summary he says hes unsure what caused the damage 
but that Mr D and his family shouldnt be using the bathroom as theres clear damage 
beneath the bath. Thats apparent from his video of the underside of the kitchen ceiling 
where the plaster has been removed. That fits with his report that Mr D and his family were 
still using the shower. He did video the shower end of the bath and theres both no sealant at 
this end and a lot of black mould. Theres the same level of mould on the floor as before and 
similar water damage to the bath panel and the bathroom ceiling.
This assessor is also taking moisture readings as he moves through the property  and he 
says theres no sign of damp elsewhere in the house  including the carpets, the laminate 
floors downstairs and the kitchen walls. That doesnt seem to chime with Mr Ds description 
of water pouring through his home as Id expect to see some higher damp readings. It is of 
course possible Mr D cleared up the water quickly enough for it to have dried out in a few 
days. There is some lifting of the edges of the laminate flooring downstairs  but it appears 
to be widespread, and not the sort of damage that arises unless theres been standing water 
across an entire floor. The assessor does say the flooring is generally in poor condition. And 
hes noted that the carpet outside the bathroom is completely dry. Given the damp readings 
(normal) and Mr Ds description of how he cleared up the water I cant say the damage Mr D 
reports to his floors is the result of a one-off water leak.
The video shows only minor damage to one or two kitchen wall cabinets where some trim 
has lifted  although it doesnt appear to be in a place that would obviously be affected by 
water from the ceiling. Its inside the cabinet at the front edge in one cupboard, although 
there doesnt seem to be any damage to the doors. 
Theres clearly a fair amount of damage to the ceiling as part of this collapsed and had been 
removed by the time the assessors visited. I dont doubt Mr Ds recollections from the night, but it isnt apparent that the damage 
recorded fits with a leak from his bathroom sink. I have to say much of it looks like the sort of 
damage thats built up gradually because of the lack of sealant round the bath. It may well be 
that the burst pipe was the last straw  but I cant say it was the immediate cause of most of 
the damage.
Taking everything into account I have to conclude that it was reasonable of UKI to rely on 
the information it got when the property was assessed, and Im afraid I cant ask it to do 
more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is, for the reasons given above, that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman