DRN-4176081
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wise Payments Limited will not refund him for transactions he says he 
didnt agree to. Hed like the transactions refunded.
What happened
Mr R held an account with Wise. On 29 August 2022 a large sum of money was transferred 
into the account. The money was then transferred out in nine payments of $8,000. There 
were later payments into the account on 30 August and 31 August, which were also 
transferred out to the same beneficiary.
On 15 September 2022 Mr R contacted Wise to say these transactions werent him and 
asked for them to be reimbursed. Wise investigated, including asking Mr R further questions 
about the source of the funds. They also contacted the receiver of the funds and asked for 
their explanation of the payments. 
After some time, Wise responded to say that they could not see they were liable for 
reimbursing him and referred him to the terms of his account. Wise later closed his account.
Unhappy with this answer Mr R referred the complaint to our service. He said his account 
had been hacked. He questioned why Wises systems hadnt prevented the transactions 
from taking place. Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator felt there was no evidence that his account or device had 
been hacked. The payments had been set up using two-factor authentication, with 
messages sent to Mr Rs phone. The investigator also noted that it took over two weeks for 
Mr R to report the transactions as fraudulent, and he had completed other transactions on 
the account in the meantime. He also noted that Mr R initially told Wise he had sent the 
transactions to the wrong person. 
Mr R disagreed, providing evidence that his accounts had been logged in to from a country 
he wasnt in. He said he hadnt received any messages to his phone. He also submitted 
evidence of the illness and difficulties he faced. But this changed the investigators mind. As 
no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to deicide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The primary regulations for me to consider here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). These govern how payment service providers, such as Wise, should process 
payments, what information they should record, and crucially what they should do if 
something has gone wrong. According to the PSRs, generally when a payment leaves an 
account that the consumer didnt agree to, its up to the payment service provider to refund 
it. So, the key consideration for me here is whether Mr R authorised the transactions or 
allowed someone else to do so.
Looking at the evidence available, Im satisfied that its more likely than not the transactions 
were authorised.
Wise has presented the technical evidence of how the transactions took place. There are a 
number of different IP addresses used to log on, and I can see this triggered a notification 
from Wise to Mr Rs email. I can also see that the email address associated with the account 
changed several times in the weeks leading up to the disputed transactions  although the 
last email address used is the same as the one Mr R has been communicating with us 
through.
The technical evidence suggests that Mr Rs account was being logged in from two separate 
locations  which may be indicative of someone else accessing the account. But I also note 
that these logins were verified with a two-factor authentication delivered by SMS. I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr Rs phone number was changed around this time  and this 
same number has also been used to verify payments that Mr R hasnt disputed. I can also 
see there was a call to this number on 31 August, that was used to verify one of the disputed 
payments. 
Its difficult to see how these transactions could have taken place without Mr Rs knowledge 
as his phone would have been necessary for them to be set up. And hes not indicated that 
anyone else had access to his phone, or that he shared any security information with anyone 
else. Hes suggested his phone may have been the victim of a phishing attack but has not 
submitted evidence to show this is the case. 
There is a payment out of the account on 30 August for $4,000 that hasnt been disputed. I 
would have thought that when setting up this payment Mr R may notice that the balance on 
the account was over $70,000 less than it should have been. Likewise, there are payments 
sent out by Mr R in September that leave the account at a zero balance.
But Mr R doesnt contact Wise to report anything unusual until 15 September. And in this 
conversation, he doesnt allege hes been the victim of fraud, or a robbery. But rather he 
says he mistakenly sent the money to the wrong person. Later that day he then says 
Someone accessed my account and the transactions. The transaction wasnt authorized by 
me. Its not clear why he would initially say the transactions were mistaken if he believed 
hed been the victim of theft, or why he would delay reporting the transactions to Wise 
considering hes alleging hes lost a significant sum of money.
In his correspondence with Wise, its explained the recipient claimed Mr R was returning 
money that was sent to him by mistake. Mr R denies this, saying it was his own money. But 
he acknowledged that he had done work for the recipient in the past. But the type of work he 
describes he carried out for the recipient would generally be thought of as questionable, and 
potentially illegal. Mr R has alleged they were threatening him. Which does make it more 
plausible that the he returned the funds himself, rather than it was accessed by the third 
party and transferred without his knowledge. 
In these conversations he also mentions that the recipients got him to open up an account 
with a cryptocurrency exchange  and hes also claimed this is where the funds in the 
account came from. Mr R has said in his response to our investigator that he moved the 
funds from there to the Wise account as he was worried about the hackers taking them. 
Hes also sent emails showing there were logins from new IP addresses for other web 
services he uses. But if Mr R was on notice he was being targeted by hackers it would make 
it even more unusual that he didnt report the transactions for over two weeks. Overall, I consider it more likely than not the transactions were carried out either by Mr R, or 
by someone hed given access to his Wise account. So, under the PSRs the payments 
would be considered authorised, and Wise wouldnt be liable for refunding him.
As part of our fair and reasonable remit, I considered whether Wise should have stepped in 
to prevent these transactions. Overall though Im not minded that they should have  as 
mentioned I find it more likely than not Mr R was involved in the transactions, and they had 
been completed using verification procedures that only Mr R should have been able to 
complete. I also note that the account activity in leading up to this was similar  for example 
over $38,000 had been received and sent on 27 August, which Mr R hasnt disputed. So, I 
dont see that Wise have been unreasonable in not blocking the transactions.
Ive also considered the account closure  Im satisfied that the closing of Mr Rs account 
was in line with the terms of the Wise account, so Im not asking them to do anything further 
there.
Im sorry to hear how this has affected Mr R, and I am very sympathetic to his ill health. I 
appreciate this cant have been an easy experience for him. But overall, I cant say that Wise 
have been unfair or unreasonable to him, in how theyve handled his dispute. Because of 
that, Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman