DRN-3970205
The complaint
Miss J complains about late payment markers reported to the Credit Reference Agencies by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
Miss J holds a credit card account with Barclaycard. In 2022, she raised a complaint about 
late payment markers which had been recorded on her credit file in relation to the account. 
Miss J said that Barclaycard had reported these incorrectly and that her credit rating and 
mental health had suffered as a result of the negative entries. She asked it to remove them.
Barclaycard agreed to remove a late payment marker for July 2019, on the basis that Miss J 
had made payment within 14 days of the due date. But it said it couldnt amend the other 
entries. It said it must report accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies and that 
those entries had been reported correctly.
Miss J wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and came to this service. She complained 
about late payment markers reported in the period from 2017 to 2019. Some of this reporting 
was covered by a previous complaint which Miss J had raised with Barclaycard in 2018. Our 
Investigator explained that, as Miss J hadnt referred that complaint to us within six months, 
we couldnt look at the late payment markers which it covered. They said we could only 
consider the late payment markers reported from March 2018 onwards, as they didnt fall 
within the previous complaint. Miss J agreed to this complaint proceeding on that basis.
She said she understood that a payment couldnt be reported as missed or late unless 14 
days had passed since the due date. She said, on that basis, many of her payments to 
Barclaycard shouldnt have been reported as late.
Barclaycard said that, due to the timing of its reporting, if a customer pays within 14 days of 
their due date, the payment isnt always reported as late. But it said it isnt obliged to work in 
this way and that, where a 14-day grace period is applied, its done as a goodwill gesture. 
Barclaycard also explained that the grace period would only apply the first time a customer is 
late making payment: if their payment was late the previous month, no grace period is given.
Our Investigator thought that Barclaycard had applied the late payment markers correctly 
here and didnt ask it to do anything. But Miss J remained unhappy about the situation and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, Im only looking at late payment markers from March 2018 
onwards. I find that six late payments were reported by Barclaycard: in March, April, May 
and November 2018 and March and August 2019. Im not including the marker for July 2019, 
as Barclaycard agreed to remove that. The late payment for August 2019 is shown on Miss 
Js credit file as having been missed in September 2019. Barclaycard explained that this is 
because the relevant statement was produced in September.
Barclaycard says that the late payment markers for November 2018 and March 2019 seem 
to have been removed from Miss Js credit file. It says it cant find any record of why they 
have been removed, but says they were reported correctly at the time. Miss J has provided a 
screenshot of the missed payments recorded on her credit file. There are no entries for 
November 2018 or March 2019. So, Im satisfied that, of the six late payments reported from 
March 2018 onwards, only four remain on Miss Js credit file. Those are the payments for 
March, April and May 2018 and September 2019. Ill now consider whether I think 
Barclaycard acted fairly by reporting these payments as late.
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Js account, she must pay at least her minimum 
payment by the due date shown on her statement every month. The terms say that, if Miss J 
misses a payment, her records with credit reference agencies may be affected. Under the 
terms, missing a minimum payment can mean not making a payment, only paying part of the 
minimum payment or making the payment after the due date. Miss J agreed to these terms 
and conditions when opening and by continuing to use her account.
The payments for April 2018, May 2018 and August 2019 were all made after their due 
dates. And the amount Miss J paid was less than the minimum payment in each case. So I 
find that Barclaycard was entitled to treat these payments as missed and report this to the 
Credit Reference Agencies. 
Turning to the payment for March 2018, Miss J paid the minimum payment amount but did 
so a few days after the due date. Im satisfied that, under the terms and conditions of her 
account, this payment was late. But Miss J says that Barclaycard shouldnt have reported it 
as late because it was paid within 14 days of the due date. The payment was made within 14 
days of the due date. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to report it as late. 
Thats because Barclaycard isnt obliged to report payments made within 14 days of the due 
date as having been made on time. 
Im aware that Barclaycard has allowed Miss J a 14-day grace period on some occasions, 
meaning that some payments which were made up to 14 days after their due dates werent 
reported as being late. But I dont find that Barclaycard is obliged to apply a grace period. 
And I dont think the fact that it had done so on some occasions meant that it had to do so on 
all occasions when Miss J made payment after the due date.
Barclaycard says it would only consider allowing a customer 14 days grace the first time 
they pay late. Miss Js March payment was late. But so was the previous months payment. I 
think it was reasonable that no grace period was applied to the March payment.
But Miss J says Barclaycard told her on numerous phone calls that late payments wouldnt 
be reported unless they were over 14 days late. She says it didnt tell her this only applied to 
the first late payment. Miss J says that, if shed been given the correct information, she 
would have had the opportunity to do things differently.
Barclaycard says it doesnt have recordings of any calls from the relevant period, given the 
amount of time which has passed. I think its likely that something was discussed about 
payments not being marked as late if theyre made within 14 days of the due date. But I dont 
find it likely that Miss J was told she could always make payments up to 14 days after the 
due date without them ever being reported as late. I dont find that to be Barclaycards policy 
and its not what the terms and conditions of Miss Js account say. I havent seen any 
evidence that Barclaycard said or did anything which changed the terms of its credit card 
agreement with Miss J. And I find it unlikely that anything said in any calls had that effect. Miss J says she may have done things differently if shed known the payments would be 
reported as late. But it was clear from the terms and conditions what would be treated as a 
late payment and what the effect of this might be. Miss J was aware when payments were 
due. If she was able to pay on time, she should have done so. But, if she couldnt pay on the 
due date, she wouldnt have been able to do so even if shed known the details of how any 
discretionary grace period might be applied by Barclaycard (which it wasnt obliged to tell 
her). So I think its likely the outcome would have been the same in any event.
In conclusion, I dont think Barclaycard reported the missed payments incorrectly or acted 
unfairly here. I realise Miss J will find my decision disappointing and Im sorry for that. But 
Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman