DRN-4215782
The complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr R says at the time he had lots of late payment and missed payment 
markers on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr R was advanced one loan of £300 on 1 April 2022. He was due to make six monthly 
payments of varying amounts, with the largest repayment being £117.20 and the smallest 
being £62. Mr R has had some problems repaying this loan and Mr Lender said at least by 
April 2023 the account has been passed to at third party debt collection agency. 
Mr Lender issued its final response letter (FRL) on 24 April 2023. In that FRL it explained 
that it thought it was reasonable to have relied on the information given to it by Mr R and 
Mr Lender also explained that it had carried out proportionate affordability checks. It did not 
uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and issued her view explaining why she 
wasnt going to uphold Mr Rs complaint. She thought the checks Mr Lender carried out 
showed he would likely be able to afford his repayments. 
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, asking for his complaint to be 
progressed and he also said that he didnt have £500 spare month each month  as the 
adjudicator suggested. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances.
Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. But I dont consider that this
applied to Mr Rs circumstances given only one loan was advanced. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr Lender did before it lent this loan  along with the 
comments Mr R has provided, I am satisfied that a proportionate check was carried out by 
Mr Lender which showed it, that Mr R would likely be able to afford his repayments, and Ive 
explained my reasoning below. 
For this loan, Mr Lender asked Mr R to declare his income and expenditure and it also 
carried out a credit search. Mr R declared that his net income was £1,500 a month and I 
think it was reasonable and proportionate for Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr R 
declared.  
Mr R was also asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories 
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. 
My understanding of Mr Lenders lending practices means it is likely that it used information 
it received from the credit report and data from the Office of National Statistics to adjust the 
expenditure figures (if needed). Mr Lender hasnt said whether it carried out these further 
checks as part of its affordability assessment for Mr Rs application.  
But whether it did or didnt compare what Mr R declared against the ONS data, or his credit 
file, doesnt change my mind about the complaint because it was proportionate to either 
accept what Mr R was saying or to have carried out those extra checks. 
What I can say, is that for the affordability assessment Mr Lender used a monthly outgoing 
figure of £1,019. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender 
gathered Mr R had potentially enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for 
the loan. 
This left disposable income of almost £500 per month  an amount of money Mr R says he 
didnt have. I accept that Mr R is suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected in the information Mr Lender obtained at the time the loan was granted. But 
Mr Lender could only make reasonable decisions based on the information it had available 
at the time.Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
This can mean that the results a lender may see could be different to the information that a 
consumer may be able to view in the credit report they can download from a credit reference 
agency. 
If information was given to Mr Lender which indicated that Mr R was either in financial 
difficulties or couldnt afford the loan, then I would expect it to react to that and possibly take 
a different course of action. However, if the credit check results didnt show that Mr R had 
significant on-going repayment problems  as he has explained, I wouldnt at this early point 
in the lending relationship have expected Mr Lender to know about these. 
Having looked at the credit check results Mr Lender has provided, there wasnt anything in 
my view, that wouldve led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr R wasnt 
insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or had a County 
Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loan. 
It was also told that Mr R didnt have any outstanding AAI  which means advanced 
against income which is another name for a payday loan. So, the information Mr Lender 
received suggested that Mr R wasnt reliant on other payday loans.  
Mr R has also said that at this time he had problems managing his wider finances, but he 
didnt appear to tell Mr Lender of these at the time and this isnt something I would have 
expected Mr Lender to have assumed. 
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information that Mr R provided 
about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check results that Mr Lender 
received. The checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and showed that Mr R 
should be able to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest the loan 
would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman