DRN-4524443
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because following a claim 
for theft of the catalytic converter from his car, hes been left with no car, an affected no 
claims bonus and the full years premium to pay.
What happened
Mr S called AXA because part of his car had been stolen. AXA accepted the claim and sent 
Mr S a letter which said:
When we settle the claim, the vehicle becomes our propertyWe will be unable to allow 
you to retain your vehicle if it is uneconomical to repair.
AXA placed Mr S in a hire car and, within a couple of weeks, settled the claim as a total loss. 
Given the age of the car, and the cost of repair, AXA felt it was uneconomical to repair it by 
replacing the part (although it could have been repaired and returned to the road). AXA kept 
Mr Ss car, selling it as salvage and settling with Mr S based on its market value. Mr S was 
asked to keep paying the instalments he was paying to cover the premium and was told his 
no claims bonus would be affected. He was unhappy about these things.
Subsequently Mr S cancelled his policy. AXA said that if he hadnt done so, it would have, 
for non-payment of the instalments for the premium. Mr S complained to AXA. AXA said he 
didnt understand why he had to pay these when he no longer had his car. But also that it 
was unfair that his no claims bonus was affected by the claim because he had not been at 
fault for the loss. When AXA explained that fault really meant it had no-one to recover the 
loss from, Mr S said AXA should have advised him about that when he made the claim. He 
said  if it had done so, hed have just notified it of the loss and had the car repaired himself. 
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint and issued a view. He didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S wasnt 
happy with the Investigators view. The Investigator asked Mr S some questions. Mr S, 
replying to those questions, said he hadnt replaced his car. He said hed told AXAs agent 
dealing with the claim that he wanted to have it repaired, but they told him it wasnt worth 
repairing. Our Investigator had also asked AXA if it had offered Mr S the chance to keep his 
car. AXA said it had not offered to let him keep the car because he had not asked to do so, 
which he could have done, because he had initially been unhappy with the settlement.
The complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt AXA had failed 
Mr S. I felt that to put things right, AXA should be writing off the outstanding premium, 
providing Mr S with a letter he could send to debt record agencies, and paying him £500 
compensation. My provisional findings were:
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this causes Mr S, I dont think AXA did 
anything wrong in how it set up the claim. It wasnt for AXA to advise Mr S on whether or not 
to make a claim. Further, whilst the policy year had only just started, with Mr S having made 
a claim, which was settled as total loss, his full policy premium did become due. The policy 
says this will happen but also, effectively, a total loss settlement means the purpose of the 
policy  to offer cover for the car  has been fulfilled. Thats also quite usual and Mr S was 
told he could add a replacement car to the policy to continue to receive the benefit from the 
premium. So, in my view, AXA didnt fail Mr S in these respects.
Nevertheless, I do think AXA failed Mr S regarding keeping his car. I dont think its a 
generally fair position for AXA to take to say Mr S didnt ask about keeping his car but could 
have done so. Which would have prompted it to make an offer in that respect. Not when it 
had expressly told him in writing that this cannot be done (my emphasis)  When we settle 
the claim, the vehicle becomes our propertyWe will be unable to allow you to retain 
your vehicle if it is uneconomical to repair.
I can see that this was an old car but Im aware that Mr Ss finances were stretched. And 
hes explained he hasnt replaced his car since. But I accept that the ideal outcome for him 
here would have been to have his old car repaired. AXA didnt have to repair it, because it 
was uneconomical for it to do so. But in completing a repair AXA would have to use new 
parts. Whereas, Mr S would likely have been able to repair the car by utilising reconditioned 
parts. Which would likely have cost less than the price to AXA for repair. And hed have had 
the market value settlement less an amount for the salvage of the car, with which to do so. 
I cant see any reason why he wouldnt have done that. 
AXA hasnt been able to provide call recordings where its agent and Mr S discussed the total 
loss settlement. But Ive looked at whats been said about those discussions in respect of 
Mr S keeping the vehicle. Bearing in mind the letter AXA sent to Mr S, which said it had to 
keep the car, I think Mr S likely gave some indication to AXAs agent that hed be interested 
in the car being repaired so he could continue to use it which was merely turned down on the 
basis of the cost to AXA to repair the car. I think, in this instance, that indication by Mr S 
should have been taken as a request by him to keep the car. Which should then have 
prompted AXA to offer to settle the claim by paying him the market value less an amount for 
salvage and returning the car to him. But AXA didnt do that and I think that was unfair.  
So I have to think about what can be done now to put things right. Mr S has had the market 
value settlement for his car, and AXA has sold the car on. I cant undo any of that. The policy 
has been cancelled and Mr S doesnt currently have another car which he needs cover for. 
So theres no use in me requiring the policy to be reinstated. 
Then theres the premium. Mr S owes AXA around £1,000 in premiums. As I set out above, 
in the normal course of a total loss settlement, the policy does allow AXA to request that the 
full premium is paid. However, here, I have to think about the fact that AXA made an error 
and what would have happened if it hadnt. In that respect Ive found that Mr S would have 
fixed his car. Hed have had to keep the car insured. So I think, in that instance he would 
have continued to make his premium payments. And hed have benefitted from that outlay 
because hed be insuring his car. But AXAs error meant that didnt happen. And Mr S now 
has to pay for the premium even whilst being without his car or any further benefit from the 
policy. In this instance I do think it would be unfair for AXA to continue to seek recovery from 
him for the outstanding premium amounts. As Ive said, on a strict interpretation of the policy 
AXA can do that  but, for the above reason, I dont think it would be fair for it to do so in this 
case. I intend to require it to mark its files to show the sum is written off and cease chasing 
Mr S for the monies. Also to write a letter for Mr S, to provide to any debt record agencies, 
should he need to, to explain any debt shown was due to AXAs error.
In terms of compensation, I think £500 is a fair and reasonable sum. Mr Ss frustration and 
worry about the premium outstanding would all have been avoided if AXA had offered to let 
him keep the car because hed still feel like he was benefitting from the sum he was paying 
(which I think he would have continued to pay for that same reason). Instead I understand 
hes been faced with debt collectors chasing him for money he doesnt feel he reasonably 
owes. As Ive said, Mr S, strictly speaking, is incorrect in that respect  the policy does make him liable for that sum. But, as Ive also said, I think its unfair for AXA to chase him for 
payment of it in this instance. I am satisfied that AXA caused him this worry by not offering to 
settle his total loss claim by paying a reduced market value and returning his car to him so 
he could repair it. 
Mr S said AXA had lied  he had told it he wanted to keep the car. He said he felt it had dealt 
with his claim incorrectly and he shouldnt have to pay anything.
AXA said it disagreed with the outcome. AXA said the premium is outstanding as per the 
policy terms. It said its not fair for Mr S to not have to pay for this whilst having the full 
benefit of the policy. AXA said Mr S could have replaced his vehicle, had he wanted to, 
adding any new car to the policy and benefitting from the remaining cover/premium price. It 
said its not clear if Mr S could have sourced a replacement part  because thefts of these 
items are increasing. AXA said it felt £500 was too high for the impact the complaint made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S hasnt been clear about when it was that he asked AXA to keep his car. It may have 
been its agent he asked. In any event, I found he had likely at least indicated to AXAs agent 
that he wanted to keep the car and that AXA hadnt treated him fairly in that respect. 
I appreciate that, in this situation, the policy would allow the premium to be retained, or 
require outstanding parts of it to be paid. But as I explained provisionally  AXA failed Mr S 
regarding keeping his car. So what AXA can fairly do regarding the premium has to be 
considered through that lens. In short Mr S is only in the position of not having his car whilst 
being liable to pay a policy premium for it because AXA failed him, by not giving him the 
option to have his car back. Mr S could, in theory, have improved that situation, caused by 
AXA, by buying another car to add to the policy, thereby benefitting from the premium. But 
the fact he did not doesnt negate AXAs liability for the consequences of its failure. 
AXA hasnt shown that Mr S could not have replaced the part. The fact that these items are 
being stolen from cars doesnt mean it would be impossible to find a replacement part.
I note AXA feels £500 compensation is too high. But Im satisfied that Mr S was caused a 
substantial amount of worry due the financial position Ive found AXA left him in  being 
chased to pay for cover for a car no longer owned.
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Write off the outstanding premium amount, ceasing to chase Mr S for payment.
Write a letter for Mr S to present to any debt record agencies should he need/wish to, to 
explain that any debt recorded there is its fault.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman