DRN-1672005
 
The complaint
Miss V says Freemans Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI taken out in January 2007 to cover a catalogue shopping 
account. The sale took place on the phone more than a year after Miss V opened her 
shopping account. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It also 
included some life and hospitalisation cover and some protection for items purchased on the 
account.
The adjudicator did not recommend this complaint should be upheld. Miss V disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Freemans had to make it clear the policy was optional and Miss V had to agree to take it out. 
Miss V says she wasnt given a choice, it was added without her knowledge, and she was 
made to opt out rather than opt in. Freemans doesnt have the call recording but thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. This means I need to decide what I think is 
more likely to have happened.
The PPI policy was taken out during a phone call. I cant know for certain what was said to 
Miss V at the time. But I have seen copies of call scripts from around that time which 
Freemans says its staff would have used when selling PPI. Based on what we know about 
the way Freemans sold PPI, I think its most likely that the Freemans representative 
followed that script. The script makes it clear that the representative had to obtain Miss Vs 
permission to add the PPI to her account. I have thought about Miss V's comments carefully 
but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect 
what she recalls.
Ive also considered that Miss V had already had the catalogue account set up for over a 
year before she took out the PPI. So I think she would have known that she didnt need to 
take it out in order to get the credit.So based on what Ive seen, and what I know about the way Freemans sold the PPI, I think 
its more likely that Freemans made it clear the policy was optional and Miss V chose to take 
it out. I can understand she might not recall this given how long ago the sale was.
Freemans recommended the PPI to Miss V so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it seems she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations, and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. She told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay and 
had no savings. She said she was living with her parents who would have helped. But that's 
not suitable alternative protection, it's not guaranteed and people's circumstances can 
change.   
Its possible the information Freemans gave Miss V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive mentioned above, I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I dont know when the cost was made clear but it looks like it was 
affordable for her and it offered a competitively priced level of cover. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out. 
Which means Freemans doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss V. But 
Freemans has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss V because: 
- Freemans got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss V about that. Because Freemans didnt tell Miss 
V, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Freemans has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium from 6 April 2007  this is the date when Miss 
Vs lending became regulated. And we can only look into whether Freemans treated 
Miss V unfairly about commission from this date onwards. I think that offer is fair in this 
case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Freemans Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss V.
But Freemans Plc does have to pay back to Miss V any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from 6 April 2007 onwards. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman