DRN-4060076
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him incorrect information about a 
switch incentive payment.
What happened
Mr B switched his account to Nationwide which qualified him for a £200 switch incentive 
offer. He says he received a text from them on 23 November 2022 which told him the 
payment would land in his current account within 24 hours. Mr B says he checked his 
account after the 24 hour period, but the switch incentive was not paid into his account. Mr B 
says he rang Nationwide about this, but they gave him excuses and said it mustve been a 
mistake. Mr B made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said the payment was credited later that 
day and they apologised for any confusion caused at the time. They said the 24 hour period 
relates to close of business timescales. Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said the Nationwide call handler told Mr 
B the correct information that the payment would be credited into his account within 10 
calendar days of the full switch completing. He said although the text said he would receive 
the payment within 24 hours, the terms did show it could take up to 10 calendar days. He 
confirmed the payment was credited to Mr Bs account later that day. Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had a look at the terms and conditions of the switch incentive as this is what Mr B would 
have agreed to prior to switching his account to Nationwide. This states under point 14 that 
We will credit the payment to the current account that you switched into within 10 calendar 
days of the full switch completing. So the expectation would be set for Mr B that he would 
be paid the £200 within 10 calendar days of the full switch completing. Based on the 
evidence Nationwide provided to our service, it appears the full switch completed on 21 
November 2022. So based on the terms of the switch, Nationwide shouldve paid the £200 
into his account by 2 December 2022. 
Mr Bs text which he says he received on 23 November 2022 informed him the payment 
would land in his account in 24 hours. But this didnt happen and the call handler confirmed 
to him that it could take 10 calendar days. 
The payment is shown to have credited Mr Bs account on 24 November 2022, which is the 
day after Mr B says he received the text message telling him the payment would land in his 
account within 24 hours. So while the payment may not have been paid within 24 hours of 
the text, and Mr B couldnt spend the incentive in this timeframe, he didnt need to wait long 
to access the switch incentive. While the text could have been clearer to explain the funds 
would be paid up until the end of the following day, it doesnt always follow that 
compensation should be awarded when the impact should be minimal (as it was paid within 
hours and many days before Nationwide had to pay the incentive based on the terms of the 
switch incentive). As Nationwide apologised for the confusion, then Im persuaded this is 
proportionate for what happened here. So it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman