DRN-3777195
The complaint
Mr W complains that St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt carry out his 
request to invest £50,000 of his cash deposits held within his self invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He says SJP failed to act upon his request or even to contact him and make him 
aware that it wasnt able to do complete the investment. He would like compensation for the 
financial loss he says he suffered.
What happened
In 2009 Mr W took out a SIPP. This included investments held with SJP, although the SIPP 
was administered by another firm. The following year Mr W agreed to transfer his other 
personal pension funds into a separate SJP trustee investment account (TIA) within the 
SIPP across six different funds, and to allow SJP to apply its approach to investment 
management to those funds. The idea was that this would help to balance out the risk 
profile of the SIPP as it was primarily invested in hedge funds at that point. The same year 
Mr W informed SJP that he had moved to the United States (US). 
In 2017 Mr W was made aware that his new SJP adviser had been authorised to make 
online fund switches for him.  Mr W says the adviser made a number of investments for him 
during that same year.
In August 2018 SJP wrote to Mr W to advise him that in line with its processes, as it had 
been confirmed that he was a resident of the US, it could no longer offer him financial 
advice. Specifically it said he couldnt make new investments or add to his existing 
investment with SJP. The letter also offered to provide Mr W with details of another adviser 
who might be able to help him while he resided in the US. 
In February 2020 Mr W wanted to switch the funds in the SIPP bank account  which wasnt 
earning any interest, to an interest bearing account to cover the annual fees he was being 
charged. However this transaction couldnt be completed. 
Then on 17 December 2020 Mr W said he wanted to put £50,000 into the Global Small 
Cap (fund). SJP thought he wanted to switch the money from one fund to another but the 
next day Mr W confirmed his intention to use £50,000 from the SIPP bank account deposits 
to invest. On 21 February 2021 Mr W chased up his request, but SJP said it wasnt able to 
invest the funds due to Mr W being a US citizen. It accepted it hadnt emailed him to confirm 
its position.  
So Mr W complained about his instruction not being carried out. SJP didnt uphold his 
complaint as it said Mr W had been aware that it couldnt provide him with advice on his 
investments as he was a resident of the US. It explained that its adviser had consulted with 
SJPs technical team to see if there was a way to process the request, and apologised that 
the outcome of that consultation hadnt been communicated to him. It said it simply wasnt 
possible to make any alterations or investments to his SJP plan within the SIPP. 
SJP offered to provide details of another advice firm which could offer advice to US citizens 
but it also accepted the matter had caused Mr W some trouble and upset and offered him 
£500 in total to include compensation for the delay in responding to his complaint.
Mr W didnt accept the outcome of the complaint or SJPs offer, so he brought it to us where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought that SJPs offer to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint was fair and reasonable making the following points in support:
Hed not been provided with any evidence to suggest that SJP was regulated in the 
US  so didnt think it had acted unfairly when it told Mr W that he wasnt able to 
make further investment into his SIPP and could only make fund switches on an 
execution only basis. He thought SJP had explained this clearly in a letter to Mr W in 
2018. 
He thought that SJP tried to help Mr W when he wanted to switch funds into an 
interest bearing account. Ultimately it wasnt possible to carry out that switch, but he 
didnt think SJP had done anything wrong.
Although SJP told Mr W that some transactions could be carried out on an execution 
only basis, it didnt say all of them could be. So he didnt think SJP had provided 
inconsistent information with regards to making new investments into the SIPP.
SJPs adviser should have clarified from the outset that he wasnt able to help with 
the £50,000 investment. And he shouldnt have taken two months  following a chase 
from Mr W  to provide the correct response. But he thought SJPs offer of 
compensation for that error and delay was fair and reasonable. 
He had considered Mr Ws request for redress in respect of a potential investment 
loss. But he noted that, when SJP suggested that Mr W should find another adviser 
to help with the investment, Mr W took several months to do so. He thought therefore 
that Mr W could have mitigated his position sooner - so he didnt think it was 
appropriate to consider any potential investment loss. 
Mr W didnt agree and made the following points in response:
He was unhappy with the time it had taken us to investigate his complaint.
We had allowed SJP to escape much of its responsibility.
We had failed to recognise the financial and emotional damage SJPS actions had 
caused. 
SJP had failed to make him aware and to assist him after the pension regulations 
changed. 
We hadnt fully investigated what transactions were allowed based on the 
regulations.   
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and so Mr W asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. In making his 
request Mr W stated that the information he was given by SJP had been inconsistent and 
incorrect. He said he hadnt seen any evidence which confirmed that SJP was unable to 
carry out the transaction due to US regulation. He also said it was clear SJPs adviser had 
misled him in believing the transaction would occur and hadnt advised him when it didnt. He 
didnt think that was fair. 
In December 2021 Mr W instructed a new adviser to transfer his plan and by February 2022 
SJP advised that its TIA within the SIPP had been encashed. Although Mr W suggested that 
the transfer was delayed and that he may subsequently raise a further complaint about any 
loss suffered as a result of the delay. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr W and I have some sympathy for the position he now finds 
himself in, but I think SJPs offer for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr W is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Was Mr W made aware of SJPs position on advising US citizens?
Its clear that when SJP advised Mr W to invest in a TIA within his SIPP and adopt its 
investment strategy in 2010, it wasnt aware of the changes that would be made in the 
future. 
But my understanding is that the US made changes to its Investment Adviser Act in 2013, 
which affected the scope of advice advisers could give US citizens. Within the act Ive seen 
a section for Non-U.S. Advisers which states that, there is no exemption for non-U.S. 
advisers. Non-U.S. persons advising U.S. persons are subject to the Act and must register 
under the Act.
SJP wasnt authorised to conduct investment advice in the US so its position was that it 
couldnt advice any of its clients that were resident there.  I know Mr W has said that he 
thinks SJPs interpretation of the legislation was inaccurate and that it shouldnt have acted 
to leave his portfolio frozen. But I think SJPs interpretation of the legislation was a 
commercial decision for it to make and it wouldnt be fair to say it couldnt take the action that 
it did. SJP has said that it isnt authorised in the US, so I think its up to SJP to decide how it 
works with its clients thereafter. What I would have expected however was for SJP to explain 
its decision to Mr W and make him aware how it would deal with him going forward  which I 
think it did. 
The letter SJP sent Mr W in August 2018 said that, Under current US legislation St. Jamess 
Place cannot offer you financial advice or send you marketing and promotional information 
whilst you are resident in the United States. The legislation also means that you are unable 
to make new investments or add to existing plans with St. Jamess Place. As we are 
unable to provide financial advice, there will be no further contact from your St. Jamess
Place Partner in this regard and we will suspend the ongoing advice charge payable to St. 
Jamess Place whilst you maintain an address in the US. However, we may be able to 
facilitate an introduction to an adviser who is licensed to advise you in the United States. 
Please let your Partner know if you are interested in this service. We will continue to send 
you regulatory mailings, including the Annual Wealth Account Statement and you can still 
switch between funds in your portfolio. If you decide to make a fund switch, this will be 
executed as a non-advised transaction and the St. Jamess Place advice guarantee will not 
apply.
So, I think the letter was clear in setting out how SJP would treat Mr W going forward. It 
wasnt able to give him any advice and couldnt accept new investments or additional 
contributions to his existing SJP plans. It would have been possible for Mr W to switch his 
existing SJP funds, but only on an execution only basis  so without any advice from SJP. 
In addition, SJP informed Mr W it had stopped its ongoing adviser charge and set out details 
of an alternative adviser that could help him.  
Whether or not Mr W was happy with this course of action, SJP was entitled to take it in the 
course of its everyday business decisions. But Im satisfied it communicated this information to Mr W clearly and simply and so I think it did make Mr W aware of its position in 2018  
which was before Mr W tried to make further amendments and investments.  
The 2020 switch to an interest bearing account 
Mr W says he was unhappy that, when he approached his adviser in February 2020 to move 
the cash deposits in the SIPP to an interest bearing account to help cover fees, SJP said it 
would help him  but ultimately was unable to.  He said this was simple transaction which 
SJP said could be done on an execution only basis and hes unclear why, when it set up the 
plan for him in the first place, SJP was unable to help with his deposits/investments.
Theres little evidence available to show the trail of what was discussed in late 2019 and 
early 2020 about this transaction. An email from the SJP adviser to Mr W from 
February 2020 said, here is the information from the chap I spoke to re your situation (email 
chain below). In essence, we will check with the providers on Friday, if they will accept dual 
trustees or not. (this is the technical set up of your existing IPS SIPP). If they will allow this 
then great no need to alter your existing SIPP. However, if they wont (which I dont think 
they will as I am sure I have asked this verbally already) allow this, then moving your existing 
SIPP via Execution only to the xxx Modular ISIPP will allow this functionality anyway.  
This would suggest that the adviser had approached the SIPP provider to see if it could help 
Mr W directly  which would be consistent with SJPs view that it was simply unable to help 
Mr W with any requests to purchase new funds, accounts or investments within the SIPP. I 
havent been presented with any evidence to show that the adviser told Mr W he would be 
able to carry out the instructions and theres nothing to suggest an application was made to 
this effect  such as signed paperwork or documentations. 
I accept that SJPs letter from 2018 stated that, you can still switch between funds in your 
portfolio. If you decide to make a fund switch, this will be executed as a non-advised 
transaction and the St. Jamess Place advice guarantee will not apply. So, I can understand 
why Mr W might have assumed that the switching of accounts would be considered an 
execution only transaction. But I think this was different matter involving the use of dual 
trustees  which the adviser suggested wouldnt be acceptable to the SIPP provider within 
his email. So I think, on balance, its likely that the adviser simply offered to ask the provider 
whether it could facilitate Mr Ws request and made him aware of the ongoing conversation 
about whether it was possible. Theres no paperwork trail to demonstrate that an application 
was made on Mr Ws behalf, so I think its likely the SIPP provider was unable to carry out 
the request and it went no further. 
So I dont think SJP misled or failed Mr W at that time, but Ive gone to consider the 
situation surrounding the request Mr W made to invest later that year. 
Mr Ws request from December 2020 to invest into a fund using his cash deposits.
Ive looked at the email trail between Mr W and his adviser from 16 December 2020, during 
which Mr W said he wanted to invest £50,000 from his SIPP cash deposits into a new fund 
within his TIA. Initially the adviser thought this was switch of funds, but Im satisfied Mr W 
made it clear that, I want to use GBP 50,000 of the bank cash deposit to make the 
purchase.  So I think its clear this was a purchase of a new fund using cash (deposits) and 
not simply a switch of funds from within SJPs TIA. 
And I think SJP had already made it clear in 2018 that it couldnt facilitate such a transaction 
or indeed give any advice on the matter. This wasnt a fund switch in the conventional sense 
so SJP would always have been unable to help Mr W with his request. I dont think SJP 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here, ultimately it did what it said it would do back in 2018.But the problem here was that Mr Ws adviser did become involved in the transaction and 
instead of confirming SJPs position when Mr W approached him, he suggested he would 
make further enquiries to see if he could carry out the request. Unfortunately, when he 
became aware that SJP was unable to facilitate the request he didnt convey that information 
to Mr W. That meant Mr W assumed the transaction had been carried out and only 
approached the adviser a couple of months later when he realised he hadnt received any 
paperwork relating to the investment.  
In the email from 24 February 2021 SJP confirmed to Mr W that it hadnt carried out his 
investment  but accepted it hadnt emailed him to confirm that position. It confirmed his 
status as a US citizen didnt allow it to invest further funds on his behalf. It provided details of 
an alternative adviser who might be able to take over the SIPP assets and advise on them.  
So Im satisfied that SJP did eventually confirm its position  and that its position was 
consistent with what it had told Mr W from 2018. And Ive also taken into account that it 
didnt confirm it was going ahead with the transaction in December 2020, it just failed to 
continue its communication with Mr W. But equally I cant ignore the fact that Mr W wasnt 
told the transaction couldnt be completed until around two months later. So I think that 
would have had an impact on him. I think he would have been concerned during the two 
month period that he hadnt had any confirmation of the transaction and I can understand 
why he might also think this has led to him suffering a financial loss if the transaction wasnt 
made during this time. 
Ive carefully considered SJPs offer of £500  which included an element of compensation 
for the delay in responding to his complaint. We wouldnt normally comment on the handling 
of a complaint as it isnt a regulated activity, but when taken overall for the delay and the 
distress and inconvenience caused by not making Mr W aware in a timely manner that it 
couldnt carry out his transaction request, I think the sum of £500 is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and within the range of what Id expect to see for such errors. 
The possible loss of investment growth and mitigation. 
Mr C has said that he suffered a loss of investment growth here as he thought SJP had 
invested his funds in December 2020 and that he should have received any growth on the 
fund from that date. And as Ive suggested above, I do have some sympathy for Mr Ws 
situation at that time as he assumed the transaction had completed  albeit there was no 
evidence to suggest SJP were going ahead with the investment. 
Ive said that SJP should compensate Mr W for the impact of its delay in telling him it 
couldnt complete his transaction  but I have gone on to consider his claim for 
compensation of lost investment growth as well. Ive looked at Mr Ws actions when he 
became aware that the investment hadnt been made to see how he mitigated the situation. 
In that situation I would have expected Mr W to have tried to make the investment as soon 
as possible using an alternative option/adviser. Ive also taken into account that SJP offered 
details of an alternative adviser in its email of February 2021  as well as in its letter from 
August 2018. 
But Mr W didnt pursue the matter, either to try to make that particular investment or to 
amend/transfer his plan, until some months later. 
So he didnt mitigate his position as I would have expected and its therefore difficult to reach 
the conclusion he would have invested earlier based on those actions, and so I cant 
reasonably say any financial loss he may have suffered was caused by SJPs actions. But in 
any case, even if I am wrong in my assumption, SJP simply couldnt have made the 
investment for Mr W  so I cant conclude it caused him to suffer a loss over a transaction it 
was always unable to complete. Putting things right
I think SJPs offer of £500 to resolve the complaint and for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But I dont think SJP should 
have to do anything else.
My final decision
St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should pay £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman