DRN-3921402
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt offered her a refund after she fell 
victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
What happened
Mrs R came across an advertisement for a cryptocurrency trading firm on social media - 
Company B. 
Its not quite clear how a telephone conversation between Mrs R and Company B was 
initiated. However, a conversation did take place. Mrs R was persuaded to sign up to an 
account with Company B via WhatsApp. She was told that if she invested £250, Company B 
would give her a 100% bonus which would be used for her initial trade. Unbeknown to Mrs 
R, Company B were operating a scam.
Mrs R was asked to provide her ID, and accounts with two third-party cryptocurrency 
exchange providers, were set up in her name. Mrs R was provided with the login details for 
these accounts. For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to these companies as 
Company C and Company E. 
Mrs R was then asked to download software that would allow the fraudsters access to her 
computer and/or mobile telephone in order to make trades on her behalf. Mrs R has said 
she didnt initiate any of the payments that left her account herself and her computer was 
being controlled by the fraudsters. Mrs R said she tried to take control of the cursor on more 
than one occasion, but everything was being done so quickly andshe was unable to stop it. 
Mrs R said she could see that she was losing all of the money that she was paying into the 
investments but even when she didnt want to continue, she felt bullied and pressured into 
depositing more money.
Ive detailed the payments that left Mrs Rs account in the table below. Ive also included any 
other points of interest that I think are relevant to the overall outcome of this complaint:
Date Payment Type Recipient Amount
26 June Debit card Unclear £250.28 + fee
29 June Debit card Company E £515.00
20 July Debit card Company E £1,030.00
22 July Debit card Company E £2,070.00
7 August Debit card Company E £2,070.00
11 August Debit card Company E £3,105.00
14 August Mobile banking bank 
transferCompany C £4,000.00
Call with BoS takes 
place. Mrs R says 
shes making the 
payments herself to 
her own crypto-
currency account.
21 August Mobile banking bank 
transferCompany C £3,000
£2,884.32 is 
transferred back into 
the account by Mrs 
R on the same day.
24 August Debit card Company E £3,105.00
3 September Mobile bank transfer Company C £1,500
£1,500 transferred 
back into the 
account by Mrs R on 
the same day.
4 September Debit card Company E £1,552.50
15 September Debit card Company E £1,035.00
Mrs R has told us that the bank transfers on 21 August and 3 September were completed 
without her permission and when she noticed what had happened, she logged into her 
Company B account and transferred the money back out  minus a fee for the transfer on 21 
August. 
Upon realising shed likely been the victim of a scam, Mrs R contacted BoS. BoS issued its 
final response letter on 19 January 2021 and it declined to offer Mrs R a refund of the 
amounts lost. It recognised that Mrs R had likely been the victim of a scam but it said it was 
unable to dispute the debit card payments as the service requested at the time had been 
provided  the payments had been used to purchase cryptocurrency as requested. It also 
said it wouldnt be possible to offer Mrs R a refund of the bank transfers made to Company B 
as it appeared that Mrs R had also received payments into her account. The assumption 
being that these payments were returns on legitimate investments.
Unhappy with BoS response, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service. The investigator 
who considered it asked BoS to refund Mrs R 50% of the loss suffered from the 14 August 
onwards minus any credits that were paid back into Mrs Rs account. The investigator felt 
that the recommended redress recognised that BoS couldve and shouldve done more to 
prevent Mrs Rs loss from 14 August onwards but at the same time, it recognised that Mrs R 
couldve done more to prevent her losses also. 
After some back and forth, BoS agreed to our investigators findings. Mrs R did not. She said 
she felt a reasonable outcome would be for the loss to be split 80/20. Mrs R said BoS, the 
industry expert, should bear the majority of the blame for the success of the scam. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same outcome as our investigator - for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
AuthorisationThroughout the course of this complaint, Mrs R has told us that she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise the scam payments herself. Shes said the fraudsters gained access 
to her computer via third-party software and she was either unable to stop them making 
the payments themselves or she was unaware of the payments at all until she received her 
monthly statements. However, Im not persuaded that this is what happened here. 
BoS technical evidence shows me that all of the transfers to company C were made using 
Mrs Rs mobile banking app, not her computer. And its not clear how the fraudsters 
couldve gained access to Mrs Rs mobile banking  they wouldnt have had her security 
information. The fraudsters would also have needed Mrs Rs debit card details to make the 
debit card payments on her behalf too. 
As part of my investigations, I asked Mrs R to clarify exactly what had happened during the 
course of the scam and how the fraudsters wouldve been able to gain access to her debit 
card information and her mobile banking app. For reasons unknown to me, whilst Mrs R 
responded to my email, she didnt respond to the specific questions I asked. And so I 
havent been able to establish a point of compromise for Mrs Rs debit card information or 
her mobile banking security information. The payments could only have been made by the 
fraudsters if Mrs R had shared this information or it was gained in some other way  but 
Mrs R hasnt said this. So, Im satisfied that the most likely explanation as to what 
happened here is that Mrs R was authorising the transactions herself at the request of the 
fraudsters. 
This is supported by the fact that Mrs Rs account maintains a healthy balance throughout 
the scam. And Im satisfied that had a fraudster been able to gain unfettered access to Mrs 
Rs account, either via her debit card or mobile banking app, they likely wouldve drained 
the account of funds. The messages shared between Mrs R and the fraudsters also 
indicate that Mrs R is waiting for instructions from the fraudsters in terms of what 
cryptocurrency to buy  otherwise known as signals. This suggests it is Mrs R who is 
making the payments at the fraudsters instruction. Mrs R has also told us that she was 
aware of at least some of the transactions as she was able to login to her Company C 
account and return some funds to her bank account. She also tells BoS, in a telephone call 
on 14 August, that she is the one authorising the payments to her Company C account. 
And so, based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the transactions in question 
were made or otherwise authorised by Mrs R. 
So, whilst I have no doubt that Mrs R didnt intend for the money to go to fraudsters, under 
the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs R is 
presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. This is because where a valid payment 
instruction has been received, via a debit card or bank transfer request, BoSs obligation is 
to follow the instruction provided. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for BoS to take additional 
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be 
when a payment is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with the usual 
use of the account. In such circumstances, Id expect BoS to intervene and ask some 
questions about the intended transaction before processing it. 
So, Ive first thought about whether the initial card payments and then the later transfers 
could be considered out of character and unusual when compared with Mrs Rs usual 
account activity. Ive reviewed Mrs Rs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and 
whilst I agree that the payment on the 11 August is slightly higher than the usual payments 
from this account, Im not satisfied that it, or any of the payments before it, were remarkable 
enough to have stood out to BoS and prompted further discussion before they were allowed 
to leave Mrs Rs account. 
The initial payments are all for relatively modest amounts. They are made via debit card 
and are being made to a legitimate merchant. And prior to the 11 August, they are all in-line 
with Mrs Rs usual spending on the account. Mrs R has made numerous payments that are 
similar to or higher than the first five payments in the months leading up to the scam. And 
so, I dont think these payments shouldve been considered unusual at the time. 
The sixth payment, £3,1050 on 11 August, is higher than Mrs Rs usual transactions. But it is 
still for a relatively small amount and I dont consider it inherently suspicious when taking into 
account that customers often process transactions up to this amount on a daily basis. And 
so, it would be unreasonable for me to now say that transactions in the low thousands were 
so unusual here that they shouldve prompted further action from BoS. Overall, Im not 
satisfied that the initial scam payments should have stood out when compared to Mrs Rs 
genuine account activity or that they shouldve prompted further checks by BoS before they 
were allowed to leave Mrs Rs account. 
£4,000 bank transfer to company C on 14 August 2020
BoS do identify the 7th transaction, requested on the 14 August 2020, as suspicious and they 
contact Mrs R to discuss the payment before it is allowed to leave her account. BoS has 
acknowledged that it shouldve asked more probing questions in this telephone call than it 
ultimately did, and it has said that had it done so, the scam most likely wouldve been 
prevented from this point onwards. And so the starting point here is that Mrs R should be 
refunded the transactions from this point. However, that is not the end of the story. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs R should bear some responsibility for her overall losses, 
and I think she should. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was set 
by the fraudsters and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mrs R when making the 
transactions. 
Mrs R first came across the scam company on social media and was then 
asked to sign-up via WhatsApp. Legitimate investment companies wouldnt 
operate in this manner and Mrs R admits that she thought this to be strange at 
the time but went on to make the payments regardless. 
Mrs R appears to have believed what he was being told by the fraudsters 
without trying to independently verify the information they were giving her 
without completing any checks as to what she was being told.
Its clear from the WhatsApp messages shared between Mrs R and the 
fraudsters that Mrs R had some serious concerns about what was happening 
with her money but yet she continued to make payments in order to try and get 
her money back. Whilst I appreciate what Mrs R has said about being bullied 
into making further payments, I havent seen any evidence of this. The 
WhatsApp messages provided indicate that it was Mrs R who was contacting 
the fraudsters to initiate further trades. Had Mrs R had concerns about what 
was happening, she couldve contacted her bank.  
Overall, Im satisfied that there were a number of things here that should have caused Mrs R 
concern from the outset - but she continued to make payments. And so, Im satisfied that 
Mrs R M has failed to mitigate her own losses and therefore any award now put forward should reflect that she should bear some responsibility for her loss alongside BoS. Any 
compensation award should fairly and reasonably reflect the role that each party played in 
respect of the success of the scam. For this reason, I am satisfied that the most fair and 
reasonable outcome is for BoS to refund 50% of Mrs Rs loss from the 7th transaction 
onwards  alongside interest calculated at the account rate, minus any funds returned to the 
account. I think this settlement reflects that BoS couldve done more to prevent the success 
of the scam but equally Mrs R couldve carried out more checks on this company inline with 
her concerns or have gotten in touch with her bank.  
Recovery of funds
Ive thought about whether BoS couldve done more to help Mrs R once it was notified of the 
scam, but I dont think it could. 
In regard to the debit card payments, the only option available to BoS to recover Mrs Rs 
funds wouldve been to raise a chargeback under the Visa chargeback scheme. However, I 
dont think its unreasonable for BoS to have declined to do this. I agree that any potential 
chargeback wouldve likely been unsuccessful. Mrs Rs funds were transferred via a third-
party cryptocurrency exchange. And so, in this case, the requested service, the conversion of 
the funds into cryptocurrency, had been provided by the service provider. 
There was also little point in BoS contacting Company C as the funds had already been used 
to buy cryptocurrency and been moved on. So, this wouldnt have resulted in the return of 
Mrs Rs funds either. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to partially uphold this 
complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Bank of Scotland plc should now: 
refund Mrs R 50% of her total loss from 14 August onwards taking into account 
any funds already returned to her account. 
pay interest on that sum at the account rate from the date of the loss to the date of 
refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman