DRN-3772790
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont change their
mortgage to interest only, either on a short term or long term basis, so they can afford their 
payments, or waive the Early Repayment Charge (ERC), so they can move their mortgage.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr B and Mrs C, as the mortgage is in both their
names, our dealings have been with Mr B. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr B told us that although his business remains profitable, it has been severely affected by
world events, and that has led to a reduction in his income. That in turn has affected his
ability to pay the monthly mortgage payments, which are currently a little less than £1,500.
Although no arrears have yet accrued, he doesnt think the current mortgage payments are
sustainable in the short term.
Mr B told us hed asked Halifax to change this mortgage to interest only, probably only for a
temporary period. He thought that if Halifax would agree to change the mortgage to interest
only, at least for the remainder of his current fixed interest period (which runs up until 31
January 2026) he would be able to resume full payments, and go back to a repayment
mortgage, once this period was over, or perhaps earlier than this. But Mr B said Halifax had
said no.
Halifax wrote to Mr B on 25 February 2022, saying that it thought any change to interest only
wouldnt be affordable for him. It wouldnt make the change he wanted.
When Halifax spoke to our service, it said Mr B had told it he could only make a monthly
payment of around £250. So changing this mortgage to interest only would mean it was
affordable at the moment, but Halifax was concerned it wouldnt be affordable in the longer
term. And it didnt think a short term change to interest only would be helpful for Mr B,
because it would mean his monthly mortgage payments would then be much higher once he
started making capital repayments again.
Halifax also said that if Mr B wanted to move his mortgage elsewhere, an ERC was currently
payable. It wont waive that.
Mr B said he and Mrs C did meet all the criteria Halifax had for a long term change to
interest only, and he said Halifax had only turned him down because it was trying to phase
out the interest only product. He wanted us to tell Halifax to rethink its decision. Or
alternatively, he said that if Halifax would waive the ERC currently attached to his mortgage,
he would move his lending elsewhere and onto an interest only basis.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax didnt have to
waive an ERC if Mr B wanted to move his mortgage. He explained that an ERC is in place to
cover the potential losses to a lender if a fixed interest product is redeemed before the end
of the fixed rate term. He felt it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to waive this ERC, if it hadnt
made a mistake.
Our investigator said Halifax had to assess Mr Bs ability to repay the mortgage, if it was
going to make a substantial change to the lending, which was material to affordability. And
he said that, looking at the affordability criteria set out by Halifax and the figures from Mr B
and Mrs C, those didnt meet Halifaxs expectations. Our investigator said that Halifax had
applied its criteria fairly.
Our investigator said he wouldnt expect Halifax to make a short term change to Mr Bs
mortgage, because he had other ways of reducing the mortgage balance and making it more
affordable.
Mr B didnt agree, he said they had hit all of Halifaxs lending criteria. And he told us Halifax
had never gone through an income and expenditure calculation with him. He didnt agree
that a permanent change to interest only would be unaffordable. He offered to share his
income and expenditure assessment with our service. Mr B wanted this complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ill address the issues around a short term change to Mr Bs mortgage, and a long term
change to the mortgage, separately, as they raise different issues. But Ill start by 
looking at whether Halifax has to waive its ERC in this case.
Early repayment charge
If Mr B isnt able to reach an agreement with Halifax on reducing his mortgage 
payments, then he would like Halifax to waive its ERC, so he can move his mortgage 
elsewhere. I understand why, if Mr B anticipates difficulty in paying his mortgage in 
future, he would like to do this now, before any arrears might accrue. But as our 
investigator explained, an ERC isnt just profit for Halifax. Its got to be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs to Halifax if people repay their fixed rate lending before the end of 
the fixed interest rate period. So I dont think its fair to ask Halifax to waive that charge, 
in circumstances where I can see Mr B and Mrs C were properly notified of it, and where 
I havent identified any wrongdoing by Halifax.
Short term change to interest only
Halifax said it wouldnt be in Mr Bs interest to make a short term change to this 
mortgage. It said that Mr B had told it he could afford to pay £267 a month. Any change 
to interest only for a short period would mean that the monthly payments would be 
increased above their current level, when Mr B and Mrs C started making capital 
repayments again. If Mr B and Mrs C couldnt afford their repayments at the current 
level, Halifax didnt think it would be helpful to reduce things in the short term, then 
return them to an even higher payment amount in future. I think thats a reasonable 
assessment for Halifax to have made.
Our investigator also said that agreeing to make a short term change to an interest only 
mortgage is a concession, and he wouldnt expect Halifax to make a concession like this 
while Mr B and Mrs C do have another way of reducing the mortgage. They have 
explained that they have sufficient equity in separate rental properties to clear their mortgage now, but they dont wish to sell. Our investigator said Halifax doesnt have to 
make changes to Mr B and Mrs Cs current mortgage arrangements, solely to support 
that approach. I think thats right, and although a short term concession might be helpful 
for Mr B and Mrs C in some circumstances, I dont think it would be wrong for Halifax to 
refuse a short term concession in the circumstances Mr B described here.
Permanent change to interest only 
Mr B has argued strongly that if Halifax has offered an interest only mortgage, and he 
meets its headline criteria, then he ought to be able to access that mortgage type. And 
he says that he does meet the headline criteria for Halifaxs interest only mortgage. So 
he ought to be able to change to this product.
But I dont think thats right. I think that Halifaxs assessment of a request for what is a 
substantial change to its mortgage lending will be considerably more detailed than this. 
And Halifaxs initial response is based on what Mr B said he could afford, in terms of a 
monthly payment. If Halifax is making a permanent change to this mortgage, then it is 
obliged to assess whether Mr B and Mrs C could afford the repayments over the longer 
term. And based on what it understands about Mr B and Mrs Cs available income, it 
thinks that any change in interest rates would mean the payments wouldnt be 
affordable for them in future. I think thats a reasonable conclusion for Halifax to have 
drawn, in these circumstances.
Mr B thinks Halifax wont change his mortgage to interest-only, just because its trying to 
phase out interest only mortgages. I havent seen anything to make me think the 
reasons why Halifax has refused to make this change so far are because it wants to 
phase out this particular product. I think Halifax hasnt agreed to the change Mr B wants 
because it hasnt been able to see that this would be affordable for him in the longer 
term.
Mr B has told us that he hasnt completed a full income and expenditure breakdown for
Halifax. And I note that when Halifax contacted our service about this complaint, it said it
could seek an exception for Mr B and Mrs C, and ask its underwriters to reconsider their
decision not to make a permanent change to interest only. It would need some more
information from Mr B and Mrs C before it could do that, primarily clarifying their income 
and the properties they proposed to sell in future to redeem the mortgage. I also note 
that Halifaxs complaint response letter said it would also consider extending the term of 
Mr Bs mortgage, as a way to reduce the monthly payments.
Its not clear to me that it has been explained to Mr B that Halifax would reconsider its
decision, if he were to offer further information. However, Halifax hasnt promised that 
things will change, and applications for such exceptions are not frequently successful. 
Its also not clear whether Mr B has sought any extension to his mortgage term, and 
whether he might find this useful. So there may be other avenues for Mr B to explore.
Ive considered whether to delay this decision in order for Mr B to look into those 
options. But as Mr B has challenged Halifaxs refusal to make a temporary change to his 
mortgage, and as he has also challenged the initial decision that Halifax made, I think 
its appropriate to reach a decision on whether Halifax has acted fairly to date. And from 
what Ive seen so far, I think it has. So, although I know that Mr B and Mrs C will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax replied to acknowledge my decision, and say that it had nothing to add. It said it 
remained willing to discuss Mr B and Mrs Cs circumstances with them, to see if there were 
any options which would be suitable for their needs. 
Mr B and Mrs C didnt reply.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman