DRN-2540951
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) provided her 
with an unaffordable loan. She says her application was initially declined because of her 
mortgage repayments. But Everyday Lending then suggested applying using her parents 
address as this would mean the monthly mortgage payment wouldnt be included and lead to 
her being accepted for the loan.  
  
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 11 January 2021
Everyday Lending provided Miss B with a loan of £2,500.00 in April 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 149.3% and a 36-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£7,729.56 was due to be repaid in 36 instalments of £214.71.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that Everyday Lending had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss B disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
On 11 January 2021, I issued a provisional decision which set out my initial findings on    
Miss Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by saying that having carefully thought about everything, I thought that there were 
two overarching questions I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide     
Miss Bs complaint. Those two questions were:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started by considering the first of the questions. 
My consideration of this matter began by me explaining that Everyday Lending provided this 
loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss B. In practice this
meant that Everyday Lending had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
Were Everyday Lendings checks reasonable and proportionate?
My response to this question started by saying Everyday Lending said it carried out an 
income and expenditure assessment with Miss B prior to providing her with this loan. It also 
carried out a credit check and obtained proof of Miss Bs identity. Miss B confirmed that she 
was earning around £1,600.00 a month and lived with her parents, with her two dependent 
children and didnt pay anything towards rent or board. 
Everyday Lending said it used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate     
Miss B had approximate living expenses of around £450. Everyday Lending said Miss B had 
enough left to make the required monthly loan payments, when the estimated living costs 
and the monthly payments needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the credit 
check carried out, were deducted from Miss Bs monthly income.  
I considered what Everyday Lending said. But I was extremely disappointed by the lack of 
candour it had shown. While it had referred to some of what happened in April 2019, I didnt 
think it had provided the whole story. And most importantly it failed to disclose that this 
wasnt Miss Bs first Everyday Lending loan application. Miss Bs credit file showed that she made a loan application in February 2019 using a different address from the one used on 
this application. The address used for the earlier application was the address on the driving 
licence Everyday Lending saw when verifying Miss Bs identity.   
I said it was unclear how and why Everyday Lending proceeded with a loan application using 
an address Miss B wasnt residing at. But Miss Bs credit file clearly showed Everyday 
Lending declined a loan application made using Miss Bs actual address details a matter of 
weeks earlier. And while there wasnt enough for me to make a finding that Everyday 
Lending actively encouraged Miss B to make a loan application using an address she wasnt 
residing at in order for her mortgage payments to be excluded from her expenditure, the 
proximity between the two applications did make her account of events plausible.
In any event, leaving aside any concerns I had about the possibility of Everyday Lending 
encouraging Miss B to provide inaccurate information, it wasnt in dispute that the subject of 
the mortgage payments for the property Miss B was residing at was covered in a phone call 
between Everyday Lending and Miss B, as part of the April 2019 application. Miss B told 
Everyday Lending that her ex-husband was now making the payments to the mortgage. 
It was my understanding that Miss B was asked to evidence this and provided a copy of a 
bank statement to show that she hadnt made the mortgage payment that month. But, in my 
view, this merely demonstrated that the mortgage payment wasnt made from the account 
Miss B had previously made them from. In my view, it didnt show how the mortgage 
payments were now being made and most crucially that Miss Bs ex-husband would be 
making them going forward. I thought this was especially important as Everyday Lending 
was aware Miss B had been making the £1,200.00 a month mortgage payments at the time 
of the previous application and its my understanding that this was the reason the February 
2019 application was declined in the first place.
Furthermore, Miss B also made it clear, during the course of the phone conversation, that 
she was living at and would continue living at her home, rather than with her parents. This 
meant the living expenses Everyday Lending estimated for Miss B, were likely to be 
incorrect, bearing in mind she would have the associated costs of running a household even 
if it were the case her ex-husband (for the reasons, Id already explained, I wasnt persuaded 
Everyday Lending was reasonably entitled to believe this was the case) made the mortgage 
payments. 
Equally, I thought Miss Bs comments also called into question the stated loan purpose of 
home improvements at her parents property, given she clearly wasnt going to be living 
there. I also thought it was important to consider all of this against the backdrop that the 
credit search Everyday Loans carried out also showed that shed taken out a loan for around 
£13,000.00 in the period between her first Everyday Lending application being declined and 
this second application.            
In these circumstances, I thought it was unreasonable to continue with the application using 
a wholly unrealistic estimate of monthly expenditure based on ONS data, which was based 
on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer. Everyday Lending knew, when it 
lent to Miss B, that it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside this average portfolio 
and someone who itd declined to lend to a mere matter of weeks earlier. 
I didnt think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments 
and expenditure of someone in Miss Bs circumstances was fair, reasonable and 
proportionate especially bearing in mind the sheer number of inconsistencies thrown up as a 
result of the content of the phone call it had with Miss B.Bearing all of this in mind, I thought that Everyday Lending needed to take steps to verify    
Miss Bs expenditure instead of choosing to rely on an over optimistic calculation of her 
monthly disposable income based on ONS data and having minimal living expenses as a 
result of living with her parents. As I couldnt see that Everyday Lending did do this, or in fact 
took any steps at all to address the inconsistencies, I didnt think that the checks it carried 
out before providing Miss B with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Everyday Lending that Miss B
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to decide whether it was more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Everyday Lending that Miss B 
wouldve been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
I started by consideration of this matter by explaining Everyday Lending was required to 
establish whether Miss B could make her loan repayments without experiencing significant 
adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence calculation.
I carefully considered the information provided. In doing so, it quickly became clear that   
Miss B was making the payments to the mortgage. And when her other regular living costs 
including childcare and existing committed expenditure were included, her income wasnt 
anywhere near enough to meet her existing commitments let alone make the repayments to 
this additional loan.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss B would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue. And as that was 
the case, I set out that I intended to issue a final decision which found that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Everyday Lending to the fact 
that Miss B was in no sort of position to afford the repayments on this loan.
I then went on to consider the second of the overarching questions set out on page 1. And I 
carefully thought about what Miss B had said about being encouraged to make this loan 
application using incorrect information. But by this stage Id already explained that while   
Miss Bs version of events was plausible and it was possible this was what happened, there 
wasnt enough to persuade me this was more likely than not what happened. 
In any event, as Id already found that Everyday Lending shouldnt have entered into this 
agreement with Miss B in the first place because it ought to have realised that the loan was 
unaffordable, I didnt think that any finding that I may have made in relation to whether 
Everyday Lending encouraged Miss B to provide inaccurate information, would have 
materially affected Miss Bs position.
So as it wasnt necessary for me to do so, I make no finding on whether or not Everyday 
Lending actively encouraged Miss B to make this loan application using her parents address 
and this resulted in her unfairly entering into this agreement.
As this was the case, and I hadnt seen anything else in the file to suggest that it did, I didnt
think that Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other 
way.I also thought that as Miss B had paid or was being expected to pay interest and charges on 
a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, I was satisfied that she had lost out as a 
result of what Everyday Lending did wrong.
So I thought that Everyday Lending needed to put things right and set out a method of 
putting things right for Miss B, which I found addressed Everyday Lendings failings and      
Miss Bs resulting loss.
Everyday Lendings response to my provisional decision
Everyday Lending didnt provide anything further for me to consider, or ask for any additional 
time to do so.
Miss Bs response to my provisional decision  
 
Miss B responded to confirm that she was happy with my provisional decision and proposed 
settlement. She also provided no further points for me to consider.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Having taken everything into account, I remain of the view that the two overarching 
questions I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 11 January 2021. Given this is the case, and Ive not been 
provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 11 January 2021.
As Ive already explained why Miss B lost out because Everyday Lending didnt act fairly and 
reasonably towards her, I think it should put things right for Miss B. And Ill now set out what 
I think Everyday Lending should do.   
  
Fair compensation - what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Miss Bs complaint for Everyday Lending to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Thepayments Miss B has made should be deducted from the £2,500.00 she was
originally lent. Everyday Lending should treat any payments made if and when the
£2,500.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Miss B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Miss B to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest.
Everyday Lending must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
she asks for one.
Id also remind Everyday Lending of its obligation to exercise forbearance if, which at 
present appears likely, an outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made to Miss Bs account and its the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 11 January 2021, Im 
upholding Miss Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited should put things right in the way 
set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman