DRN-2850696
The complaint
Mr S complains about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have handled 
his claim under his property investors insurance policy. 
Mr S has made some of his submissions via a third party, but for ease of reading Ill mainly 
refer to Mr S. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some of the key events here. Mr S has the benefit of insurance 
for certain legal expenses which is provided by DAS. 
In March 2018, Mr S made a claim for assistance in relation to a dispute he was having with 
a tenant. The initial claim form records that he already had a solicitor (who Ill refer to as H) 
working for him. DAS took steps to assess the claim and in January 2019 a complaint was 
raised. Mr S was unhappy with delays caused by DAS and the impact these had. In 
March 2019 DAS issued their final response (FRL) to the complaint. In summary, DAS said 
that without any delays the earliest they would have been in a position to accept the claim 
was 4 June 2018. So, they agreed to backdate cover to that date. But they pointed out that 
their contribution towards Hs costs would be limited to an hourly rate of £100 per hour in line 
with the policy terms. This letter also included a warning that if Mr S was unhappy with this 
response, he could bring the matter to our service but must do so within six months of the 
date of that letter. 
Following on from this there were further delays in arranging settlement of the costs and a 
dispute as to the amount. Another complaint was made in September 2019. DAS issued 
another FRL on 30 October 2019. This explained how the settlement figure had been 
calculated and said that the correct amount had been paid in line with the policy terms. It 
said that H were responsible for some of the delays, but that DAS too could have been more 
pro-active and timelier. So, for the impact of this they offered £300 compensation. 
In January 2020, Mr S first contacted our service about his complaint. He said DAS initial 
failure to correctly log his claim meant that he had to instruct H himself and that this had 
resulted in him being around £12,000 out of pocket, compared to if hed used a panel firm. 
One of our investigators didnt think we could consider all of Mr S complaint. He thought 
everything in DAS March 2019 FRL had been referred to us too late. And for what he could 
consider, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagrees and has asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining 
why some of what Mr S wishes to complain about has been referred to us too late. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that much of Mr S complaint is something I cant comment on because it falls 
outside our jurisdiction for the reasons Ive already explained. So the starting point here is 
that DAS backdated cover to June 2018 and agreed to pay £100 per hour towards the legal 
costs. And from the evidence Ive seen they appear to have settled the claim in line with this, 
so I dont think DAS need to do anything further.  
Its also accepted by both sides that there were further delays (since the previous FRL in 
March 2019). DAS say that some of those delays were due to H, but they accepted they too 
were at fault and offered £300 compensation for the impact of that. 
I have to keep in mind that going through legal action will always be a stressful and difficult 
time. And I have to, as far as is possible, isolate the impact of DAS failures. Having carefully 
considered this Im satisfied that £300 is a fair amount to compensate Mr S for the distress 
and inconvenience he would have experienced as a result of DAS delays. And whilst this 
might feel insufficient to Mr S, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct DAS to compensate him for 
the stress caused by the wider circumstances. If this amount hasnt already been paid and 
Mr S would like to accept it, he should contact DAS to arrange this. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman