DRN-1486508
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage to their boundary wall.
background
Mr and Mrs Bs boundary wall collapsed during strong winds. The wall is at the rear of their 
property and it continues across their neighbours side  also forming their boundary wall. 
Their neighbours section also collapsed.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home insurance. Fairmead noted that storm winds had 
occurred around the date of the incident, and it appointed surveyors to inspect the damage. 
A surveyor declined the claim on site. They left a form that noted the wall was too high for 
100mm block construction, and highlighted a nearby tree. 
The surveyors also sent Mr and Mrs B a letter which explained the damage was due to 
gradually operating causes. The letter explained the wall was old and it had moss and 
vegetation on it. A report was also sent to Fairmead with photos and the surveyors 
observations:
The wall was 1.7m high and a single skin construction, with supporting pillars to 
either side.
 
Theres a mature tree growing against the wall which will have caused root incursion 
and movement; and cracks extend from the foundations up a neighbouring wall.
 
The surveyors opinion was that a wellbuilt wall would not have been damaged by 
the recorded winds. The wall was built too high for a single skin structure, and the 
tree is too close.
 
Mr and Mrs B complained that they had checked with building regulations and their wall was 
built well within the limits that applied at the time  and the letter they received about the 
decision didnt mention the height, but rather gradually operating causes. They also 
explained their neighbours insurer had accepted their claim.
Fairmead reiterated the observations in the surveyors report, and it highlighted government 
advice about the height of garden walls. Fairmead also said a wall in good condition should 
be able to be withstand 50mph winds  the highest windspeed recorded at the time of the 
incident. Fairmead concluded the high winds had merely highlighted pre-existing issues.
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. But based on the surveyors observations, she thought the claim had been 
fairly declined. 
Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. They made the following points:Their wall wasnt a single skin brick construction, it was a larger block construction. It 
was built in about 1980 and the height was within building regulations at that time.
 
The tree wasnt against the wall, but next to it. The tree has since been removed, not 
because of the incident, but because it was due to come down.
 
The cracks in their neighbours wall are several metres from their property, so they 
fail to see the relevance of them. There were no cracks in their wall before it fell.
 
The surveyors continually changed their reasoning.
 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
 
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
Fairmead has confirmed that the windspeeds met the storm definition within the policy terms; 
and a collapsed wall is typical of the damage caused by a storm. Therefore, Im satisfied the 
first two conditions have been met. 
However, on balance, Im not persuaded the third condition has been met, i.e. that the storm 
winds, though relatively strong, were the main cause of the damage. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B havent provided any supporting information about the building regulations that 
applied at the time the wall was built, but I accept what they say. Nonetheless, in my view, 
the current guidance still supports that their wall was vulnerable due to its design. 
The surveyor has referenced 100mm blocks and the wall being single skin (i.e. the wall was 
only half a brick in thickness). The photos Ive seen supports those observations; and the 
guidance explains walls of this nature, in Mr and Mrs Bs geographical area, shouldnt 
exceed about 500mm in height. However, their wall was thought to be 1,700mm.
Having said that, the wall had stood for a long time. So, Im not persuaded its design was the 
only reason it collapsed. On balance, based on the surveyors observations, Im persuaded 
the main cause was the condition of the wall. Ive seen a photo of the mature tree that was 
next to the wall, and although Mr and Mrs B say there werent any cracks in their wall, Im 
not persuaded they are correct. The surveyor observed cracks in a nearby wall from its 
foundations, and I consider it a reasonable conclusion the wall closest to the tree was 
suffering from similar but worse damage.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs upset if their neighbours insurer is covering their section of 
the wall. However, Im not considering that insurers decision. I dont know the policy terms that applied or the reason it decided to accept the claim. But simply because it decided to 
cover the loss, doesnt mean Fairmead's decision was wrong or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a document that their neighbours were given by their insurers 
surveyor. But in my view, the document doesnt contain anything that contradicts Fairmead's 
surveyors observations. It simply states storm and there isnt any commentary about the 
pre-existing condition of the wall. As such, Im not persuaded I can reasonably rely on this 
information.
Having considered all the arguments made, Im more persuaded by the expert opinion of the 
surveyor, than anything Mr and Mrs B have said or presented. Im persuaded, on balance, 
that the wall was suffering from structural damage due to the tree, and the condition of the 
wall was the main cause of it collapsing  and when coupled with the design and height of 
the wall, this led to it being vulnerable in strong winds. So, whilst I accept the wind was a 
contributing factor, based on the information available, I consider it likely the storm winds 
simply highlighted existing problems. Having reviewed the policy terms, Im satisfied this 
cause of damage isnt covered.
I acknowledge the reasoning in the declinature letter Mr and Mrs B received ought to have 
been clearer. In my opinion, it lacked clarity in terms of why their claim had been declined. 
However, in view of the rationale documented in the surveyors report, Im satisfied 
Fairmead hasnt acted unreasonably by declining the claim.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman