DRN-3495550
The complaint
Mr K complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mistakenly didnt remove 
a dispute  marker from his credit card. This meant that he wasnt charged any interest on 
his card for over three years. 
Mr K complained when Halifax told him it would start charging him interest on his balance 
again. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr K raised a dispute with Halifax for £5,000. It was about a vehicle hed 
bought which needed repairs. Halifax raised whats called a Section 75 claim for him. In 
August 2018 Mr K accepted £4,338.55 from the seller for the cost of repairs. This was paid 
to another Halifax account in Mr Ks name.
During the dispute, Halifax had put a dispute marker on Mr Ks account. This was so he 
wouldnt be charged interest on the amount while the matter was being investigated. 
When Mr K accepted the settlement in August 2018, Halifax should have removed the 
marker. But it didnt do so. And when recording the dispute marker, it had also mistakenly 
put a much higher figure than the total dispute. This meant that, for all Mr Ks spending after 
that, he wasnt charged interest. His statements from that point onwards showed no interest 
charged, and no monthly minimum payment required.
On 22 December 2021, Halifax realised what had happened. It wrote to Mr K to say that this 
would be corrected from late January 2022. 
Mr K went to a Halifax branch. He said the letter hadnt been clear, and didnt provide much 
information about the impact on his finances. The branch raised a complaint on his behalf.
In its final response letter on 10 January, Halifax explained what had happened about the 
disputed car repair, and that it should have removed the dispute marker when Mr K had 
accepted the settlement offer in August 2018. It said that, going forward, Mr K would be 
charged interest on his current balance, and hed be required to make a monthly minimum 
payment too. 
Because of its mistake, Halifax paid Mr K £100 compensation. And it said it understood Mr K 
might want to move his balance to another provider who could give him a 0% balance 
transfer offer. So it said it would give Mr K another three months without paying any interest. 
The balance on Mr Ks account on the 13 January 2022 statement was £9,338.31.
Mr K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Halifaxs December 2021 letter 
was vague, with hardly any details of the dispute, when they knew the details but hadnt 
disclosed them. Mr K said it was making him depressed and anxious. He said he wanted the 
disputed figure cancelled, or his card balance written off. And he asked how interest would 
be calculated, and whether it would be for the past years too.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said he thought Halifaxs offer was fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr K didnt agree. He said he felt the investigator hadnt fully captured and rendered the 
overall consequential impact of Halifaxs blunder. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K would have found Halifaxs 22 December 2021 letter confusing. 
As he said, it didnt give details about the original dispute, and its not clear what would 
happen afterwards. But the final response letter, a couple of weeks later, did explain things 
much more clearly. 
First, Id reassure Mr K that he hasnt been charged the dispute marker figure, so theres no 
disputed figure to cancel as he requests. The dispute marker figure which Halifax recorded 
on Mr Ks account wasnt an actual debit which Mr K would have to pay for. It was a 
theoretical figure, recorded separately, which just set how much Mr K could spend before 
Halifax charged him any interest or required a minimum monthly payment. The balance on 
his card was only what hed spent himself.
Halifax had made two mistakes in 2018:
- it didnt remove the dispute marker when Mr K agreed to the car repair settlement in 
August 2018;
- it also made a mistake about the amount of the marker, putting a much higher figure 
than the actual dispute. The figure was also higher than Mr Ks credit limit.  
So Halifaxs mistakes actually led to a significant advantage for Mr K. He didnt have to pay 
any interest, or any minimum monthly payment, on a significant balance, for over three 
years.
Ive looked at Mr Ks statements, and they show clearly that there was no interest charged, 
and no minimum payments. And I can see from Halifaxs notes of the dispute that on 17 July 
2018, Mr K himself asked Halifax to put the transaction into dispute so no interest will be 
charged. So I think its likely that hed had some understanding of a transaction being put 
into dispute, and that hed also have noticed from his statements that he wasnt being 
charged interest or required to make a monthly minimum payment on his account. Hed been 
charged interest, and had had to make a monthly minimum payment, before his car dispute.
Ive gone on to look at Halifaxs actions and its offer to Mr K:
- I consider it was fair that Halifaxs final response letter extended Mr Ks interest 
waiver for three months. It said that it was doing this to enable him to look elsewhere 
for a 0% balance transfer if he wished to do so. As Mr Ks balance by that stage was 
around £10,000, I think this was a fair offer from Halifax. 
- Mr K asked us whether interest would be calculated to include interest going back 
over the previous years. But theres been no suggestion from Halifax that it planned 
to do that. It just said that Mr K would be charged interest on his outstanding balance 
going forward. Thats in line with the terms and conditions and I consider its fair and 
reasonable.- Mr K benefited significantly from not being charged interest on his outstanding 
balance for over three years. Certainly Halifaxs 22 December 2021 letter was far 
from clear, but this was put right by the clarity of the final response letter on 10 
January 2022. So I consider Halifaxs payment of £100 compensation was more than 
fair in all the circumstances.
So I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint for more action from Halifax. The dispute marker was 
notional, not an actual debit. And I can see no reason why Halifax should write off Mr Ks 
balance, which reflects money which hed spent. And I find that the compensation Halifax 
paid was more than fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman