DRN-2705193
The complaint
 Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (Marbles) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr J applied for a Marbles credit card and this was issued in May 2016 with a limit of £300. 
In September 2016, the limit was increased to £950. In February 2018 the debt was passed 
to a debt collection agency and then sold to a debt purchaser in February 2019.
Mr J complained that he shouldnt have been given the card in the first place. He had other 
debts with late payments and defaults were showing on his credit file. He now had adverse 
markers on his credit file.
Marbles said theyd lent responsibly. Mr Js application said he had income of £13,000 per 
annum, and other income of £40,000, with no other unsecured debt. There were no arrears 
showing. There were defaults on his credit file, but these were 30 months old. He was given 
the option of opting out of the offered increase in limit to £950 but didnt. He hadnt contacted 
them to say he was in difficulty. His debt was sold to a debt purchaser in February 2019. The 
entries on Mr Js credit file were an accurate reflection of what happened.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Marbles hadnt lent responsibly. 
He thought the issue of the card in the first place was OK. But the increase in limit to £950 
wasnt. Marbles shouldve considered the three defaults, even though the last one was 30 
months old. She noted that the account went over its limit quickly after the card was issued, 
and a late payment fee was charged in September 2016. Following the increase in limit to 
£950 in September 2016, Mr J exceeded the limit six times in the next 12 months and 
incurred late payment fees in seven months. Marbles shouldnt have increased Mr Js limit. 
They should therefore refund interest and charges from September 2016, until the debt was 
sold to the debt purchaser. And pay 8% simple interest on interest and charges. Any 
adverse information on Mr Js credit file should be removed from September 2016 onwards.
Marbles disagreed and asked that Mr Js complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr J says he shouldnt have been given the card in the first place and because of this, and 
the subsequent limit increase, he had a debt he couldnt repay. And his credit file had been 
marked. Marbles say that he met their credit risk criteria. The defaults were 30 months old  
which was ok. And, he didnt decline the offered increase to £950.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Marbles acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
Ive looked at Mr Js original application. It says he was a student, living with parents and 
with an annual income of £13,000  with other income of £40,000.  To me, this looks as if 
Marbles shouldve asked questions  students dont, in general, have an annual income of 
this amount  unless it was Mr Js student loan which he was referring to. But  questions 
shouldve been asked. I can also see there were two payday loans recorded by Marbles  
again, Id have expected these to have been looked into  as they werent consistent with Mr 
Js stated income or his living with parents. The purpose of the card  stated as to lower my 
bills might also have caused Marbles to ask questions  it couldve meant he was struggling 
with other debts. But, on balance, I agree that it was probably OK to issue the card, with a 
relatively modest limit.
By the time of the increase  in September 2016  I can see that Mr J had almost 
immediately borrowed up to the original limit of £300 and incurred a late payment fee. So 
that - coupled with the previous information theyd at the time of the opening of the account - 
suggests to me that Marbles shouldve asked questions of Mr J before increasing the limit. 
But they didnt. 
The effect of what happened was that Mr J fell into arrears  and a Default Notice was sent 
to him in January 2018. In February 2018, the debt was passed to a DCA to manage agreed 
repayments, but Mr J didnt meet these. In February 2019, the debt was sold to a debt 
purchaser. 
Putting things right
I think that Marbles shouldnt have increased Mr Js limit to £950 in September 2016. So, I 
agree with our investigator that Mr J should be put back in the place he was in at that time. 
Marbles should therefore refund all interest and charges debited to Mr Js account since 
September 2016. And remove any adverse information advised to credit reference agencies 
since September 2016. And he should also receive 8% per annum simple interest on the 
interest and charges hes paid since then  I note that hes missed a lot of payments since 
that time, so the benefit of that may be limited. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles must:
Refund all interest and charges on borrowing since September 2016. This should be 
credited to Mr Js debt with the debt purchaser.
Pay 8% per annum simple interest on charges and interest since September 2016  
where Mr J has paid these. This should be credited to Mr Js debt with the debt 
purchaser.Remove any adverse information advised to credit reference agencies since 
September 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman