DRN-2726183
The complaint
Miss E complains that TransUnion International UK Limited refused to remove out of date 
and inaccurate information from her credit file. She wants the information removed and 
compensation. 
What happened
Miss E tells us that she issued a data erasure notice which related to issues about the 
recording of old addresses and the use of an incomplete version of her name on her credit 
file. She tells us that TransUnion didnt comply with her requests to ensure the information it 
recorded was accurate.
TransUnion told us that it had raised disputes with various lenders on behalf of Miss E but it 
couldnt alter the data it recorded without the permission of the data supplier. It said that 
where lenders didnt reply it had suppressed the information it had recorded. It later agreed 
to remove those addresses which were not linked to credit that was still within the six year 
retention period.
Our investigator explained that TransUnion had raised disputes with various lenders. And it 
had received replies which indicated that Miss E had herself used an incomplete version of 
her name on some applications. So the information reported was correct. And that it would 
be for Miss E to take this up with the relevant businesses. He said that hed mediated the 
issue of addresses that werent linked to credit that was still being reported. He thought 
TransUnions offer to remove addresses which werent linked to accounts that were within 
the six year retention period was fair.
Miss E accepted the offer to remove the addresses but didnt accept the rest of the 
investigators view. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Es desire to ensure that her credit record is maintained in an accurate 
and up to date manner.
Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) such as TransUnion dont supply the information which is 
reported  they store it for financial referencing based on information supplied by financial 
businesses.
Our approach is that if an individual raises a dispute with a CRA about the information 
recorded, we expect the CRA to carry out enquiries and contact the relevant business. 
Thats what happened here.
If a business declines to give consent for the CRA to remove information, its necessary for 
the customer to take that up with the relevant business. Where a business doesnt reply the 
CRA may suppress the information until such time as the business makes a further report.
TransUnion carried out the processes wed expect. And as far as I can see its adequately 
explained why it was unable to accede to all of Miss Es requests.
In my opinion its acted fairly in referring Miss E to those businesses which declined to alter 
the information they had reported. And it suppressed the information provided by those 
businesses which didnt respond. In addition, its offer to remove addresses which arent 
linked to credit currently being reported is fair.
In summary, I dont think this is a case which requires TransUnion to compensate Miss E in 
addition to removing those addresses which are not required. So I shant be asking it to do 
anything else. 
Putting things right
TransUnion has agreed to remove addresses which are not linked to credit entries which are 
still being reported within the six year retention period. I understand it has already taken this 
action. 
My final decision
TransUnion International UK Limited made an offer to remove addresses from Miss Es 
credit file which werent linked to accounts that were currently being reported. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. And as TransUnion International UK 
Limited has already taken the action that I wouldve required it to take, it neednt do anything 
else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman