DRN-3194688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Critical Illness Cover (CIC) was not included in their life 
insurance policy which was sold by Neilson Financial Services Limited trading as Smart 
Insurance (Smart Insurance). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties. In summary, Mr and Mrs A 
purchased a joint life insurance policy over the phone through Smart Insurance. Mrs A was 
later diagnosed with Parkinsons Disease and she called Smart Insurance but found out no 
cover was available for this. So, they cancelled the policy and complained.  
Smart Insurance responded to the complaint and explained why they didnt uphold it. Mr and 
Mrs A remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator issued their 
view and set out why they thought Smart Insurance hadnt done anything wrong.
 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the view. They said they thought they had been paying for full 
cover including life, accident and critical illness. They also set out why they felt the sales call 
was misleading and where the call handler had missed opportunities to discuss CIC as an 
optional extra. Therefore, the complaint has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our Investigator for these reasons:
 
Ive listened to the initial call recording from April 2014. The call handler provided 
information about the policy but Im satisfied this was a non-advised sale. So, the call 
handler didnt comment on the suitability of the cover. Nevertheless, Id expect 
reasonable information to be provided in order to allow Mr and Mrs A to make an 
informed decision. 
Mr A had previously called Smart Insurance in October 2013. However, some time 
passed before they called again and took out a policy. Therefore, Im content Mr and 
Mrs A relied on the information provided in April 2014 when deciding to take out their 
life insurance policy. 
During the call, CIC was mentioned as an optional extra but the call handler didnt go 
on to discuss it in detail. I recognize there were opportunities to do so. However, Im 
satisfied the call handler clearly explained what the life cover with terminal illness 
benefit included. They said a lump sum would be paid out on the death of either Mr 
or Mrs A or if either of them was diagnosed with a terminal illness and given twelve 
months or less to live.
Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule sent with the welcome pack to Mr and Mrs A 
in April 2014. It stated the benefit was for life insurance and there was no mention of 
CIC. It does include the answers to Mr and Mrs As health and lifestyle questionnaire, 
but this doesnt mean they had taken out CIC. Smart Insurance obtained this 
information for the underwriters so they can provide the life insurance. 
Ive seen a copy of the key facts and policy terms and conditions also sent with the 
welcome pack. Smart Insurance set out what was included with the life insurance 
cover. They also set out CIC as an optional extra and provided information about 
what was included. Therefore, Smart Insurance provided reasonable information 
about the policy and optional extras so Mr and Mrs A could decide if the policy they 
purchased met their needs. 
 
The information provided by Smart Insurance following the sale and throughout the 
duration of the policy was also clear. For example, Ive seen renewal documents from 
March 2017 and March 2018 and the new policy schedules confirmed Mr and Mrs A 
had life insurance. There was no reference to CIC being included.  
Also, Mr and Mrs A made calls to Smart Insurance about their policy. Ive listened to 
the call recordings provided and Im content they received clear information. For 
example, during a call in May 2014 the call handler covered what the standard life 
insurance included and under what circumstances the benefit would be paid.  
I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A. However, Im satisfied the 
initial sales call was clear. It would have been helpful to set out the option of CIC, but the call 
handler was clear about what the standard life insurance included. And it did not include 
CIC. The welcome pack sent out included information about CIC as an optional extra. As this 
was a non-advised sale, it was for Mr and Mrs A to ensure, based on the information they 
had, that the policy met their needs. And Im content the information provided by Smart 
Insurance was sufficient and allowed them to do this. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman