DRN-4096049
The complaint
Mr C complains through a representative that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans 
(Shelby) provided him with loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr C was granted five loans by Shelby, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 08/08/2019 21/02/2020 6 £161.84
2 £600.00 12/03/2020 23/09/2020 6 £190.24
3 £300.00 01/10/2020 21/03/2021 6 £85.68
gap in lending
4 £200.00 09/10/2021 21/01/2022 3 £109.34
5 £350.00 02/02/2022 22/07/2022 6 £107.06
Shelby considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks before each loan was 
approved. The results of these checks showed Shelby Mr C could afford the loans. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. It also provided copies of Mr Cs bank statements. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, taking 
account of the break in the lending chain - Shelby had carried out proportionate checks 
before each loan was approved which demonstrated Mr C could afford his repayments. 
Mr Cs representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in either lending chain where this applied.  
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Having reviewed the lending history I am also satisfied that there are two chains of lending. 
The first chain loans 1  3 and the second chain contains loans 4 and 5. There are two 
chains because there is a significant break of around seven months between Mr C repaying 
loan 3 and returning for loan 4. 
Due to the significant break, it would be reasonable for Shelby to have treated Mr Cs 
applications afresh and if he were a new customer. So, although, loan 4 was his fourth loan 
in total, it was in fact the first loan of a new chain and that does have consequences for what 
a proportionate check may have included. 
Having looked at everything, including accounting for the break in the lending chain, Im 
satisfied Shelby carried out proportionate checks before each loan was granted which 
showed it that Mr C would be able to afford his loan repayments. I am therefore not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ive explained why below. 
Before each loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr C for details of his income, which he 
declared ranged from £1,200 to £1,450 per month. Mr C also declared monthly outgoings of 
between £450 and £865 per month. This left the smallest amount of disposable income 
when loan 3 was approved of £425 to afford the payment of £110. Based solely on the 
information Shelby collected all the loans appeared affordable. As part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr C had declared about his expenditure 
with data from two different sources and if needed made adjustments. Firstly, it used Office 
of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, it used information from Mr Cs credit search 
(which Ill go into in more detail below). 
Therefore, after the ONS data and credit search results were factored into the income and 
expenditure assessment  Shelby reduced Mr Cs disposable income for some of the loans. 
For example, for loan 1, it increased Mr Cs outgoings from the self-declared amount of £450 
to £728 per month. This reduced Mr Cs disposable income from £850 to £572 per month. 
However, even when Shelby made adjustments to the disposable income that Mr C had 
declared, he still had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he 
had to make. 
Before these loans were approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although Shelby carried out a credit searches there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is 
carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr C was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were 
no insolvency markers, or debt management plans. 
Shelby was also aware that only when loan 3 was approved, he had one other active payday 
loan account  but that alone wouldnt be enough to say that Shelby needed to do further 
checks. 
In my view, there wasnt anything in the credit check results that ought to have led Shelby to 
either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or prompted it to 
have declined Mr Cs application for credit. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Shelby to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr C had provided. So, while Mr Cs representative has provided his bank 
statements, in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have considered 
them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have relied on the 
information Mr C provided about hit income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Mr C was having financial difficulties or that these loans would 
be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman