DRN-4182077
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Portafina Investment Management Limited to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr R contacted Portafina in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand 
that Mr R saw an online advertisement for Portafina about pension transfers, and registered 
his interest about a transfer. Portafina then contacted him following this. 
Portafina completed a telephone fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances 
and objectives. This showed, and Mr R has also explained as part of the complaint, that he:
Was aged 54 and employed, hed been in the same employment for 21 years and he 
was earning £25,000. 
Was a member of his employers DB scheme. 
Was living with his partner but had no dependents. 
Had no financial assets.
Was renting a council property which was costing him £400 a month.
Had an unsecured loan to which he was paying £170 a month.
Had disposable income of £230 a month 
Mr R received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for the benefits he held in the DB 
scheme. The amount shown on the suitability report was £110,769. Mr R also had some 
additional voluntary contributions (AVC). The AVC had a CETV of £5,606.08.
Its worth noting here that when the DB transfer went ahead the CETV had increased to 
£122,266.83. 
Portafina also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it said was 
cautious and that he had a low capacity for loss. The DB scheme was his main pension 
provision. 
On 4 February 2019, Portafina advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds. The SIPP invested in the providers global short dated bond fund and its 
world equity funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that 
Mr R:
Wanted to purchase his property from the council. He had the opportunity to do this 
at a heavily discounted price.
Was able to opt back into his DB scheme following the transfer to enable him to 
continue to benefit from his employers contributions.
Didnt want to borrow to fund the house purchase, and he couldnt buy the house 
using his disposable income
Mr R complained in 2022 to Portafina about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that: 
He wasnt made aware of the benefits he would be losing by transferring out of the 
DB scheme and the advice wasnt properly explained
He used the tax-free cash to put a deposit down on his home. However, he says no 
alternatives, such as loans, were offered to this by Portafina. 
He didnt think he was able to make an informed decision about what options he had.
The DB scheme was Mr Rs main source of retirement income so he could not afford 
to lose it and wasnt looking to take any risk with his pension.
Mr R thinks the transfer exposed him to unnecessary risk.
Portafina didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that the council had offered Mr R a greatly 
discounted price to purchase the council property that he was renting. He could purchase 
the house for £50,000 and the market value of it was £110,000. So, Mr R would achieve an 
immediate gain on the transfer and he would free up a significant amount of disposable 
income. He was also able to opt back into the DB scheme following the transfer so would be 
able to accrue further DB scheme benefits. Portafina thinks the transfer was in Mr Rs best 
interests.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Portafina pay compensation. Our Investigator said that Mr R was very 
likely to receive much lower benefits at retirement than he would have done from the DB 
scheme. And its likely that he would have been able to purchase his council properly using 
other means rather than use his pension. The other advantages of the DB Transfer, such as 
better death benefits, werent enough to outweigh the reduction in retirement benefits. 
Portafina disagreed, saying:
It wasnt aware that Mr R part financed his property purchase with a loan. The fact 
find showed that he had no savings or spare income, and was bankrupt some time 
ago, so he may have found this difficult to do. 
In a fact find call Mr R had said that he did not want to finance his house purchase by 
taking a loan. 
As he used the pension to purchase the house he saved on rental payments. It would 
not make financial sense to have used a mortgage to do this. 
Mr R said that as he could purchase the property at a 62% discount it was a no 
brainer. 
He was happy to take the risk of the pension and he wanted to buy his council 
property. 
The death benefits were an ancillary need and not as important as the house 
purchase. 
Mr R opted back into his employers scheme. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portafina's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portafina 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Portafina calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC). This was required by the regulator 
on transfers after 1 October 2018 - and is a calculation of the funds that would need to be 
invested at the time of transfer on a so-called 'risk-free' basis, to provide the same income as 
the DB scheme at normal retirement age. It said this was £263,970 which was £158,919 
more than the transfer value. 
Petrofina also calculated how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 54 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 67. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Rs benefits at his retirement age was 10%. Its not clear if this was on the basis 
that Mr R was taking tax-free cash or not. The critical yield fell to 8.3% when the transfer 
value was increased to £122,266.89. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr R giving 
up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 8.3%, 
I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Portafina has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr R wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Portafinas models 
show that if Mr R lived to 95, and the fund grew at 5.8%, then it would run out at this age. So 
Mr R could run into problems if he lived a long time or investment returns were much lower 
than this. And bearing in mind Mr Rs lower attitude to risk he would probably expect returns 
below 5.8%, and so the funds lasting to his age of 95 seems optimistic. 
Also, as Portafina will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
So, as a starting point here, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Portafina has said in this case. Portafina thinks there are other considerations which mean 
the transfer was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. It has said that the benefit 
to Mr R of purchasing his council house outweighed the pension income he was giving up. 
Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr R wanted to take his pension flexibly in order to purchase his property and the decision 
was closely linked to the financial viability of the transfer. Portafina essentially thinks that 
Mr Rs ability to purchase his property at a discount made the transfer viable. 
Portafina does not seem to have established what Mr Rs needs in retirement were. I dont 
think it properly looked at what Mr R wanted as income, or what he thought his expenditure 
would be, in his retirement. It did ask some very brief questions about what expenditure he had that may continue into his retirement, but no more than this. It didnt compare this with 
his expected retirement income at all. I cant see how it could effectively have advised Mr R 
on his retirement when this was the case. And this is what it really should have been 
concentrating on when giving DB transfer advice. One of the main considerations should 
have been how the transfer would affect Mr Rs retirement planning. And it was a serios 
failing of Portafinas that it didnt do this. 
Portatafina advised Mr R on the basis that he wanted to purchase his house and he should 
use his DB scheme funds to do this. Clearly Mr R did want to do this, and its also clear why. 
But his pension was there to fund his retirement and shouldnt have been the default choice 
for funding, as it seems to have been here. 
Ive looked at the financial viability of this above, but Portafina has said that the transfer was 
in his best interests due to the discounted price which he could purchase his house. 
Essentially this was because the house was valued at £110,000 and Mr R could purchase it 
for £50,000. And he would also not have to pay rent, which was £400 a month, going 
forward.
But this doesnt tell the whole story. On the one hand Mr R would gain the estimated 
£60,000 increase in the house value and Portafina said he would save rental income of 
£57,000 (to his retirement). So there are gains here. But Portafina also estimated that Mr R 
would need a fund of £263,970, which was £158,919 more than the transfer value, to 
replicate the benefits he was giving up. And so the cost to him, even with house price 
valuations and the rent estimates was still greater than the benefits he was giving up. Of 
course, these are all estimates but I think its reasonable to say that they demonstrate that 
using the DB transfer in this way didnt make financial sense. 
The usual way to purchase a house is to borrow. I can see this was discussed with Mr R and 
he didnt want to do this. Of course, the DB transfer would have seemed like a far easier way 
to get what he wanted. And he would no longer have to pay rent or take out a mortgage. So, 
this isnt surprising. 
But I think Portafina should have fully considered, and looked into how, Mr R could fund the 
house purchase another way because of the overall cost to him. It doesnt seem to have 
investigated this in any detail at all. This is dealt with very briefly in the calls Ive listened to 
and the representative simply accepts when Mr R says he doesnt want to go down this 
route, rather than explaining that this may be a good way to fund the house purchase.
On the face of it, Mr R did have some time until retirement, the house price was modest and 
he did already have some credit. So, it looks likely it would have been possible for him to 
borrow. And it could have been considered, for example, whether Mr R could have borrowed 
in an interest only basis and used the tax-free cash to repay this at the schemes normal 
retirement date. Portafina should have fully explored this, or referred him to an adviser that 
could. I think if Portafina had done this its likely that Mr R would have been able to fund the 
house purchase another way. 
Ive listened to the calls that Portafina has provided. Mr R and Portafina spoke about his 
circumstances, and the house purchase, and the guaranteed pension he was giving up. But 
it seems unclear to me that Mr R fully understood what he was entering into. He was aware 
that he was giving up a guaranteed pension, but he seems to be under the impression that 
he would replace this by re-joining the scheme, which isnt the case. 
And I think that he didnt understand the value of what he was giving up. The advantages are 
clear to him, but the discussion concentrated on the gains from the house purchase, I cant 
see the amounts calculated as part of the TVC were ever discussed. Portafina made no attempt to inform him about this in the calls. I dont think it acted fairly here, and Im not 
persuaded that Mr R would have proceeded if it had done this. 
Overall, I dont think Mr R required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also 
cant see that Mr R had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. This 
doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
Mr Rs DB scheme was projected to provide an annual pension of £9,242 from the age of 67, 
or a reduced pension of £6,041 if he took tax-free cash of £40,274. He would also have his 
state pension on top of this. 
I dont know exactly what Mr Rs needs would be in retirement. But I still think he could have 
best met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme until the state pension 
became payable. I dont think the transfer was suitable due to Mr Rs want for flexibility and 
the associated house purchase. 
Death benefits
It was recorded that Mr R wanted to improve on the death benefits he could provide to his 
partner. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portafina explored to what extent 
Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Its not clear if the DB scheme would have provided any death benefits, given that he wasnt 
married to his current partner. But in any event, Portafina should not have encouraged Mr R 
to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Portafina shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Rs need for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr R was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr R  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.The funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mr R should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. I note that Mr R was 
encouraged to re-join this going forward and I understand that he did. 
Suitability of investments
Portafina recommended that Mr R invest in two risk bearing funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr R, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr R should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential to easily purchase his property at a 
discount would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Portafina wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to purchase his property, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Portafina shouldve advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Portafina's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portafinas advice. I say this because Mr R was 
an inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Rs retirement provision. So, if Portafina had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs want to purchase his property was so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Portafina 
had looked into how Mr R could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Portafina should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice to transfer the DB scheme and 
the AVC. I consider Mr R would have most likely remained in the occupational pension 
scheme if suitable advice had been given. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Portafina should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Portafinas offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Portafina may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portafina Investment 
Management Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina Investment Management Limited pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portafina Investment 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman