The complaint  
In summary, Mr F complains that Covea Insurance Plc his car insurance provider, disposed  
of his car after it was stolen and recovered.  
What happened  
In December 2021 Covea  wrote to Mr F explaining that it was declining his insurance claim.  
In January 2022, Mr F complained about Coveas decision.  
In February 2022 Mr F spoke to one of Coveas representatives. They explained why the  
complaint had been declined and provided de tails of the salvage agent that had Mr Fs car.  
The conversation was followed up in writing and sent by e -mail to Mr F. Coveas claims  
settlement team also wrote to Mr F the same day, and explained that his car would be  
disposed of within seven days of tha t letter, if he didnt contact it about not disposing of it.  
Mr F complained initially about Coveas refusal to pay his car insurance claim. That  
complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they didnt think  
Covea had unfairly  declined the claim.  
When Mr F found out that his car had been disposed of, he brought a new complaint to  
Covea via our service. When it responded to the complaint in August 2022, Covea explained  
that it had written to Mr F explaining that he needed to contact it within seven days of its  
letter, or his car would be disposed of. It believed from the communications he had with it,  
that Mr F would have been aware he needed to contact Covea or the salvage agent to  
arrange collection of the vehicle. Covea sai d it would be issuing the salvage payment  
received for the vehicle to Mr F.  
Our investigator then wrote to Covea explaining why she considered the complaint should be  
upheld. In summary, she didnt think Covea had communicated clearly in the outcome call  
with Mr F, or in its final response from February 2022, that the car needed to be collected  
within seven days. And she believed that Covea hadnt explained that the car was a write off  
and couldnt be collected by him or repaired. In addition to the salvag e value that Covea had  
agreed to pay, she said it should pay £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience Mr F  
had experienced.  
Covea disagreed. It believed the correct correspondence had been sent to Mr F. It received  
no further correspondence from him, and the vehicle was salvaged. The investigator  
responded and made the point that there was no reference in the call or e -mail that the  
vehicle needed to be collected in seven days.  
Covea wrote to the investigator and said that Mr F was offered the sa lvage fee on a number  
of occasions once the complaint was made. As it didnt have the fee back, it didnt agree he  
had been without the funds for nine months. And as the vehicle was reclassified as a  
category B write off, Mr F wouldnt have been able to us e the car in any case.  
DRN-3845250The investigator then asked for more information from Covea. In its response, it clarified that  
the salvage value of the vehicle hadnt been offered by its claims department as it originally  
said and hadnt been offered until it res ponded to the complaint.  
 
The investigator wrote to Covea again. She explained why she considered £500  
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr F had suffered, to still be appropriate.  
And she said that interest should be paid on the salvage value at the rate of 8% simple from  
the time it received the funds to when it was refunded.  
 
Covea didnt agree with what the investigator said, so the case has been passed to me to  
review.  
 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2022, expl aining why I was upholding Mr Fs  
complaint in part. In response Covea said it would pay the scrap value of the vehicle and the  
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. It also said that it would be fair to  
pay the interest until the time Mr  F was offered the salvage value of the vehicle. Mr F hadnt  
called to accept the salvage value after the offer was made, and had he done so the  
payment would have been raised.  
 
Mr F didnt agree with my decision. He explained to our investigator why he di dnt agree with  
the £250 compensation I had said Covea should pay for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to him.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumsta nces of this complaint.  
 
Ive thought carefully as well about the responses to my provisional decision from Covea and  
Mr F. And I want to assure Mr F that I have listened to the calls he had with the investigator  
and have taken into account what he told he r about why he disagreed with my provisional  
decision.  
 
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld in part. Ill  
explain why.  
 
My role is to review a case afresh. And that means I may reach a different conclusion to that  
reached by an investigator. And that is what has happened in this case. Im not bound by  
what an investigator has decided. Ultimately it is up to me to review a case and decide what  
I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a case.  
 
Before I set out my findings, I want to make it clear that I have only considered the complaint  
I have summarised above, in relation to the disposal of Mr Fs damaged car. The rejection of  
his insurance claim doesnt form part of my considerat ions and has been addressed by our  
service in a separate complaint.  
 
There has been much correspondence between the investigator and Covea as to how it  
communicated to Mr F that his car would be disposed of, particularly in regard to the seven - 
day respons e deadline that it set. Im satisfied from listening to the call Mr F had with 
Coveas representative in February 2022, that it was made clear to him that he would need  
to contact Covea or its salvage agent if he wanted to keep the vehicle. He took down de tails 
of the number to call during the call, and what was discussed was followed up in writing.  
In addition, Coveas claims settlement team also wrote to Mr F the same day and explained  
that his vehicle would be disposed of within seven days of that letter . Mr F has said in his  
communications with our service that he has had problems with his post. But it looks to me  that he has received post from our service. The letter from Covea was correctly addressed.  
And in one of the conversations Mr F had with Covea , I have the impression that he did  
receive the letter from it. So, on balance I think its more likely than not that he did receive  
the letter from Covea telling him he had seven days to contact it.  
 
However, I think the more pertinent issue is the inform ation conveyed to Mr F in Coveas  
communications with him. In essence, I think it gave him the impression he would be able to  
have the car if he wanted it. And that appears to be because of how the car was assessed  
from a salvage perspective. It seems initially the car was assessed as a category N. This  
would mean that the car was repairable. So, in that condition it would have been available to  
Mr F to repair and use.  
 
But in March 2022 Coveas engineers subsequently agreed to reassess the damage as  
salvage category B, due to problems identified with the engine. This recategorization meant  
that the car couldnt be repaired and would only be able to be used for parts. As a result,  
Mr F wouldnt have been able to benefit from keeping the car, and its valu e would only have  
been as scrap.  
 
Im satisfied therefore that Mr F was given an incorrect expectation that he would be able to  
have the car. So, although Covea authorised its disposal with its salvage agent, this wouldnt  
have made any difference to Mr F because, as Ive explained  he wouldnt have been able  
to get the car repaired even if he had wanted to.  
 
Its only when Mr F complained about the disposal of the car, that Covea offered to pay him  
the scrap fee that it received. In its correspondence wit h our investigator its said the offer  
stood, but it didnt think it needed to pay any compensation. I disagree. In my opinion the  
damaged car remained Mr Fs property. So, as Covea hadnt paid out on the claim, I think he  
was entitled to the scrap value o f the car. As a result, I think it should have made that offer  
sooner than it did.  
 
In addition to the offer of the scrap value fee, our investigator said that Covea should pay Mr  
F £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. Ive thought very  carefully about  
what Mr F has said about the impact on him and his family about not having a car for some  
time.  
 
I think Mr F has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Coveas mistake. I say  
that because I dont think Covea has communicated with him fairly or reasonably regarding  
the disposal of his car and the scrap value fee it received. I think it should have told Mr F  
what it had done in disposing of the car and offered the scrap value fee  sooner than it did.  
And I think the lack of information in this regard has had an impact on Mr F, as he has in my  
opinion been unsure what the situation with his car was. And I also think this was  
predominantly down to the misinformation provided by Covea . As a result, Im satisfied its  
likely to have affected his plans to purchase a replacement car.  
 
But I dont think Coveas shortcomings in this regard have been the primary issue as to why  
Mr F has been without a car since the incident at the end of las t year. Im satisfied that its  
more likely than not the primary reason he is without a car still, is not because Covea didnt  
offer to pay him the scrap value fee sooner than it did, but because his insurance claim was 
rejected. I think its likely that n ot having received a monetary amount reflective of the market  
value of the car, has caused him financial difficulties in buying a new car. But the impact of  
that isnt relevant to this complaint. As a result, I think £500 is not an appropriate amount to  
compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience caused by Coveas shortcomings in  
this case.  
 
Covea doesnt think that 8% simple interest should be paid on the salvage payment until the  date of payment to Mr F. It thinks that it should only be paid until the date it offered to pay  
the salvage value to Mr F. I dont agree. When Covea made the offer to Mr F it didnt offer  
any compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. I think from  
Mr Fs perspective, his complaint hadnt been resolv ed to his satisfaction. And it has only  
been as a result of the investigation and assessment by our service that an award of  
compensation for distress and inconvenience has been made. So, I dont think it was  
unreasonable in the particular circumstances of  this case for Mr F to wait until his complaint  
had been assesses by our service, before accepting the offer in respect of the salvage  
value.  
 
Assessing a compensation figure for distress and inconvenience isnt an exact science. But  
given what Ive said above, I think a figure of £250 is a more appropriate figure to  
compensate Mr F for the impact on him of Coveas shortcomings in this case.  
 
Putting things right  
 
Covea should pay Mr F the scrap value fee it received for his car, together with simple  
interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date it agreed a scrap value fee with its agent, to  
the date of payment to Mr F.  
 
In addition, Covea should pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld in part. If Mr F  
accepts my decision, Covea Insurance Plc, should pay Mr F compensation as Ive set out in  
the Putting things right section above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Servic e, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or  
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.  
 
Simon Dibble  
Ombudsman  