DRN-3972481
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money they lost as the 
result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr and Mrs Y brought their complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer
solely to Mr and Mrs Y in this decision.
What happened
On 13 March 2019 Mr Y paid £9,350 for a motorbike advertised on a large online 
marketplace. He had negotiated a small discounted with the seller and was satisfied the 
price was competitive. He had been sent photographs of the bike which he says matched his 
expectations. The seller arranged for a courier to deliver the bike. 
Mr Y received an invoice for the purchase via email and he recalls he sent the money from a 
Santander branch via a reputable payment service provider. When the bike did not arrive as 
expected and he saw the advert had disappeared, he realised he had been scammed and 
reported this to Santander. This was on 19 March 2019. It contacted the beneficiary bank 
within one hour but only £15.83 remained. This was returned to Mr and Mrs Ys account by 
25 March 2019. 
Mr Y says he had been confident the sale was genuine as he understood the marketplace 
vetted its sellers and he had received a call he believed to be from a payment service 
provider noting the secure account number of the seller. Mr and Mrs Y want the payment to 
be refunded, £500 compensation and for Santander to cover any related legal costs.
Santander said the correct level of security was used to complete this transaction, it also 
noted the payment was a faster payment sent via its mobile banking service, and not from a 
branch as Mr Y recalls.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. He said the payment was unusual 
and so should have triggered further checks. But he did not feel this would have prevented 
the scam based on the background of the transaction and the due diligence Mr Y had done.
He was satisfied the bank had done all it should to try to recover the money after Mr Y 
reported the scam.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr and Mrs Y asked for an ombudsmans review. They said 
the nature of the payment should have triggered additional checks and the bank ought to 
have been able to prevent the loss with an effective intervention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr Y made and authorised the payment. Mr Y understood why he 
was making the payment and who he was sending the money to. At the stage he was 
making the payment, he believed he was buying a motorbike. I dont dispute Mr Y was 
scammed and he wasnt making the payment for the reason he thought he was, but I remain 
satisfied the transaction was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Ys instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr Y is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors to take into
account.
I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. To note, as the payment 
pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code its principles do not apply in 
this case.
So, overall, I think that Santander should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think Santander ought to be held liable for the transaction. Ill explain why.
I think the nature of the transaction (the value and the fact it was to a new payee) ought to 
have triggered further checks by the bank. However, I wont comment further on this as I 
dont think probing from Santander would have prevented the scam.
I say this because Mr Y had carried out a level of due diligence that had satisfied him the 
sale was genuine. He had also received a payment invoice for the purchase. It seems he 
was pleased with the price, but did not consider it to be a red flag - rather his intensive 
research had shown that this was down to the geographical location of the seller and the 
typical market value of the bike in that region. He had exchanged a number of messages 
with the seller and they had a built a friendly rapport whilst arranging delivery. He had 
arranged for the logbook to be delivered along with the bike. So I think he had thought very 
carefully about the transaction and was wholly satisfied it was genuine. 
I dont therefore think that Santander would have broken the spell of the scam had it 
intervened and asked what we would find to be a proportionate level of questions. Mr Y says 
that the member of the branch staff he spoke to expressed concerns about the transfer 
stating it could be a scam. But the banks records show the payment was made online, not in 
a branch. In addition, I find Mr Ys point to be somewhat contradictory as he is saying he 
recalls that Santander raised that the payment could be a scam  yet he was confident 
enough to go ahead. To me this reinforces my finding that had Santander intervened it would 
not have broken the spell of the scam.
I have also considered if Santander did enough to try to recover Mr and Mrs Ys money once 
Mr Y reported the scam. I can see it contracted the beneficiary bank within an hour of receiving his fraud claim. Unfortunately only £15.83 remined in the account so it was unable 
to recover the majority of the payment. But Santander acted as we would expect in its 
attempt to recover Mr and Mrs Ys funds.
It follows I am not instructing Santander to refund any money to Mr and Mrs Y. This is a 
difficult decision to make, Im sorry Mr and Mrs Y have lost a considerable amount of money 
and I can understand why they would like to be compensated for their loss. I do accept Mr Y 
has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether the bank, which 
had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For 
the reasons set out above I do not find Santander can be held liable in the circumstances of 
this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman