DRN-4178893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) have declined their claim for 
vandalism under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out home insurance with QIC. In February 2023 a wall at the front of their 
property was damaged by vandals. This was reported to police. The wall was damaged 
again the following day  and again reported to police. Mr H informed QIC and made a claim 
on the policy.
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage to the wall. He said that the wall was in a poor 
state due to its age and that a wall in good condition would not have been able to be 
damaged in the way that it was. QIC concluded that the cause of the damage was wear and 
tear and declined the claim. Mr H complained to QIC who reviewed its decision but didnt 
change its mind. It referred to the general exclusions section in the policy and said that it 
was correct to decline the claim for wear and tear, or gradual deterioration. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service. Mr H had the wall 
demolished and rebuilt at a cost of £1,620. He would like this sum refunded by QIC.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think QIC had acted fairly. She didnt 
think that QIC had done enough to say that the damage was due to wear and tear and not 
vandalism. She said that QIC should re-consider the claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy. QIC didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove there has been an insured 
peril  something thats covered under the policy. Mr H says that his wall was vandalised, 
and he reported it to police. QIC dont appear to dispute this. The policy includes cover for 
malicious damage or vandalism  and so Im satisfied that there is an insured peril. 
QIC rely on an exclusion in the policy to decline the claim and its for QIC to prove that the 
exclusion applies. Ive started by looking at the policy. I can see that it excludes any gradual 
or maintenance related loss or damage, including wear and tear and gradual deterioration - 
so I need to decide if QIC has acted fairly and reasonably when applying this exclusion.
QIC rely on their surveyors report. It says that a wall in a good state of repair would not be 
able to be affected by vandals. It says that the cement between the bricks was old and the 
bricks were loose. The report was reviewed by QICs in-house surveyor who said that the 
wall had previously been left in a poor state  although he accepted that some re-pointing 
had been done. He concluded that the wall had lost its integrity over the years and that a 
well maintained wall would not have been damaged by vandals.
Mr H disputes that the wall was in such a poor state. He says that he had the wall re-pointed 
on two occasions and that there were no loose bricks before the damage. 
Ive read the surveyors report and looked at the photos. I can see the damage that has been 
caused to the wall. The surveyor refers to the wall leaning over  although this isnt obvious 
from the photos and so I dont think its significant. He says that the bricks the vandals 
moved were loose  although Im not sure on what basis he says this as he only inspected 
the wall after the damage. I can see that some of the cement mortar looks old in parts, but I 
cant see that there are any other loose bricks apart from those that were removed by the 
vandals. The ones adjacent to the damage dont appear to be loose  and theres nothing in 
the report to say that they are. The report says that all the affected area is loose which I 
take to mean the area affected by the vandals.  
The field surveyor says that the bricks were lifted off by the vandals. However, we dont 
know how the damage was caused  what force was used or if the vandals had any tools or 
implements. Its unlikely that we will be able to find this out now  so I cant rule out that the 
vandals used force to remove the bricks. If this was the case, I think its possible for damage 
to have been caused to bricks that werent loose beforehand. 
On balance I dont think QIC has done enough to show that the exclusion applies, and that 
the damage was due to wear and tear rather than vandalism. I dont therefore think that it 
has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly.
I understand that Mr H has now had the wall re-built. I cant say whether or not QIC should 
cover the cost of this, but I think that QIC should now re-consider the claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC to re-consider the claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman