DRN-4433391
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Western Provident Association Limited declined a claim he made on a 
group private medical insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the guidance he was given 
during the sale of the policy.
What happened
Mr M wanted to set up a group medical insurance scheme to cover the employees in the 
company he works for. Ill refer to the company as Company A. Mr M brings a complaint in 
his own capacity as a member of the group scheme.
Mr M had prostate cancer and had his prostate removed in 2015. He says he continues to 
go to a specialist each year for peace of mind to complete a PSA test.
Company A was given the option of a moratorium policy or a fully medically underwritten 
policy. Before taking out the policy a representative from Company A got in touch with WPA 
to query whether Mr Ms previous diagnosis would be caught by the moratorium and was 
told it wouldnt be.
Mr M joined the scheme on 1 June 2021. As a member of the group scheme Mr M had to 
complete an application form. He had to tick a box to say that he understood he would be 
unable to claim for any condition which existed during the five years before the date he 
joined, unless he had a two-year clear period.
In May 2022 Mr M was diagnosed with metastatic prostate cancer and was granted full 
cover. However, WPA declined to cover further treatment because they said Mr Ms claim 
fell within the policy moratorium. They said hed had professional advice or monitoring in the 
five years before joining the scheme. In summary, they say this was because hed had 
annual PSA tests and sought advice about prostate cancer in the five years before joining 
the scheme.
Mr M complained to WPA but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, 
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that WPA had fairly applied the moratorium because Mr M had attended appointments for 
ongoing consultations and tests. Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He said that a PSA test wasnt treatment and he was given clear assurances by 
WPA that his regular PSA tests would not compromise his health cover. He also said WPAs
desire to secure the company health insurance policy led to them providing misleading and 
false information regarding the cover. So, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
decision.
I asked WPA whether theyd been able to locate any calls between Mr M and WPA. They 
said theyd done a search and they hadnt been able to locate any calls before the policy 
was taken out. They said theyd need exact dates, times and the name of the person who 
took the call to be able to carry out further searches.
I also asked WPA why they hadnt explored the information in an email from Company A in 
more detail but they said there was no reason to do so, based on the information they had 
about Mr Ms medical history. WPA confirmed theyd provided Company A with advice about 
the policy and highlighted that the definition of treatment included any form of medical care.
In July 2023 I issued my first provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint and award £1500 compensation. 
Mr M responded with details of a policy hed held before Company A took out the group 
policy which, he said, would have covered him in the circumstances. This policy was with an 
insurer Ill refer to as V. 
WPA didnt agree, in summary, that Mr M had given accurate information about his medical 
history. 
Having reviewed the further information and representations I issued a second provisional 
decision in October 2023. I said: 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision The relevant rules and industry guidelines 
say that WPA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive taken into account WPAs further comments, and the information provided by Mr 
M. Having done so Im still intending to uphold this complaint and direct WPA to put 
things right in a different way.
Mr M joined the scheme in June 2021 so the relevant period I need to consider is the 
five years prior to him joining the scheme. I dont agree that Mr M provided WPA with 
incorrect information (via Company A) when he said:
I can confirm that Mr M [redacted] had his prostate operation in January 2015 
and has been clear and discharged ever since. He goes to a specialist yearly 
on his own accord for his own peace of mind, his PSA has been less than 0.1 
for a number of years now. This is more than 6 years ago so I suppose it falls 
outside the moratorium anyway
WPAs position is that Mr M hadnt been discharged from his consultants care and 
that they didnt decline on the basis of peace of mind tests. 
Mr M had been cancer free since his operation and his PSA had been consistently 
undetectable. He had some urinary and other symptoms related to the surgery but I 
think the primary purpose of the reviews with his consultant were to check his PSA 
albeit he may have been given some general reassurance about some of his post-
operative urinary symptoms. I also bear in mind that Mr M was also being seen 
privately so I think this also partly explains why there is no specific discharge letter 
as Mr M chose to continue to have his PSA tests with the same consultant. So, I 
dont think its fair to conclude the information Mr M gave via Company A as 
inaccurate or untrue.
In any event, even if I accepted WPAs representations on this point, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this particular case.
I think it would have been reasonable for WPA to seek further clarification from 
Company A or Mr M on the circumstances surrounding his diagnosis and treatment 
particularly given that the treatment referred to was within a year of the relevant 
timeframe for the moratorium period. For example, it was open to them to clarify the 
nature of the appointments Mr M was having and obtain clearer information about his 
medical history, particularly bearing in mind they were relying on information from a 
third party which was very brief and scant on detail.
I also think that WPA ought reasonably to be aware that this is a common area in 
which consumers often have trouble as moratoriums are complex and its often easy 
to forget the nuances of their medical history with the passage of time. This is a core 
feature of the policy and one in which it can be difficult for consumers to navigate.
I think there was a missed opportunity in the email exchange between Company A 
and the appointed representative to get a proper understanding of Mr Ms 
circumstances before saying hed be covered. I bear in mind that WPAs appointed 
representative was advising Company A about the policy and, whilst Im not 
considering a mis-sale complaint, I think that there was a greater responsibility to 
engage with this information than in a non-advised sales process. So, I dont agree it 
was unreasonable in this case to expect the appointed representative to question 
elements of the information given in relation to an applicants medical history, 
especially when this was provided by Company A rather than Mr M himself and was 
so general.
I dont think it is central to the outcome whether cover was technically withdrawn, or 
the further claim benefit was denied by WPA. The result was the same as Mr M 
wasnt covered for his treatment. So, this point hasnt changed my thoughts about the 
overall outcome of this complaint.
WPA denied Mr Ms allegation that their desire to get Company As business led 
them to provide false and misleading information. This was set out in the background 
to the complaint because its one of Mr Ms complaint points. I have made no finding 
on this point because I dont think its central to the outcome of this complaint but its 
relevant background because its one of the things Mr M has raised in his complaint. 
Putting things right
The information provided before I made my provisional decision didnt indicate that 
Mr M was already covered by a private medical insurance policy. However, hes now 
demonstrated he had a policy with V which would have offered him cover had he 
stayed with them. The policy had been in force since 2012 and there were no 
exclusions applied to it. Mr M had received private treatment when he was diagnosed 
with cancer during the life of the policy.
Im now persuaded its most likely that Mr M has been caused further detriment by 
WPAs failure to explore his medical history further. I think that had they done so it 
would have highlighted issues with the moratorium period and identified that Mr M 
may have issues claiming on the policy. I think if Mr M had been aware that he may 
have been caught by the moratorium its unlikely hed have cancelled his policy with 
V. I think its most likely hed have stayed with V, knowing that he benefited from full 
cover. Im also persuaded that if Mr M had stayed with V its most likely that his 
treatment would have been covered. Ive looked at the full policy terms and policy 
certificate and, on balance, I think hed have been able to claim successfully.Taking into account all of the above Im no longer persuaded its fair and reasonable 
for WPA to decline the claim. I think Mr W has been caused a significant financial 
loss by their failure to explore his circumstances prior to joining the policy.
Hes funded his own treatment, whereas if hed stayed with V hed have most likely 
had the full benefit of private cover. I think Mr M is out of pocket as a result. So, I now 
think that WPA should reassess the claim without reference to the moratorium and in 
line with the remaining policy terms and limits. Mr M ought to be aware that he may 
need to provide further information about his treatment to WPA and evidence of the 
expenses he incurred.
I also remain of the view that WPA should pay Mr M £1500 compensation for the 
associated loss of expectations and the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
having the cover he expected at a very difficult and challenging time.
I cant predetermine any future claim Mr M may need to make in relation to his 
prostate cancer but Id expect WPA to bear in mind my findings in relation to this 
complaint. And Mr M would also be entitled to make a further complaint if hes 
unhappy with the settlement of this claim or any future claim decision.
So, Im intending to direct WPA to put things right by:
Reassessing the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and without 
applying the moratorium period to the claim.
Paying Mr M £1500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the impact of not having the cover he expected.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. WPA made further submissions. In summary they 
said: 
Mr M said hed been discharged  that wasnt true
They had no reason to question the accuracy of the information provided  it 
was untrue and they shouldnt be held responsible for the consequences 
To waive the application of underwriting based on an insured person 
providing inaccurate information seriously prejudices other customers 
They had searched extensively for calls between Mr M and WPA but havent 
been able to locate them. 
So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further representations by WPA this hasnt changed my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint.
I havent found their further representations persuasive in the specific circumstances of this 
case. I remain persuaded that there are credible reasons for the information Mr M gave to WPA, 
via the appointed representative and Company A prior to the policy being taken out. But, in 
any event, I think its still fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision Mr M was providing information to WPA via 
Company A and the appointed representative. The information given by Company A was 
high level and fairly vague. I think there was information provided which ought to have 
prompted WPA to take further action before responding to the query and offering cover. I 
particularly bear in mind that this information wasnt coming from Mr M directly, it was 
coming from a third party who was summarising a complex health issue in a just a few lines. 
I think there were a number of indications that the situation was more complex. Company A 
told WPA:
I can confirm that Mr M [redacted] had his prostate operation in January 2015 and 
has been clear and discharged ever since. He goes to a specialist yearly on his own 
accord for his own peace of mind, his PSA has been less than 0.1 for a number of 
years now. This is more than 6 years ago so I suppose it falls outside the moratorium 
anyway
Company A didnt, for example, outline what happened in the specialists appointments or 
what they meant by clear or discharged. I remain of the view that there was an opportunity 
to explore these points in more detail with some straightforward follow up questions. 
There were a number of reasons Mr M could have continued to see the specialist and I dont 
think its fair and reasonable for WPA to simply to rely on the statement that hed been 
discharged in isolation. This statement was made by a third party who was unlikely to have 
a detailed understanding of the nuances of Mr Ms health condition or what the ongoing 
specialist appointments entailed. Furthermore, the use of the word discharged alongside 
the statement that he goes to a specialist yearly was contradictory in itself. And I think its 
also important to note that the events referred to were in close proximity to the relevant 
moratorium period. So, I think WPA ought to have done more to explore Mr Ms 
circumstances before giving reassurance that hed not be caught by the moratorium. 
This was a key aspect of cover which was likely to be very important to Mr M. Im not 
persuaded by WPAs representations that they fairly relied on the statement that Mr M had 
been discharged. I think the wider context of the statement, and that it was provided by a 
third party, is important too. I remain of the view that Mr M wasnt treated fairly in all the 
circumstances. A few simple questions of clarification would have, in my view, most likely 
flushed out some important information about Mr Ms circumstances. 
Ive considered what WPA has said about the impact on other customers. However, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think WPA has treated Mr M fairly. My decision focuses on the 
specific facts of this case. 
WPA has said that its searched extensively for calls Mr M says that he made but hasnt 
been able to locate them. I remain satisfied I have enough information to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome based on the available evidence. So, that doesnt change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my two provisional decisions, Im upholding 
Mr Ms complaint as I think its fair and reasonable to do so. Putting things right
WPA need to put things right by:
Reassessing the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and without applying 
the moratorium period to the claim.
Paying Mr M £1500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
impact of not having the cover he expected.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Western Provident Association Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman