DRN-1741830
 
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) refused to repair her 
washing machine under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs Z had a home emergency policy with Great Lakes which included cover for named 
appliances. Her washing machine was included in the cover.
Mrs Z reported a fault and Great Lakes sent an engineer to investigate. The engineer said it 
could be repaired and ordered the parts. He told Mrs Z not to use the machine.
The engineer returned with the parts but left without repairing the machine. He reported to 
Great Lakes that he couldnt repair the machine because it had been used, causing further 
damage. He believed the machine was beyond economical repair (BER). So, although Great 
Lakes had originally agreed to cover the repairs, it then declined the claim because Mrs Z 
hadnt followed advice. 
Mrs Z complained to Great Lakes. She said she hadnt used the machine, and the towels in 
the drum were only there because she threw them in out of habit. She pointed out that the 
nuts and bolts removed by the engineer were also in the drum. Great Lakes still declined her 
claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that in the absence of an expert 
opinion supporting Mrs Z, she felt it was fair to accept Great Lakes expert opinion. Our 
investigator explained that it was unlikely that the engineer wouldve ordered parts to repair 
the machine if he thought it was already BER. His report said that the repairs could be 
completed and made no reference to the damage which was apparent on his return visit.
Mrs Z didnt agree. She maintains that she didnt use the machine and independent 
engineers agree with her.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs Z will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The facts of the case are not disputed. The issue of complaint is the engineers opinion that 
Mrs Z used her washing machine after being told not to, and Great Lakes subsequent 
decision to decline her claim. So it remains for me to decide whether it was reasonable for 
Great Lakes to rely on the engineers report and decline the claim. 
Mrs Z says she didnt use her machine. She explained that wet towels were in the drum 
because she used them to clean up water which had started to smell, and then threw them 
into the machine out of habit. This sounds like a reasonable explanation for the towels being 
in the machine. But it wasnt the presence of the towels which caused Great Lakes to think 
she had used the machine and decline her claim.
If Great Lakes had relied on this detail to decline the claim, I would likely have reached a 
different decision, especially as Mrs Z said the nuts and bolts were still in the drum. But it 
declined the claim after relying on the engineers report stating that further damage had been 
caused between his first visit and second visit. And in his opinion the machine mustve been 
used.
I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the engineers expert opinion. Thats 
because its more likely than not that he wouldve identified that the machine was BER on 
that first visit if it was already faulty to that extent. And I think its unlikely he wouldve gone 
on to order parts for a repair if it was already BER on his first visit. So, Im satisfied that it 
was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the expert opinion when deciding to decline Mrs Zs claim.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy to see whether its clear that a claim will be declined if 
advice isnt followed while waiting for a repair. I dont think it is. However, the general tone of 
the policy makes it clear that policy holders are expected to look after their appliances and 
that cover isnt provided where operating instructions arent followed. As Ive accepted the 
engineers report that the machine was used, I think its fair to accept that operating 
instructions  not to use the machine - werent followed. Mrs Z acknowledges that the 
engineer told her not to use the machine.
Under the terms of the policy, Great Lakes wouldve covered the cost of repair if the washing 
machine was in the same position as it was when first inspected. But something has caused 
further damage to it since Great Lakes agreed to repair the machine so I dont think it would 
be fair to ask it to accept the claim now. I think its reasonable that Great Lakes considered 
the damage to be the result of incorrect operation of the machine and, therefore, not covered 
under the policy.
I can understand that Mrs Z is disappointed that her washing machine wont be fixed. And I 
am truly sorry that she feels the decisions thatve been made suggest she is lying. 
Unfortunately, in circumstances such as these, there is no way of being completely sure 
what happened, so I must rely on the evidence and expert opinion available. Mrs Z says 
several other engineers have said the drum just needs replacing and that Great Lakes 
engineer was wrong. However, there is no documented evidence of that. So for the reasons 
I have discussed, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim based on the only 
available expert opinion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or reject my 
decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman