DRN-3206582
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect her from losing 
money to a scam.
What happened
On 11 November 2016 Mrs F made a payment of £1,820 from her Barclays account for 
travel tickets. Mrs F subsequently came to realise she had been scammed. She reported the 
matter to Barclays in February 2017. Barclays wasnt able to recover the money, and it didnt 
otherwise offer to reimburse Mrs F. Mrs F remained unhappy and so referred her complaint 
about Barclays to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for essentially the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
At the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer authorised it to 
make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. There is a balance to be struck: banks 
had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Mrs Fs Barclays account. I cant reasonably say here 
that Barclays unreasonably failed to intervene before executing Mrs Fs instructions to send 
the payment, or that it would be reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for Mrs Fs loss. As 
Ive said, there is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to 
fraud and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction. And here I cant see that Mrs Fs payment of £1,820 reasonably ought to 
have appeared sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to Barclays such that it 
ought to have intervened before it executed Mrs Fs instruction to send the payment. So I 
dont think it would be fair to say Barclays ought to have prevented Miss F falling victim to 
this scam. 
In terms of recovery, I understand Mrs F reported the scam to Barclays in February 2017. I 
am satisfied from the information I have seen that Mrs Fs payment had already, by then, 
been removed from the beneficiary account. So I think, no matter how quickly Barclays acted 
to try to recover the funds from the beneficiary account on being told by Mrs F in February 
2017 about the scam, that Barclays would have remained unable to recover the funds.
This means that I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays. I accept Mrs F was the victim 
of a scam, and Im really sorry Mrs F lost this money and about the impact shes explained 
this has had on her  caused by the callous and cruel acts of the scammer(s). However, this 
doesnt automatically entitle Mrs F to a refund from Barclays  it would only be fair for me to 
tell Barclays to reimburse Mrs F if I thought it either caused the loss or hindered recovery. 
And as I dont think that it did, I cant fairly tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman