DRN-3691159
The complaint
Mr M complains that Azur Underwriting Limited (Azur) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under his home insurance policy.
In this case Mr M has been represented by an insurance broker (Company A). Any reference 
to Mr M or Azur includes respective agents or representatives unless specified. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In June 2020 Mr M took out an Azur home insurance policy through Company A.
In November 2020, whilst Mr M was away from his home, a visiting family member 
discovered the property had been burgled. 
Azur considered the claim and declined it, saying it was a requirement of the policy 
that a burglar alarm was fitted  but this wasnt the case despite Mr M stating one 
was in place within the statement of fact to Company A and Azur. So, it said Mr M 
had made a misrepresentation. 
Azur said if it had known the property had no alarm it wouldve still insured the 
property but required a bells only alarm condition. This would have specified the 
Insured was required to install a bells only alarm within 30 days from inception, or 
any losses caused by theft would be excluded from cover. And it imposed this 
condition retrospectively from the policys inception  meaning the claim theft claim 
was not covered. 
Company A initially said the misrepresentation was made as a result of a mistake on 
behalf of its staff. But it since discovered a call between its agents and Mr M in which 
it asked him if the property has just a bells only alarm which Mr M confirmed 
incorrectly stated it did.
Mr M said There has never been an alarm and I am embarrassed at my error in 
saying otherwise when speaking to [Company A] last June. It was an entirely 
innocent mistake on my part and certainly unintentional. He also described the 
mistake as innocent and careless, explaining the emotional and financial impact of 
the decline. 
Company A stated it didnt believe the presence of a bells only, non-maintained 
alarm was critical to the accepted risk as Azur had chosen to not require the alarm 
was maintained or activated when the property was unoccupied. It said if this was 
critical, it shouldve required this as a condition of the insurance or required it to be 
maintained on an annual basis. And it said it was illogical for an insurer to require an 
alarm system to be installed, but not that it should be activated or maintained. It also 
stated it was purely speculative for Azur to say the alarm wouldve prevented the 
burglary. And so, it would be unfair to rely on this term.
Company A also provided a quote for the same underwriter with a different level of 
cover, saying that quote didnt require an alarm system. And it said Azur had 
inaccurately stated Mr M had left the property unoccupied for extended periods.
Azur responded, stating the alarm condition was required because of the occupancy 
levels at Mr Ms address  he has a second home which would leave the property in 
question unoccupied. It also said the sums insured, and location of the address 
(within a built-up area) were factors in determining this. It also said Company As 
alternative quote was for a different policy and not like-for-like. 
Azur also said from the available information and the quantity of items stolen, it 
appeared the thieves were present in the address for a significant period of time and 
a large number of items taken (such as TVs which would have had to have been 
carried out). So, it said if an alarm been installed at the property it believed it was 
highly likely the loss would have been significantly mitigated.
Our of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Azur wouldve required an alarm to be fitted within 30 days of the policy 
starting had it known no alarm was already fitted. The Investigator also said the 
quote provided wasnt like-for-like so didnt change anything.
Company A disagreed, reiterating Mr M had made the misrepresentation himself, and 
its belief Azur wouldve accepted the risk and its arguments were inconsistent.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances Ive taken into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Ive carefully read and taken all of the submissions provided into account when 
deciding this complaint, but Ill only comment on the points that I think are relevant to 
reaching a fair outcome to this dispute.
This complaint is about Azur and whether it acted fairly and reasonably when it 
amended the cover retrospectively in light of the alleged misrepresentation that Mr M 
made and declined the claim.
Azur says Mr M misrepresented his circumstances when he took out his policy in 
June 2020. 
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). It places a duty on the consumer, in this 
case Mr M, to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
If Mr M met this duty, Azur is unable to take any action under CIDRA. But, if he didnt 
meet the duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Azur.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy 
if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about  which wouldve meant the 
insurer either wouldnt have entered into the contract at all, or wouldve done so on 
different terms. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer.Put simply, Azur wanted to know what type of alarm, if any, Mr M had in place. And 
through Company A, he said he had a bells only alarm. Mr M has been clear this was 
a mistake on his part, so it seems to me he didnt take reasonable care when 
answering the question and made a misrepresentation.
So, Ive thought about whether this misrepresentation wouldve changed Azurs 
position to insure Mr M. Azur says if it had known the property was without any alarm 
it wouldve amended the policy terms to include a bells alarm condition endorsement  
which wouldve required Mr M to have an alarm fitted within 30 days, and if he hadnt 
have met this condition it wouldve declined any claims for loss or damage caused by 
theft or attempted theft from the property.
Azur has shared underwriting guidance with this Service and Mr M, which it says 
shows that this bells alarm endorsement wouldve been added due to the occupancy 
of the home (Mr M had a weekend property elsewhere), value of contents in the 
home (over £140,000), items, and location of the property. Having read the material 
its shared and the comments from Azur, Im persuaded Azur wouldve still insured Mr 
M but on these amended terms as it has said.
Mr M provided a quote which it said shows Azur wouldnt require this alarm to be 
fitted. But this was for a separate policy that isnt like-for-like. So, this doesnt change 
my mind.
So, given Im satisfied Azur fairly amended the terms retrospectively, Ive thought 
about whether it has fairly applied the endorsement terms when declining this claim. 
In doing so, I will take into account whether the breach of the condition had some 
impact on the claim.
Mr M and Company A have suggested Azurs comments were speculative and that 
an alarm may not have impacted the burglary. 
Azur said the burglars had considerable time in the property due to the lack of an 
alarm. And I think this commentary is reasonable, and in turn it follows I think its fair 
for Azur to decline the claim on the breach of the condition. 
Company A has stated that Azurs amendment to the terms that required an alarm to 
be in regular use is significant, as it says if Azur drew this to its attention it couldve 
alerted Mr M to this requirement prior to the loss. However, even if I agreed Azur 
failed to alert Mr M of this change  which I dont, as it appears the relevant 
documentation was sent to him or his agents  Im not persuaded by this argument 
as Mr M had already made the misrepresentation and had opportunities to correct 
this after the policy was taken out.
As a result of the above, Im satisfied Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation, and 
that Azur wouldve put the alarm condition endorsement in place at the inception of 
the policy had it been given the full circumstances. It follows that Mr M never met this 
endorsement, and that Im persuaded that Azur has fairly declined this claim as the 
alarm was not installed within 30 days of inception.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman