DRN-4190935
The complaint
Mr M complains a Society of Lloyds (SoL) underwriter unfairly stopped providing him 
subsidence insurance.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr M made a subsidence claim against his home insurance policy. It was 
provided by a SoL underwriter  Ill call it U. At renewal of his policy, in May 2020, U would 
only agree to extend the cover for three months whilst it considered the open subsidence 
claim. Once that expired it offered a renewal for 12 months  but with a £10,000 subsidence 
excess. But when that policy expired, in August 2021, U didnt offer any renewal of cover to 
Mr M. Instead his broker found alternative home insurance with a different provider  but 
without subsidence cover. 
In July 2022 Mr M complained to U that he had been disadvantaged by its decision not to 
offer him cover. He couldnt find insurance that included subsidence cover. In response it 
said it had made a business decision to no longer offer cover to the type of property Mr M 
wished to insure. It said it wasnt obliged to offer him insurance. U felt it had given him 
sufficient time to find alternative cover.  
In August 2022 Mr M took out insurance with another different provider, but again without 
subsidence cover. 
Mr M didnt accept Us response to his complaint, so he referred it to SoL. In response it said 
prior to the expiry of his policy, in August 2021, U had already made a commercial decision 
to no longer provide the policy Mr M held. It said that meant he couldnt be offered cover. 
SoL explained this applied to all policyholders that held that type of policy  not just him. 
SoL said commercial decisions about which cover to provide are made by its individual 
underwriters. It felt U had allowed Mr Ms broker adequate time for it to find him alternative 
cover. So it didnt challenge Us stance. However, it did recommend it pay Mr M £50 
compensation for failing to provide a clear explanation in its July 2022 response.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied as he was still unable find subsidence cover. To resolve his complaint 
he would like to be provided with subsidence cover for his property. 
In May 2023 our Investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said it was fair to follow the 
principles of Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on continuation of cover following 
a subsidence claim. He felt U hadnt shown it couldnt make an exception for Mr M by 
providing continuing cover. Neither was he satisfied it had taken reasonable steps, following 
the withdrawal from the market, to put alternative arrangements in place for Mr M. 
So he recommended SoL offer Mr M continuous home insurance, including subsidence 
cover, on reasonable terms from the date it was removed. It didnt accept that outcome, so 
the complaint was passed to me. SoL said it doesnt accept ABI guidance requires insurers 
withdrawing from providing home insurance to ensure continued subsidence cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence SoL and Mr M provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
The language used by U (and SoL) to explain its decision not to provide continued cover, to 
this service and Mr M, hasnt been very clear. But it seems from recent correspondence that 
it decided to withdraw from offering property insurance policies. 
Insurers can choose to withdraw from the market  for example deciding to no longer 
provide domestic buildings insurance policies. Its not this services role to tell an insurer 
what policies it should offer to the market  thats a choice for the insurer to make. But we 
can consider if affected consumers have been treated fairly  or if they have been unfairly 
disadvantaged by an insurer making such a decision. 
When considering this we generally look to see if the insurer has taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the intention of the ABI guidance is achieved despite their withdrawal from the 
market. The guidance is intended to ensure consumers with previous or current subsidence 
claims can continue accessing subsidence cover on reasonable terms  and to support a 
smooth functioning of the property market. It says that when there is a claim the insurer 
handling it should normally continue to provide subsidence cover for the property.
If U hadnt decided to withdraw from the home insurance market Mr M would, had it acted in 
line with the guidance, continued to be provided with subsidence cover. He hasnt been able 
to find cover elsewhere because of the claim. So hes certainly been disadvantaged by the 
market withdrawal. Ive considered if Us response to that can be considered to be in line 
with the spirit of the guidance  and if not, has Mr M been treated unfairly.  
I accept U and SoL arent members of the ABI  but we consider the guidance as indicative 
of industry good practice (SoL seems to accept this as well). So we still feel its fair that its 
followed regardless of membership.
SoL doesnt agree with this services interpretation of the guidance. It highlights the 
guidances recognition that continuation of subsidence cover will not always be possible. It 
doesnt accept the guidance requires insurers withdrawing from the market to make 
exceptions and offer cover  or that it must find alternative cover for policyholders. 
I accept the guidance doesnt give explicit direction on what is expected when an insurer 
withdraws from the home insurance market. It does, though address block transfers of 
business.  It says it would be good practice to specify how continuing cover cases should 
be handled in transfer agreements.  
I accept this isnt the situation Mr M and U are in. There wasnt, as with a block transfer, an 
opportunity for U to specify terms of a transfer agreement. But this service is of the opinion 
its approach to block transfers demonstrates the spirit of the guidance  that an insurer 
choosing to stop providing cover should make arrangements to ensure policyholders arent 
disadvantaged. SoL has also pointed out the guidance accepts insurers cant guarantee to maintain cover in 
all circumstances. But the guidance doesnt provide any examples. So it doesnt state 
withdrawal from the market as one of those circumstances.  
However, the guidance also accepts problem cases will arise from time to time. Examples it 
gives are repeated subsidence damage and non-disclosure cases. Again the guidance 
doesnt refer to withdrawal from the market. But importantly it does say that even in these 
problem cases cover should be provided wherever possible. 
In this services view this means insurers should arrange cover unless they can present a 
compelling reason not to. This service has previously explained that might include a risk 
significantly outside of an insurers usual underwriting criteria. However, that wouldnt apply 
to subsidence as thats the problem the guidance is intended to remedy.
So, whilst considering SoLs arguments, Im satisfied that the guidance applies to the 
circumstance. And that U acting in the spirit of the guidance, when withdrawing from the 
market, would have taken reasonable steps to arrange continuous cover for Mr M.   
U did provide an extension of cover to Mr M. That saw him through to August 2021. But after 
that it left him without subsidence cover. I havent seen that it took other reasonable steps, 
beyond that short extension, to ensure the intention of the guidance was achieved. 
Other insurers, in similar situations, have found different solutions after withdrawing from the 
market. These include making an exception for affected customers and continuing to insure. 
Others have arranged with another insurer to take over the affected policies. Insurers have 
paid the additional cost between the existing policy and one provided by a specialist provider 
allowing the homeowner to access continued subsidence cover on reasonable terms. 
Neither U, nor SoL, has taken these, or other, actions to maintain cover for Mr M. The 
guidance does intend for cover to be maintained wherever possible. U isnt operating in the 
home insurance market now. So its understandable why it would prefer not to provide 
subsidence cover to Mr M. But being unable to provide it is a different matter. Im not 
persuaded, by what Ive seen, that is the case.     
SoL has explained how unlikely it would be that another insurer could be found to provide 
cover. But I havent seen the possibility was actively pursued. So Im not persuaded its not 
possible for continuous cover to be arranged with another underwriter.  
So Im satisfied there was a failure to act in line with the spirit of the guidance (and so follow 
industry best practice). I consider not following best practice, in the circumstances, is failing 
to treat him fairly. Without subsidence cover, Mr Ms been disadvantaged. Theres an 
uncertainty for him about how any future subsidence will be addressed and potential impact 
on the value of, or prospects of selling, his home. 
I understand SoLs point that it isnt an insurer or intermediary. For that reason Im requiring 
it to arrange for an insurer, U or otherwise, to provide the cover. It doesnt need to be 
involved in the detail of setting up the policy. 
So SoL should arrange for an underwriter to offer home insurance, including subsidence 
cover, to Mr M on reasonable terms. To ensure he isnt left without a gap in subsidence 
cover that cover should be backdated to the point his policy with U ended. 
The premium and other terms should be calculated in line with general underwriting 
guidelines and offer reasonable terms in line with good industry practice. To ensure the provision meets its purpose and is line with the spirit of the guidance neither should be set in 
a way that effectively prevents Mr M from accessing the ongoing subsidence cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, SoL will need to arrange for an underwriter to provide ongoing 
subsidence cover as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman