DRN-2787739
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs L took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker to 
cover a trip they planned to take between 8 and 30 March 2020. They planned to travel to a 
country Ill call A for a birthday celebration, before travelling on to a country Ill call T.
Mr and Mrs L travelled to A as planned on 8 March 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-
19 pandemic, Mr L got in touch with ERGO on 15 March 2020 to look into whether they had 
any curtailment cover if travel restrictions were imposed. ERGO let them know that a Covid-
19 related curtailment claim wouldnt be covered. On 23 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all UK nationals abroad to try and return to the UK. Mr 
and Mrs Ls original airline cancelled their onward flights to T.
A few days later, Mr L contacted ERGO again because he said Mrs L had become unwell 
with symptoms of anxiety and depression. ERGO suggested that Mr L should contact its 
medical assistance team for help. The assistance team told Mr L that he should take Mrs L 
to see a doctor. But Mr L said that due to the pandemic situation, doctors in A werent seeing 
non-nationals unless it was a medical emergency or they had Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs L were able to arrange new return flights for the same day as their original return 
date, but with a different airline. Unfortunately, following their return to the UK, Mrs L was 
ultimately diagnosed with a serious illness which led to her hospitalisation. They made a 
claim to ERGO for the costs associated with cutting short their trip; the costs of their new 
flights and other miscellaneous expenses. 
ERGO turned down the claim because it maintained that the curtailment section of the policy 
didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ls situation. Unhappy with ERGOs decision, and also because 
they felt ERGO had failed to provide them with appropriate medical assistance; Mr and Mrs 
L asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
curtailment section of the policy covered claims which arose because of changes to FCO 
advice. And he noted that while the policy did cover repatriation costs in the event of a 
policyholders illness, ERGO required medical evidence to show that repatriation was 
medically necessary. As Mrs L hadnt seen a doctor, he didnt think itd been unreasonable 
for ERGO not to arrange medical repatriation. He also added that the only section of the 
policy which wouldve likely covered Mr and Mrs Ls situation was optional catastrophe 
cover, which they hadnt taken out. So he didnt think ERGO needed to pay their claim.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. Mr L provided detailed responses to our investigator, so Ive 
summarised what I think are the key points. The investigators view was based on a policy 
which was written before Covid-19. The assistance team were only experienced in dealing 
with claims where there was access to local medical help. There had been no option for Mrs 
L to seek such help. And the assistance team hadnt offered to try and find a doctor, so Mrs 
L couldnt be examined and her serious condition hadnt been diagnosed. They said they 
had holidayed in A for many years and didnt consider that part of the trip to be a holiday. 
Their trip to T was a separate holiday which had been independently booked and separately 
cancelled. And Mr L also thought the policy definition of a catastrophe wasnt clear. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think ERGO has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the background to this complaint, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs 
L that Ive considered everything theyve said and sent me. But in reaching my decision, I 
havent commented on each and every point theyve made and Im not required to by our 
rules. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Was it fair for ERGO to turn down Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment claim?
Ive initially looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with ERGO. I appreciate Mr and Mrs L consider that their trip to T 
should be treated separately from the trip to A, under the cancellation section of the policy. 
But ERGO has set out a definition of trip within the meaning of words section of the policy. 
This sets out the following:
A holiday or journey that takes place during the Policy Period which begins when You leave 
home, and ends when You get back home, or to a hospital or nursing home in the United 
Kingdom, whichever is earlier.
As theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs L had left their home to travel to A and that their 
original intention had been to fly onto T from A, I think it was reasonable for ERGO to 
conclude that their overall trip had begun. Cancellation cover ends once a trip has started. 
So I think it was fair for ERGO to assess the claim in line with the curtailment provisions set 
out in the policy.
The curtailment section of the policy provides the following cover:
All reasonable additional travel expenses incurred by You in returning to Your home 
address in the United Kingdom where such return is urgently necessitated as a result of:
1. The death, serious Illness or severe Bodily Injury of Your Relative or Close Business 
Associate, where such Relative or Close Business Associate is resident in the United 
Kingdom.
2. Your Kidnap or the Hijack of the scheduled public transport or ship on which You are 
travelling.
3. Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current Redundancy 
Payment Legislation) and that of any person with whom You intend to travel provided 
that such notice of redundancy is advised after Your departure.
4. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your 
presence being required by the police following burglary at Your private dwelling 
occurring at any time after commencement of the Trip.Its clear that cutting short a trip because of the FCO advising against all but essential travel 
or advising UK nationals to return to the UK isnt something this section of the policy covers. 
So I dont think it was unfair for ERGO to tell Mr and Mrs L upfront that any expenses they 
incurred in curtailing their holiday wouldnt be covered.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have referred to the clarity of the policy terms relating to 
catastrophe cover. This is an optional add-on which Mr and Mrs L didnt take out when they 
took out their contract with ERGO. As they werent covered by this section of the policy, I 
dont think I need to consider this point further. 
Did ERGO handle Mr and Mrs Ls medical enquiry fairly?
Around a week after ERGO told Mr and Mrs L that any curtailment claim wouldnt be 
covered, Mr L got back in touch with ERGO by email. He explained that Mrs L had 
developed severe anxiety and depression, which required analysis and treatment. He stated 
that in order to receive treatment, theyd need to return to the UK. ERGO directed Mr L to 
contact its emergency assistance team.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy do provide medical emergency and repatriation cover. 
However, the terms make it clear that before medical repatriation can be organised, it must 
be agreed by ERGOs medical assistance team that this is the appropriate course of action. 
The policy also says that treatment or repatriation must be recommended by a medical 
practitioner. So I think it was appropriate for ERGO to direct Mr and Mrs L to its medical 
assistance team to allow it to consider whether or not it was medically necessary to 
repatriate Mrs L back to the UK.
Mr L told us that he did call the assistance team and that he was directed to take Mrs L to a 
doctor. Again, I think this was the appropriate response from ERGO. Thats because a 
doctor in A wouldve had the ability to examine Mrs A at first hand and to assess her 
symptoms. They wouldve then been in a position to consider what treatment was required 
and whether it was clinically necessary to return Mrs L to the UK for treatment. As the 
investigator explained, its generally for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show 
they have a valid claim on their policy. As such, ERGO was reasonably entitled to be 
satisfied that it was medically necessary for Mrs L to be repatriated.
I appreciate Mr L feels that ERGO shouldve been able to carry out such an assessment 
itself. But while ERGO has a medical team, including qualified medical officers, in line with 
general insurance practice, this team will generally consider the medical reports sent in by 
treating doctors and hospitals. This means I think its direction to take Mrs L to a doctor was a 
fair one.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs L werent able to access a doctor in A. I dont think I can 
fairly hold ERGO responsible for this though  as it seems it was down to the pandemic 
situation at the time. And I think, if Mr and Mrs L did consider Mrs Ls condition to be an 
emergency, it was open to them to seek emergency medical help from a hospital and get 
back in touch with the assistance company.
I understand upon their return to the UK, Mrs L was diagnosed with a very serious condition, 
and her symptoms abroad may have been linked to that. Im sorry to hear she was so unwell 
and I dont doubt how stressful this mustve been for Mr and Mrs L. But based on the 
information it seems Mr L gave ERGO about Mrs Ls symptoms, I dont think there was 
enough to put it on notice that she was suffering from a serious condition which required 
emergency treatment. This means I dont think it shouldve been prompted to conclude that 
repatriation was necessary based on the information it had. Overall, I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ls position, because I appreciate they incurred 
expenses which they havent been able to recover. And this was a unique and 
unprecedented situation, for policyholders and insurers. But based on all Ive seen, I dont 
think ERGO handled the claim unfairly. And I think it was reasonable for ERGO to conclude 
the claim wasnt covered by the terms of its contract with Mr and Mrs L. This means Im not 
telling ERGO to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman