DRN-4212847
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with her contents insurance claim with Ageas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mrs O has a contents insurance policy underwritten by Ageas that provides cover for 
replacing, repairing, or rebuilding items or paying a cash equivalent. 
In July 2021 she made a claim following a theft at her house where the door was damaged, 
and jewellery was taken. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed an agent to assist them in 
validating the stolen items. Ageas then offered Mrs O various settlement options. 
Mrs O remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. She explained her jewellery 
cant be replaced with vouchers. And the cash settlement should reflect the value of the 
jewellery - not the cost for Ageas to replace it.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said Ageas had been reasonable in 
their options to settle the claim. Mrs O disagreed. In summary she said: 
Certain items no longer exist in the marketplace due to their age. So for those there 
cant be any reasonable replacement or match 
She should be receiving the items worth rather the cost of a replacement for an item 
that no longer exists 
Each item should be settled individually 
There should be a voucher option for the full value of the claim
She remained unhappy with the way Ageas had calculated the cash settlement 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Ageas has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Os policy say:
We will settle your claim by either: Replacing, repairing, or rebuilding items (dependant on 
which will be more cost effective), or paying you their cash equivalent, based on what it 
would cost us to replace the item(s). We will decide which option is most appropriate
I understand Mrs O disagrees with how Ageas have used the term replacement, because 
many of her items were collectables and no longer available. She therefore feels Ageas are 
wrong in how they have reached settlement on her claim. But the insurance policy that Mrs 
O took out was for replacement cover, not to cover the items actual value/worth. 
Ageas said they could replace all but one of the items Mrs O claimed for and offered a cash 
settlement of £4,927.17. They provided evidence of their validation report and explained the 
settlement figure was the cost for them to replace the jewellery with their supplier. Im 
satisfied the settlement figure is fair and based on the cost of replacement. And I dont think 
it was an unreasonable way for Ageas to calculate the cash settlement. 
As Mrs O was unhappy, Ageas also offered her other options  such as vouchers from other 
retailers. And additional cash top ups for the sovereigns that couldnt be replaced. They also 
offered a personal jewellery service with the supplier, worth £8,727.19 which would allow 
Mrs O to have bespoke jewellery made to be as close to her original items as possible, or 
any jewellery of her choice. 
I appreciate why Mrs O doesnt think the voucher or the bespoke jewellery was a suitable 
option for her in the circumstances - its difficult to replace sentimental or collectors items 
exactly. But Ageas acted in line with the policy terms and provided multiple options to Mrs O 
to try and help resolve the matter. So I dont think she was treated unfairly. 
Its not uncommon for insurers to offer a reasonable match as a replacement. Policies are 
in place to indemnify a customer, and I feel Ageas have been fair in their settlement options 
for Mrs O.
Mrs O has said her items should have been settled individually. Whilst I appreciate why this 
may have made it easier for her, I dont think the way Ageas has collated or calculated their 
settlement options is unreasonable. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mrs O as she feels strongly that she should be given the 
cost of her items worth, rather than the cost of replacement. But thats not the type of policy 
she has. I think the options provided by Ageas for a cash settlement, vouchers to find 
replacements and the offer to make new jewellery were reasonable and in line with the terms 
of her policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman