DRN-3415669
The complaint
Mr S complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) unfairly recorded a default on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr S had a debt management plan (DMP) with a business that for the purposes of this 
decision Ill call S. One of the accounts included in the DMP was a debt he owed to Arrow.
Arrow had another company administering the account on its behalf  for the purposes of 
this decision  Ill call them N, but as they are working on Arrows behalf Arrow have 
responsibility for their actions here.
In January 2021 Mr S says he wrote to Arrow and N to ask for a three-month payment 
holiday  from February until April - he explained that he had caught Covid-19 in the 
previous November and had been struggling to maintain his payments since then. He didnt 
hear back from either business and so wrote again in February 2021, by which point Mr S 
father had also become ill, and he was looking after him. Mr S also contacted S to let them 
know what was going on.
Arrow says it never received any notifications from Mr S regarding the payment holiday and 
so it wasnt granted.
Mr S didnt make any payments towards his DMP in February, March and April 2021 and 
resumed in May. 
As Mr S hadnt made payments since January, and Arrow say there was no payment holiday 
in place - on 5 April 2021 they issued a notice of termination giving Mr S until 14 June to 
repay his account in full. The letter explained that if Mr S didnt repay the full balance by this 
date a default would be reported to his credit file.  
Mr S contacted N explaining that he thought hed been granted a payment holiday as he had 
requested back in January. He says he believed this to be true because all of his other 
creditors had accepted the payment holiday.
N wrote to Mr S on 5 May the letter said:
You previously notified us that you had been affected by the ongoing Covid-19
pandemic, either directly or via a debt management company. Upon receiving this
notification, we granted you a payment deferral and you should have received a
letter with a confirmation of steps we're taking and impact this will have on your
account. Unfortunately, due to a system error, we did not provide you with this
confirmation letter. Please accept our apologies for this error and any
inconvenience it might have caused you.
Arrow carried on with the termination and recorded a default on Mr S credit file. 
Mr S complained about this to Arrow asking for the default to be removed, they didnt uphold 
it. They said N didnt receive the request from S to put in place a payment holiday until May 
2021. 
Mr M was unhappy with their response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought the case should be upheld, she said she was satisfied that Mr S had 
requested the payment holiday as he had shown copies of the letters, he said hed sent to 
Arrow and N. She also said it was ok that Arrow had sent the notice of termination as they 
said they hadnt received these letters but once Mr S contacted them after the letter, they 
should have taken actions to resolve the matter before going ahead with the default. She 
asked Arrow to remove the default and pay Mr S £300 I compensation.  Arrow disagreed 
and so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I wrote to both Arrow and Mr S explaining my initial thoughts on the case and asked Arrow if 
they would like to change their position based on what Id said (below):
Mr S was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) - he has shown evidence that he 
contacted the DMP provider to arrange a payment holiday for February, March and 
April 2021. This was successfully executed with all his other creditors.
The investigator previously upheld the complaint and asked Arrow to remove the 
default and pay Mr S £300, as she felt there was enough evidence to show he had 
written to request the Covid-19 payment holiday. And that even if that hadn't been 
put through as it should have been Arrow had been notified of the problem in enough 
time to stop the default from happening and correct the situation. Arrow didn't accept 
the findings.
I am also intending to uphold Mr S complaint but for slightly different reasons and 
wanted to let you know my thoughts before issuing my decision to see if Arrow wants 
to change its position.
Mr S was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) - he has shown evidence that 
he contacted the DMP provider to arrange a payment holiday for February, 
March and April 2021. This was successfully executed with all his other 
creditors.
Mr S has told us that he also wrote to Arrow and N to request this payment 
break.
 Mr S has provided a copy of a letter from N dated 5 May 2021 the contents 
are noted above
Arrow issued a Notice of Termination of Agreement on 5 April 2021 asking for 
full payment on the account by 14 June 2021.
Mr S made Arrow aware of the issue prior to 14 June 2021 - but Arrow went 
ahead and terminated the account and recorded a default.
During the global pandemic, the FCA issued guidance that set out how businesses 
should deal with consumers whose circumstances had been impacted by Covid-19. 
This explained businesses should agree to agree to apply payment holidays for up to 
six months.
Based on the above I think the letter from N, along with the fact that all other 
creditors agreed a payment holiday for that time period, supports what Mr Shas told us that he requested a payment holiday. The Letter from N who were dealing with the 
account on behalf of Arrow, show it was more likely than not that N and therefore 
Arrow were aware of the request. But that because of a system error didn't process it 
properly. As such the Notice of Termination should never have been issued and 
therefore the default should not have been applied. I understand this may have been 
caused by a communication breakdown between N and Arrow, but this should not 
cause detriment to Mr S.
Because of this I intend to instruct Arrow to remove the default and pay Mr S £500 for 
the upset and worry it has caused him, and the for the impact this has had on his 
credit file.
Arrow responded disagreeing, in summary they said:
Them nor N received the letters from Mr S and werent contacted by S to request the 
payment holiday until May 2021, after the notice of termination was sent out, so they 
dont agree it shouldnt have been sent.
Its unfair to say Arrow or N miscommunicated as there is no evidence Mr S or S 
made contact until after the notice of termination had been sent.
On the balance of probabilities, they believe there is a strong case to say Mr S didnt 
update his circumstances until May 2022 after, the notice of termination was sent.
Mr S responded to my initial thoughts saying he agreed with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Where theres a 
dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence. Having done so I will be upholding this complaint, and for 
broadly the same reasons Ive set out above, Ill explain.
I have found Mr S testimony to be strong  he has told us that he sent letters to both Arrow 
and N. He has dated photos of the letters, And I find it hard to believe he would have written 
them and not sent them. He has also told us that he contacted S to advise them of his 
situation. I have seen an email response from S to Mr S dated 2 February in which they ask 
him to fill out the budget review as he is struggling with payments for the next three months. 
Based on this and the fact that all of his other creditors agreed to the payment holiday for 
February until April, I think its fair to say its more likely than not Mr S applied for the payment 
holiday through S. And I have no reason to disbelieve he also sent the letters direct to Arrow 
and N, as he said he did. 
Arrow has said they think the letter from N on 5 May 2021 is in response to contact from S 
on 29 April and there is no evidence of any errors, but that doesnt seem likely. I say this 
because:
The letter said there had been a system error
The contact from S on 29 April 2021 doesnt ask for a holiday  its one line on some 
system notes that say customer impacted by covidThe letter says the holiday had previously been granted if it had then it would have 
been in place in the previous months  supporting that Mr S asked for it earlier
Arrow has told us the holiday wasnt put in place until June, when Mr S was making 
monthly payments and didnt need the holiday as he was able to meet his monthly 
payments again. 
Both of the last statements cant be true together, so I think its more likely than not that there 
has been an error somewhere between N and Arrow. Therefore, on balance I think the 
payment holiday was requested when Mr S said it was and the termination notice shouldnt 
have been sent to Mr S.
Ive gone on to think about Arrows argument that its more likely Mr S didnt update S, Arrow 
or N with his circumstances until after the notice of termination was sent. And even if I 
accept this to be the case (which to be clear I dont), I think Arrow had a duty to treat Mr S 
fairly and take into account what he was saying about at that time . As this would be in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance around how business should deal with 
consumers that were affected by the covid-19 pandemic. The fair and reasonable thing for 
them to have done at that point would have been to retract the notice of termination and 
apply the payment holiday retrospectively. As Ive already said though, Im satisfied Mr S did 
apply for the payment holiday and an error occurred preventing this from being applied. So, I 
will be instructing Arrow to remove the default from Mr S credit file.
When thinking about the distress and inconvenience that has been caused here, Ive taken 
into account Mr S circumstances. Mr S having been ill himself was caring for his sick father, 
who sadly passed away, all while trying to deal with something that should have been 
relatively simple for Arrow to put right. So, I can see this would have caused him a huge 
amount of worry at a time when he was vulnerable. 
In addition to this Mr S has had the impact of a default, that shouldnt have been there, on 
his credit file since June 2021. This has also caused him a great deal of worry thinking that 
this would be affecting him for six years, especially as he has reduced the debt he owes 
significantly in the time since his requested payment holiday. I think £500 is a fair payment to 
reflect the impact caused here, and inline with our approach to compensation payments.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Arrow should now:
Remove the default from Mr S credit file
Pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenient caused by the default being applied 
unfairly.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman