DRN-4082960
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 18 December 2020, Mrs A applied for a credit card account with Clydesdale. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £5,200. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mrs A complained to Clydesdale to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Clydesdale ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Clydesdale didnt agree. So, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 22 March 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mrs As complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Clydesdale will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs As complaint is that Clydesdale made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Clydesdale has explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs A provided at the 
time of the application to assess affordability. Clydesdale said they carried out a credit 
search in Mrs As name to assess her level of debt at that time and to understand how she 
had been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, 
Clydesdale decided to agree a credit limit of £5,200. 
The income that Mrs A declared was not modest. And the Clydesdale checks showed that 
Mrs A already owed an amount in unsecured borrowings that was not insignificant but it 
wasnt immodest when compared to the good salary that Mrs A declared. 
Clydesdale told us that the credit checks they performed showed that Mrs As credit file 
was very clean at the time of the loan application. I have noted the credit file that Mrs A 
provided. It supports the information that Clydesdale said they gathered at the time of the 
lending decision. The credit file shows that Mrs A had no immediate history of defaults, 
CCJs or arrears on her credit. So, it seemed from the credit checks that at the point that 
the lending decision was made, Mrs A was affording her existing credit. 
So, I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that Clydesdale acquired 
or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that 
they were remiss in not checking Mrs As expenditure more closely. At the point that Mrs A 
applied for the credit card there was nothing from the credit reference agency that made 
that level of credit automatically unreasonable or that would have put Clydesdale off 
supplying the credit. And having considered all the submissions made in this case, I think 
that was reasonable. 
And I dont think that deeper checks would have put Clydesdale off providing the lending. I 
say that because the credit report shows that Mrs A was managing her existing credit. And 
the bank statements that Mrs A has provided show a large amount of money coming into 
her account each month and that balances the amount leaving it. So again, the bank 
statements evidence Mrs A managing her finances. 
In this case, I have also noted that the first use of the card was for a balance transfer. The 
account opened on 19 December 2020 and on 21 December 2020 Mrs A did a balance 
transfer onto the new card for £4,000. The credit card had offered a promotional offer of 
0% interest on balance transfers until 19 August 2022. 
So, I dont see the new credit card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Clydesdale, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it 
looks more likely that Mrs A was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage 
her existing debt by taking out this card and using it to secure more favourable terms to 
existing credit. I say that because Mrs A would have been saving money on interest she 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Clydesdale to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Clydesdale provided Mrs A was unreasonable. Further, 
Im not persuaded that what Clydesdale could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mrs A to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 12 April 2023. Neither party has acknowledged receiving the 
provisional decision, made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. I 
consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make a further submission, had they 
wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
thinking that this is a complaint that should not be upheld, I have nothing further to add. My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman