DRN-3837346
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly closed its 
bank account and defaulted its Bounce Back Loan.
Mr A is Ms director and he brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M banked with Starling and borrowed £50,000 from the bank through the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. Mr A also banked with Starling in a personal capacity, but this complaint deals only 
with the accounts held by M.
Starling initiated a review of the accounts held by Mr A, including that of Ms, in July 2021. A 
restriction was applied to Ms account, meaning that the funds held within it couldnt be 
utilised, while the review was completed.
The findings of Starlings review ultimately led it to withdraw its services from M. Starling 
wrote to M in August 2021 to advise that it was closing the companys bank account. It said 
that the account balance  of around £4,100  would be issued to M by cheque.
On attempting to pay in the cheque, Mr A learned that it had been cancelled. After raising 
this with Starling, he was told that this was due to banking restrictions, and that the bank 
was looking at an appropriate way to proceed in consideration of the Bounce Back Loan.
Starling subsequently terminated the Bounce Back Loan facility. It sent M a default notice in 
November 2021 demanding immediate repayment of the outstanding balance, which was 
around £50,300. The bank later applied the closing balance of Ms account to the amount 
owed under the Bounce Back Loan agreement. So there were no funds left to distribute to 
M.
Mr A doesnt think Starlings restriction and closure of Ms account, or its termination of the 
Bounce Back Loan, were fair. He says M was left unable to pay the loan while its account 
was being closed  and that, despite his requests, Starling didnt advise him of an alternative 
means of payment. Hes also unhappy that M was left without the closing balance held in the 
account, and that Starling has declined to offer M access to the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) 
repayment options that are typically available under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
Our investigator didnt think Starling had done anything wrong in restricting and closing Ms 
account, or in terminating the Bounce Back Loan. She said the bank had demonstrated that 
it had reasonable grounds for taking these actions, and had done so in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions. She also said that Starling had been entitled to use the 
funds held in Ms account to pay down the Bounce Back Loan debt. But she thought that the 
bank had made an error in initially advising M that it would release the balance to the 
company  and sending it a cheque that could then not be cashed. For the inconvenience 
this had caused, she recommended that Starling pay M compensation of £100. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He still didnt think it was fair for the loan to have 
been defaulted, given that payments had been up to date prior to the closure of Ms account 
and, thereafter, hed been asking Starling how to continue making payments without reply. 
He wanted Starling to grant M access to the PAYG options, such as a payment holiday or 
term extension.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Ms account allowed Starling to suspend its services. In its 
response to Ms complaint, Starling explained that it restricted the companys account in 
order to comply with its legal obligations. And Im satisfied, from the evidence it has provided 
to us, that this was the case. So I dont think Starling did anything wrong in restricting Ms 
account while conducting its review.
Following the review, Starling decided to close Ms account. That was a decision it was 
entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close the companys account 
for any reason at any time by giving two months notice. But it could also do so immediately 
in certain circumstances. 
While Ms account technically remained open for a few months after the bank had given the 
company notice of the intended closure, it was effectively closed immediately as M was 
unable to use it in any meaningful way because the restriction remained in place. Given the 
circumstances here, I think Starling was entitled to close Ms account immediately  so I 
dont think M was treated unfairly here. There was, though, a complication in how Starling 
dealt with the funds that M held in the account at the time of the closure. But, as that relates 
to the companys Bounce Back Loan debt, Ill come on to that in more detail below. 
Starlings review also led it to terminate Ms Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand its immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. 
I understand from what Mr A has told us that he doesnt think the default of the loan was fair, 
as M had been up to date with the repayments prior to the suspension of its bank account  
and as it only had trouble doing so thereafter because it couldnt get an answer from Starling 
as to how it should make payments now that the account from which its direct debit was paid 
was being closed. But the loan wasnt defaulted due to any issues with payment (or non-
payment). The loan was defaulted in light of the findings of Starlings review. 
As noted above, the loan agreement provided for a number of circumstances in which 
Starling could terminate and recall the loan. While the failure to pay the required instalments 
would be one such circumstance, it isnt the only one. So the fact that M was maintaining the 
monthly payments doesnt mean that Starling couldnt terminate the agreement. Im satisfied 
that Starling was entitled to recall the loan in the manner it did, given the circumstances 
here.I recognise that Starlings decision  and the position this has left M in  will be difficult for 
Mr A to accept, particularly without knowing the reasons behind it. But Starling isnt obliged 
to disclose its rationale and I cant fairly require it do so. Our rules allow us to accept 
information in confidence, so Starling has shared the reasons for its decision with us on that 
basis. I can assure Mr A that I have carefully reviewed this in assessing whether Starling 
acted fairly, and in concluding ultimately that it did.
The terms and conditions of Ms account and the loan agreement also gave Starling the 
right of set off  meaning, in short, that it was entitled to use any funds held in any of the 
accounts M held with it to repay any amounts that the bank was owed. So I dont think 
Starling did anything wrong in using the funds from Ms account to reduce the amount owing 
under the Bounce Back Loan agreement. 
There was, though, an error on Starlings part in advising M that the closing balance would 
be released to it  and, further, in issuing a cheque that Mr A attempted to cash, only to find 
that it had been cancelled. None of that shouldve happened. The bank should either have 
finalised its intentions regarding the Bounce Back Loan at the same time as closing Ms 
account, or at the very least advised Mr A that the account balance was under review. 
Instead it caused M inconvenience in attempting to cash a cancelled cheque, and then 
having to engage with the bank to work out what was happening. Its right that M is 
compensated for that. To that end, I also think that £100 compensation is fair.
I understand Mr A wants Starling to allow M to repay the loan over the originally agreed 
terms of repayment to include access to the PAYG options. But with the loan having 
defaulted, the balance became immediately repayable. The original payment schedule has 
ceased to apply, and M is not eligible for the PAYG options due to the default. I can see that 
Starling explained this to M in December 2021.
I take it from what Mr A says that M might not have the means by which to repay the full 
amount owing. So I suggest he liaises with Starling as to a way forward, if he hasnt already 
done so while awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Id expect Starling to give fair 
consideration to any repayment proposals he makes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Starling Bank Limited to 
pay M compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman