DRN-2855475
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement offered by Haven Insurance Company Limited following 
a claim against his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W had a car insurance policy with Haven. In July 2020 he was involved in an incident that 
meant his car was deemed beyond economical repair. Haven offered to pay a cash 
settlement to the finance company of £3,415. This was what Haven considered to be the 
pre-accident market value of the car of £3,965, less the excess payable of £550. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the settlement as he said the valuation was too low. He made a 
complaint to Haven and rejected the amount as an interim payment. 
Haven didnt uphold the complaint. It said its valuation was fair and had taken into account 
trade guide values, the engineers report of the condition of the car prior to the accident  as 
well as a lack of service history. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she didnt think it was fair for Haven to make all the deductions it had for pre-existing 
damage. She checked our trade guides and recommended Haven pay a fairer pre-accident 
market value of £4,870, less the excess on the policy. She did feel it was fair that Haven 
make a deduction of for some existing tyre damage. She also felt that Haven should pay    
Mr W £100 compensation for the time it had taken to resolve the claim and some customer 
service issues. 
Haven accepted our investigators findings. However, whilst Mr W was happy with the 
revised settlement figure, he thought that Haven should pay him more for the trouble and 
upset this had caused. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven has agreed with our investigators valuation based on the market value of the car at 
the time of the incident (which is what the policy says will be paid out if the car is deemed a 
total loss) and not including the majority of deductions that they had previously made. Mr W 
has also accepted our investigators valuation of his car. 
When considering whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided
by trade guides. This service considers these to be the most reliable for calculations as they
are based on the amount vehicles has been sold for, rather than just advertised prices. The
values also take into account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. And the
condition of the car.
I have looked at the valuations given by the trade guides available. And I can see that a fair
average of these valuations is £4,870. This average is based on Mr Ws car at its age and
mileage at the time of the incident. It also takes into account that it was in a good condition.
Having reviewed these valuations, I agree with the investigator this is fair and reasonable.
Mr W remains unhappy with the £100 that Haven agreed to pay as compensation for some 
of the errors in the service he has received. This was suggested by the investigator in regard 
to some delays in getting back to Mr W, not providing a response from the engineer in a 
timely manner and initially making unreasonable deductions when offering a settlement. 
Mr W feels he should be paid considerably more than that for the time he was without a car 
and has provided a breakdown of additional costs that he says he had to pay. However, I 
think the amount offered is fair. Whilst I do understand this has been going on for nearly a 
year and the inconvenience that will have caused, Haven did offer a settlement within a 
timely manner. It was also offered as an interim payment to the finance company, which Mr 
W could have accepted whilst he continued to dispute the valuation. 
Haven have agreed not to make the deductions that were initially set out apart from pre-
existing tyre damage. I agree this is fair. I am not satisfied that the rear bumper or right 
mirror was pre-existing, and we wouldnt expect to see a deduction for a lack of full-service 
history. Both parties have agreed to the deduction for a tyre repair, but we would only ask 
that 50% of the cost is deducted. Which both parties have agreed with.
Whilst we havent agreed with the all the initial deductions or the original settlement amount, 
it was offered fairly and in a timely manner. Mr W chose to reject the interim payment and I 
believe it is this, that has led to him being without a car for this period. A courtesy car was 
provided in line with the policy conditions, and Haven werent required to do any more than 
that. 
For these reasons, I am satisfied that the valuation put forward by the investigator and 
accepted and offered by Haven is fair and reasonable. I also agree that £100 is fair 
compensation for the errors made and that Haven dont need to pay anything more for the 
time that Mr W has been without a car and the extra expense this has caused.
  
Putting things right
For the reasons I have given, I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W 
£4,870 as settlement. Less any interim payment already made, the policy excess and the 
deduction for 50% of the tyre cost. And pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of 
the loss until the date settlement is paid. And to pay Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Haven Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Haven Insurance Company Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Haven Insurance Company Limited should put things right, as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman