DRN-2574867
The complaint
Mr C and Miss W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) displayed the personal 
details of an unknown third party when they were applying for a mortgage agreement in 
principle (AIP). 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr C and Miss W used Barclays website to obtain a mortgage 
agreement in principle. At the time, neither Mr C or Miss W were customers of Barclays. 
During the application process Mr C and Miss W received an error message. They accessed 
the system to try to obtain the AIP again and after completing the relevant fields to retrieve 
their previous application, they were presented it a pre-filled form that contained another 
partys details. Mr C and Miss W explain that they were able to see the other persons name, 
date of birth, phone number, email address, and details relating to their employment. 
As they were concerned about their own information being revealed to other parties, Mr C 
and Miss W raised this issue with Barclays. Barclays accepted this mistake had happened, 
and it explained that the information related to an unknown third party with the same 
surname as Mr C. 
When Mr C and Miss W complained to Barclays about the issue, Barclays explained that 
despite what had happened, there was no suggestion or evidence that Mr C and Miss Ws 
data had been revealed to any other party. It logged the issue with its internal data privacy 
team, but it also explained that the issue didnt need to be reported to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) as there was no evidence that Mr C and Miss Ws data had 
been breached, nor that theyd been affected by this. 
Mr C and Miss W werent happy with Barclays response. They didnt think that Barclays had 
taken the situation seriously, and they werent satisfied that Barclays had acknowledged the 
stress and anxiety that the situation had caused them. 
Mr C and Miss W have requested that Barclays pays them compensation reflecting the 
substantial amount of stress and anxiety that the situation has caused. Theyve also 
requested confirmation that their own details werent breached, and confirmation that the 
third-party and the ICO have been informed of what happened. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. Whilst 
he understood the worry that Mr C and Miss W had faced as a result of what had happened, 
he thought Barclays had taken reasonable steps to resolve the issue  so he didnt think 
Barclays needed to do anything else. 
Mr C and Miss W didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should firstly explain that my remit isnt to punish businesses or put things right that havent 
happened, but theoretically could have. I also cant look into data breaches themselves  
thats the role of the ICO  so Mr C and Miss W can approach the ICO directly if they wish 
to. 
Ive seen evidence from Barclays that when it was made aware of this issue, it was raised 
with its internal data privacy team. The privacy team judged that the issue was low-risk, so it 
didnt think that any further action needed to be taken. It also explained that the issue didnt 
need to be reported to the ICO by Barclays.
Barclays has explained that it has no evidence that Mr C and Miss Ws data was breached, 
in the way theyre concerned that it mightve been. And Mr C and Miss W also havent 
provided anything to show that this has happened. I do fully appreciate they were worried 
about what might have happened, after seeing what happened to the third partys data, but 
that doesnt satisfy me that this did or happen, nor that it was a wider issue than a one-off.
Mr C and Miss W have given details about their circumstances to illustrate how this issue 
caused them stress and anxiety. I certainly understand that they were already going through 
a difficult time after dealing with a bereavement in the family. I can only offer my sincere 
condolences for their loss, and I fully appreciate that the situation with Barclays wouldnt 
have made things any easier. 
But I do also need to reiterate that theres nothing to suggest that anything untoward has 
happened with any of Mr C and Miss Ws data  other than their suspicion that that might be 
the case. And with that in mind, it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that Barclays needs to put 
something right without a reason for doing so. I cant award compensation based on a 
suspicion or a possibility, so Im afraid Im not asking Barclays to do anything further to 
recognise the stress and anxiety that Mr C and Miss W felt.
I understand that Mr C and Miss W will likely be disappointed with my decision, but I hope 
they understand why Ive reached it. I should add that Barclays has explained that if Mr C 
and Miss W do notice any direct impact on their personal data as a result of this issue, it will 
look into that.
Id also like to reiterate that I havent considered the actual data that was breached  nor 
Barclays decision on the severity of that and whether it needed to be reported. Thats not 
within my power as an ombudsman. Thats a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office; if Mr C and Miss W choose to pursue that they can do so at www.ico.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ws complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman