DRN-1383108
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on his 
home emergency insurance policy.
Mr Ms represented by his son. 
What happened
In early June 2019, Mr M suffered a loss of electricity in the downstairs of his home. He 
made a claim to British Gas, which arranged for an engineer to visit. This engineer noted 
there was a fault on ground ring 1 cable at each socket and rodents present under floor 
substandard But he couldnt get underneath the flooring to check.
Three days later, a second engineer visited Mr Ms home. The records of his visit state 
ground floor sockets not a true ring, hidden junction boxes under floor. British Gas said the 
only way around this issue was to lead a new cable to the sockets, which it said would be an 
electrical upgrade. It told Mr M the work wouldnt be covered by his home emergency policy, 
because the problem was down to a design fault which existed when he took out the cover. 
So it said hed need to pay for the repair works himself. The engineer gave Mr M a verbal 
quote for the works, which Mr M asked for in writing.
British Gas didnt send Mr M a written quote until several days later. It said this could take up 
to 14 days. Mr M got some independent quotes and a third- party electrician completed the 
repairs on 22 June 2019. 
Mr M was unhappy with British Gas decision about his claim and his representative made a 
complaint on his behalf. He complained that the claim had been turned down; about the 
delay in getting a written quote and that he felt the policy wording was ambiguous. Thats 
because it didnt define what was meant by a design fault.
British Gas maintained its decision to turn down Mr Ms claim. It said the repair works 
werent covered by the policy. But it acknowledged the first engineer shouldve arranged for 
a quote to be provided for the necessary repair works. So it offered Mr M £30 compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr Ms representative wasnt happy with British Gas response. He asked us to look into Mr 
Ms complaint. He provided comments from the electrician whod carried out the repairs to 
Mr Ms electrics to support his position. The electrician said the electrics that had been in 
place for a number of years conformed to British standards. He said a full diagnostic check 
hadnt taken place. But he said a fair assessment would be that the fault was caused by 
cable damage that had degraded below the threshold required by a residual current device.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. He called the electrician to get some 
clarification about the cause of the damage. In summary, the electrician said the installation 
was substandard and had lots of junction boxes under the floor. Based on this and the notes from British Gas engineers, the investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
He thought the fault likely had existed when the policy was taken out. And he didnt think the 
electrics could be repaired without improvements being made. Neither of these things were 
covered by Mr Ms policy. So he thought it was fair for British Gas to turn down the claim.
Mr M's representative disagreed with the investigator. Ive summarised his main points:
The policy covers trace and access costs of up to £1000. British Gas hasnt said 
what it meant by a substandard floor or explained why it didnt lift the floor to 
investigate the cables;
British Gas hasnt defined what it means by a design fault or provide a clear 
reference point to policy exclusions or acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
responsibilities;;
There was no power in the downstairs of Mr Ms home for almost three weeks. The 
time taken to provide a quote was largely in excess of the industry average;
The electrician said the electrics were installed to the appropriate British standard;his 
comments reflect the quality of his work;The findings of the two British Gas engineers 
and the electrician werent consistent with one another;
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
British Gas to turn down Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
Mr M's representative has provided detailed submissions on Mr Ms behalf. Id like to 
reassure him that Ive read everything hes sent me very carefully, even though Ive 
summarised his points above. In making my decision, Ive focused on what I think are the 
key issues. These are: 
Was it fair for British Gas to turn down the claim? 
Are the policy terms clear? 
Ill address these points in turn. Im unable to comment on the delays in producing the quote. 
Thats because this relates to work that isnt covered by Mr Ms insurance policy  its 
chargeable work by British Gas. So I dont have the power to look into this part of his 
complaint.
Was it fair to British Gas to turn down the claim?
When Mr M first reported the electrical problems he was experiencing, British Gas sent out 
an engineer. That engineer thought the damage could be due to rodents, but he also thought 
there might be a problem with the cable ring, underneath the floor. He couldnt get access to 
fully diagnose the fault. I appreciate the representatives unhappy that the engineer referred 
to the floor as substandard. I can understand why the use of this word is upsetting. But I 
think its most likely to refer to the position of the electrics within the floor as being 
substandard.
The second engineer who attended said the cable wasnt a true ring and there were junction 
boxes hidden under the floors. This appears to support what the first engineer found  that 
there was a problem with the cable ring. Both engineers agreed that there was a problem 
with how the cable ring had been installed, which was a fault with the original design and 
installation. So Ive turned to look at the terms of Mr Ms policy. 
The general exclusions section of the policy says:Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
Existed when you first took out the product.
 
As the engineers put the problem down to a design fault, British Gas said the claim wasnt 
covered. And as the engineers were able to access the fault without needing to lift the floors, 
it seems trace and access wasnt required. 
Mr Ms representative has provided evidence from his electrician to counter the findings of 
British Gas engineers. Ive considered this evidence very carefully. I acknowledge that in 
his email, he told us that the electrics were installed in line with British standards. But I also 
have to place significant weight on the conversation he later had with our investigator in 
which he went into quite a bit more detail about the cause of the problem.
During that call, the electrician said (in summary) that the fault was more down to the 
standard to which the system was installed than any one issue. He said the installation was 
substandard and not the standard hed expect to see. And he said there were a lot of 
junction boxes under the floor, meaning there wasnt access to them. He said, Youd hope 
that the people that installed the work were good at their jobs, but unfortunately they 
werent. And he also added, It doesnt help when the things installed incorrectlythis 
didnt have a chance really.
In my view, the electricians comments support that the problem with the electrics was down 
to faults in the way the system was installed. Ive also looked at the invoice the electrician 
provided to see what works he carried out. This says: to install additional socket from new 
radial circuit in living room. The electrical condition report also says new radial circuit to 
ground floor. Again, this appears to support what British Gas engineers found  that there 
was a problem with the circuit on the ground floor. So I do think the findings of all three 
experts were broadly consistent.
It seems the repairs couldnt take place without a rewire and the installation of new sockets. 
This would be an upgrade to electrical works which simply isnt covered by the policy. And 
the evidence Ive seen shows its most likely the fault was due to poor installation of the 
electrical system at the start. So I think it was specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Overall, this means I think it was fair for British Gas to turn down Mr Ms claim.
Are the policy terms clear?
Mr Ms representative feels the policy terms are ambiguous because they dont define what 
design fault means. In the absence of a definition, we usually look at the ordinary meaning 
of a word. In this case, fault would mean a mistake; something broken or a weakness in a 
system. A design fault would therefore mean a weakness or mistake in the design of Mr Ms 
electrical system. As Ive explained, I think all three engineers found problems with the 
installation and design of Mr Ms electrical system. So I dont think the policy is unclear on 
this point. 
Mr Ms representative has also mentioned that the exclusions of the policy werent 
referenced clearly. Insurers need to make sure significant or unusual exclusion clauses are 
drawn to a policyholders attention when they take out a policy and are clearly set out in the 
policy wording. I think the exclusion clauses are clearly explained in Mr Ms policy. Theyre also fairly standard terms  insurance is designed to cover unexpected or 
unforeseen events, not problems that have already happened. Most, if not all, home 
emergency insurance policies wouldnt cover problems that already existed when a policy 
was taken out, or betterment. So even if I didnt think the policy had been clear enough, I 
dont think Mr M wouldve been able to find a policy that did cover his situation.
Overall, I think British Gas has treated Mr M fairly in the way it handled his claim and I dont 
think the policy is ambiguous. So I wont be asking it to pay Mr M anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman