DRN-2845278
The complaint
Mr F has complained that EUI Limited didnt add breakdown cover when he added a new car
to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F held a motor insurance policy, that hed bought through EUI, which had breakdown
cover as an optional extra. Mr F contacted EUI through its webchat service to add an
additional car to the policy. Mr F thought that the optional extras would remain the same, as
he was adding a car to his policy rather than setting up a new one.
When the car hed added to his policy broke down, Mr F called the breakdown service he
held for his first car. The breakdown service told him they didnt have his details and if he
wasnt covered then he would be responsible for any costs incurred. Mr F agreed to this, as
he thought it was an error because he thought he was covered.
EUI said that Mr F owed £1,350 in recovery costs as he didnt have breakdown cover for the
second car. Mr F complained to EUI, as he was unhappy hed incurred costs when he
thought he had breakdown cover. EUI said its agents werent expected to discuss optional
extras on the chat service, as there was a high volume of enquiries due to the pandemic. It
said Mr F hadnt asked for the policy to mirror the first one or for breakdown cover and so it
wasnt included.
As he remained unhappy with EUIs response, Mr F brought his complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 May 2021 where I explained why I 
thought this complaint should be upheld. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When arranging cover for Mr Fs new car, EUI had a duty to provide him with information
that was clear fair and not misleading. I dont think it did that in this particular case and Ill
explain why.
When Mr F contacted EUI he asked to add a car to his policy. Later in the chat EUIs agent
confirmed Mr F was looking to add an additional car. This indicates to me that Mr F thought
he was adding a car to the policy he already held and as such reasonably thought the
second car would be covered on the same basis as the first one.
I appreciate that EUI didnt expect its agents to sell any optional extras at the time Mr F
added his car, due to the pandemic and a high volume of enquiries. But I do think it should
have made it clear that the cover wasnt on the same basis at the first car and that Mr F
might have optional extras for his first policy that he didnt have for the second.
In contrast to this, EUIs agent says they will give some key information about the cover and
may discuss additional products available. Towards the end of the call the agent also says
weve discussed the main features of this policy (and any optional extras) but not all terms
and conditions. I think this would have given Mr F the impression that optional extras would
have been discussed if they were any different.
I wouldnt expect Mr F to have known that he needed to request optional extras or that he
needed to specifically ask for the cover to mirror the policy for the first car. I think it was
enough for Mr F to say that he wanted to add another car to his policy. And EUI should have
told him that there may be a difference in the cover provided and that he specifically needed
to request optional extras. I understand EUI was busy, but I dont think thats a reason for it
to not provide clear information.
I can see that breakdown cover is listed as an optional extra on one of Mr Fs Motor Policy
Schedule, but I dont think its absence from the second one is enough for me to fairly
conclude that EUI made it clear enough that the cover provided was different to the cover
hed bought for his first car.
By not providing Mr F with clear information, I think EUI caused him a financial loss. Thats
because when Mr F needed the breakdown cover he clearly thought he had, he was
charged for the service. Im satisfied that if EUI had provided clearer information, Mr F would
have added breakdown cover to his policy or purchased it elsewhere. I say that because he
added it to his first policy and he agreed to the recovery costs on the belief that he did have
cover. If EUI had provided clear information, this would have meant that Mr F wouldnt have
incurred the costs he did in having his car recovered.
So, to put Mr F back in the position he should have been in if EUI had provided clear
information, I intend to find that its fair and reasonable for EUI to reimburse Mr F the £1,350
hes been charged by the breakdown service, minus the amount he would have paid the
additional breakdown cover. If Mr F has paid this, EUI should add interest to that amount at
a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date Mr F paid the recovery costs to the date it makes
payment.
Neither EUI nor Mr F responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither EUI nor Mr F responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint and 
require EUI Limited to reimburse Mr F £1,350 (minus what he would have paid for the 
additional breakdown cover) for the breakdown costs, plus interest on that amount at a rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date he paid the recovery costs to the date it makes 
payment.
If EUI Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman