DRN-4424543
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains about the problems it faced trying to open bank accounts 
with Clydesdale bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Es complaint is brought by Mrs B, a director of E.
What happened
E offers a professional service that requires it to open different client accounts with Virgin 
Money. In 2022, E complained to Virgin Money about delays and a lack of communication 
when opening client accounts. E was also unhappy about some of the account opening 
process. 
After considering Es complaint, Virgin Money apologised and offered £400 compensation. 
Virgin Money also sent E an online banking form to help streamline the account opening 
process.
E didnt accept Virgin Moneys offer as it didnt reflect the time taken opening client accounts 
over many years. E also asked Virgin Money to give team members mobile and web based 
access to the accounts. 
E tried to open another client account in early 2023 but didnt hear back from Virgin Money 
despite sending several emails.  Mrs B complained to Virgin Money and it apologised for the 
backlog in account applications. Virgin Money said there had also been a delay in the 
accounts being available on the app but that E should now have access to them. Virgin 
Money paid E £200 to apologise for the inconvenience caused by the delays. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Es complaint in the sense that he thought 
Virgin Money had offered and done enough to put things right.
Mrs B is unhappy with the investigation outcome. She asks when the £600 was paid or 
whether its due to be paid. Mrs B doesnt think that Virgin Money has provided a reasonable 
client account opening process so E has decided to move to a different bank. Mrs B says 
that the client accounts which E requires are unique and that the account link our 
investigator provided is not suitable for E. 
Mrs B says that the focus of Es complaint is not just about securing compensation but 
requiring Virgin Money to have a more straightforward process in place for opening client 
accounts for Es specific business needs.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I appreciate Mrs Bs wish to get Virgin Money to improve on the processes that it uses when 
opening client accounts for regulated businesses such as E. But its not the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to tell Virgin Money how to run its business  it would be for 
the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  to make decisions about the way in which 
Virgin Moneys policies and procedures are carried out. My decision is limited to whether 
Virgin Money has treated E unfairly, and if so, whether its already done or offered enough to 
put things right. 
I dont doubt that Mrs B has spent considerable time chasing the opening of Es client 
accounts. But this service doesnt generally award compensation on an hourly or daily rate. 
Instead, I make my award based on the impact the mistake had on E as a limited company.
I appreciate Mrs B says the problems E has faced with Virgin Money are longstanding but for 
the purpose of deciding whether Virgin Money has done enough to put things right  I have 
looked at the complaints Virgin Money dealt with its final response letters of December 2022 
and February 2023. If E can point to any other specific instances of delays when opening 
client accounts, Virgin Money has said that it will consider this information. I consider this to 
be fair and leave it with E to decide whether to do so.
For the failings in 2022 and 2023, I consider Virgin Moneys apologies, together with its 
attempts to put things in place to prevent future delays and its offer to pay a total of £600 
compensation is fair. 
An award of compensation totalling £600 is towards the top end of an award this service 
might make where the businesss mistake has caused significant inconvenience and the 
impact has lasted over weeks or months. 
Although in Es complaint it mentions the possibility of fines being applied by its regulator if 
accounts are not opened in time, I dont think this has actually happened. As I dont have 
evidence to show that E has lost out financially in other ways, I consider £600 is fair 
compensation. 
My understanding is that Virgin Money has already paid E £200  so if E accepts my 
decision, it will need to pay the remaining £400 that it previously offered.
My final decision
Virgin Money has already paid £200 and made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that Clydesdale bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay E £400 
if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman