DRN-3264572
The complaint
Mr M has complained about TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED reporting an 
account as outstanding that was settled in an insolvency.
What happened
Following his discharge from an insolvency, Mr Ms accounts were marked as settled, except 
for an account ending -907, which continued to show as open and active on his credit file 
despite being included in the insolvency.
Mr M contacted the three credit reference agencies. Two of them updated his file to no 
longer show this account as being open. But TransUnion did not.
TransUnion raised disputes with the lender, who said they thought they werent even 
reporting this account. TransUnion felt this meant the account was reporting correctly. They 
told Mr M to deal with it himself as they felt theyd done what they had to.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They didnt think 
TransUnion had been helpful. They pointed out that the lender had effectively said that the 
account shouldnt still be reporting. They recommended that TransUnion take the needed 
steps to get the entry corrected on Mr Ms file, and pay him £200 compensation.
TransUnion didnt agree. They claimed that the lender later told them the account was still 
outstanding, though TransUnion didnt provide any evidence of this even when pressed. 
They felt theyd done the minimum they were required to and shouldnt be expected to do 
anything more.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, this complaint is about the account ending -907. From what both sides have 
shown us, TransUnion have been incorrectly reporting that account as open and active 
despite Mr Ms completed insolvency. I am aware that there was another account with the 
same lender ending -245, which was marked as settled. This complaint is about -907.
I dont agree with TransUnion that it is enough for them to only do the bare minimum. They 
should still be treating customers fairly, which often means doing more than just the bare 
minimum. And in any case, I dont think they really did what they were supposed to here.
From what TransUnion have given us, the lender did not confirm that the data as it stands is 
accurate. In fact, they effectively did the opposite. The lender said they thought they werent 
even reporting that account at all. So given that it was still showing as open and active, and 
given that the lender seemed to think it shouldnt be showing at all, and given that 
TransUnion had confirmation of Mr Ms successful discharge from insolvency, it should have 
been very clear to TransUnion that the entry was incorrect. And so TransUnion should have 
followed up on that instead of just telling Mr M to sort it out himself.
It was clearly unreasonable that TransUnion interpreted the lenders response to mean that 
the entry was correct. It also led to unnecessary confusion and frustration, as their final 
response to Mr M was then rather nonsensical in places.
TransUnion now say they got a later response from the lender, saying that the account was 
indeed outstanding. But they never mentioned this before, and its not in the record of the 
disputes that they sent us. And theyve declined to provide any evidence of this later 
response, despite multiple requests. It also seems unlikely the lender said this given what 
they said before, given that as far as I can see this account would have been dealt with in 
the insolvency, and given that I understand the other two credit reference agencies corrected 
their entries with no trouble. So I put no weight on this new allegation.
It seems clear that TransUnion gave Mr M some really poor service here. They need to put 
that right. That will involve them working with the lender to correct their entry. It also means 
they should pay compensation, to acknowledge their errors and the impact they had.
In terms of the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine 
or punish businesses. And while I understand Mr M had some trouble getting credit, Ive not 
seen anything to indicate it was mainly due to this account. Indeed, his recent insolvency 
would tend to be a much more significant factor.
But its likely that TransUnions failure to help correct the error had some negative impact on 
Mr Ms file, and I can certainly see that theyve caused him unfair trouble and upset while 
hes tried to sort things out. So I agree with our investigator that £200 compensation is fair.
Putting things right
I direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to:
Get the entry for account ending -907 corrected; and-
Pay Mr M £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct TRANSUNION 
INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman