DRN-4382960
The complaint
Ms Y complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs handling of her personal information 
and her insurance policies and claims.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. Ms Y and Tesco can be assured that I have read and carefully considered all 
the information we have on file.
Ms Y has home insurance which was arranged and administered by Tesco. The policy is 
underwritten by an insurer, not Tesco. Tesco are a broker and administrator not an 
underwriter.
She made a complaint to Tesco in 2023. She said Tesco had:
misinformed her about the legal protection cover on her policy;
inappropriately provided her personal data to third parties;
failed to provide information to another third party;
treated her unfairly on the basis of her race and/or gender;
failed to address a conflict of interest arising for one of the companies providing the 
legal protection cover on her policy;
failed to make a note of her vulnerabilities on their systems; and
failed to allow her to speak to someone qualified to discuss her vulnerabilities. 
When Tesco didnt uphold her complaint. Ms Y brought it to us. Our investigator looked into 
it and didnt think Tesco has done anything wrong.
Ms Y disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Im considering in this decision is the complaint made against Tesco by Ms Y in 2023. 
She has made previous complaints, in 2021 and 2022. 
I cant consider the issues raised in those earlier complaints because Ms Y did not refer 
them to our service within six months of receiving Tescos final response, as required under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (or DISP) rules - which govern how our 
service operates.
The issue about Tesco misinforming Ms Y about the legal protection cover on her policy was 
raised and addressed as part of those earlier complaints. So, thats not something Im going 
to consider here.
I should also be clear that I can only consider in this decision Ms Ys complaints about 
Tesco. She has made other complaints about financially regulated businesses. I cant look at 
those here.
Ms Y has also made wide-ranging allegations to us about businesses and/or public 
organisations which are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority because they dont 
provide financial services. Obviously, I cant address those issues here either.
Ill deal with the points raised in this particular complaint in order below.
Alleged data breaches
Ms Ys complaint appears to be that Tesco shared information with the underwriter of her 
policy.
As a broker and administrator, thats what Tesco will do. And that was made absolutely clear 
to Ms Y when she purchased the policy. 
Tesco have not acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in providing her details to the 
underwriter.
Alleged failure to provide information to a third party
Ms Y appears to have asked Tesco to refer her claim and/or complaints to a public body 
involved in resolving complaints involving the NHS. 
Not unreasonably, Tesco have said that would be an inappropriate use of the personal data 
they hold about Ms Y.
Alleged discrimination and unfair treatment
Ms Y says Tesco have discriminated against her on the grounds of race and/or gender. 
She hasnt explained in any detail how or why she thinks Tesco have done this. But she has 
suggested Tesco have carried out  or colluded with others in  fraud, money-laundering, 
abuse (of Ms Y), racism, misogyny and human trafficking, amongst other things.
It's important that any allegations of discrimination are treated seriously and investigated 
properly. Tesco have done that when those allegations were made to them about their own 
staff. 
Im satisfied there is absolutely no evidence to suggest Tesco or any of their staff have 
discriminated against Ms Y because of her race and/or gender or treated her in any way 
unfairly.
Alleged failure to address a conflict of interest
Ms Y thinks the underwriter shouldnt use a third party when providing the legal cover under 
her policy. This appears to be because a person she knows works for a company associated 
with that third party.That would be a matter for the underwriter and not Tesco, who are - as I say above  acting 
here as a broker and administrator.
Alleged failure to record Ms Ys vulnerabilities appropriately 
Ms Y tells us she has health issues which make her vulnerable. Shes right to say that 
businesses who provide financial services to her, including Tesco, might record that 
information so that they can provide those services more effectively and treat her fairly.
The evidence we have suggests that when Ms Y advised Tesco about her health issues, 
they asked her permission to make an appropriate record on their systems. Ms Y didnt 
respond and didnt give her consent for Tesco to record that very sensitive personal 
information about her. 
I can also see that when Tesco responded to Ms Ys complaints, they repeated the offer to 
make a note on their systems subject to Ms Ys consent.
I cant reasonably conclude that Tesco have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably here. 
They were more than willing to record the relevant information about Ms Y on their systems 
and  as they should  asked her permission to do so.
Alleged failure to allow Ms Y to talk to someone qualified about her vulnerabilities
The evidence we have suggests that when Ms Y made that request to them, Tesco arranged 
for an appropriate member of their staff to call her. When the call was made, Ms Y refused to 
speak to that individual.
Again, its impossible for me to conclude that Tesco acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way they responded to Ms Ys request.
Summary 
I can see no evidence at all to suggest that Tesco have treated Ms Y unfairly. The available 
evidence suggests theyve handled her calls, queries and complaints politely, professionally 
and with understanding. And that theyve handled her personal data entirely appropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman