DRN-1575073
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) havent made it clear when their daily 
cut-off time is for bringing his account back into credit to avoid being charged fees.  
 What happened
Mr W has a 123 lite current account with Santander. His son, on his behalf, complained to 
Santander, as he said he hadnt been given an exact cut-off time to bring his account into 
credit each day, despite asking a number of times. He said most other banks have a cut-off 
time of Midnight. He said he was told the cut-off time wouldnt be before 4pm, but he 
believes this is too vague. Mr W had already been charged some unexpected charges so 
was keen for this not to happen again. He wanted Santander to provide a definitive cut-off 
time, compensation for the time spent dealing with this complaint and a refund of all 
overdraft charges that have been applied to his account.
Santander confirmed that the cut-off time was 4pm. They also said fees incurred for using 
the arranged overdraft had been applied correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. They did however, agree to refund some of the fees.
Mr W wasnt happy with this. He thinks there are further fees that should be refunded and he 
wants compensation, so his son brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
at the complaint but didnt think that Santander needed to do anything further. Mr W didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
Ive had a look at the terms and conditions for the account and they say: 
We allow you time to manage your account so, if you should use an Arranged or 
Unarranged Overdraft, you will have until 4pm that day (Monday to Saturday) to credit your 
account with cleared funds and move your balance back to an Arranged Overdraft or credit 
position.
I therefore think Santander have stated when the cut-off time is. Having looked at the 
communication from Santander to Mr W and his son, again I think they have made this clear. 
Mr W says he tends to carry out a lot of his transactions in the afternoon and evening, so I 
understand why its important to him to have a cut-off time. However, while it is unfortunate 
that Mr W may not be able to manage his account in the way he would like to, based on a 
4pm cut off time, I think Santander are entitled to decide when their cut-off time is. And I 
think they have made it clear in both the terms and conditions and their communication with Mr W that the account has to be in credit between 4pm and Midnight, if Mr W doesnt want to 
incur overdraft fees. 
I can see that although Mr W didnt repay his overdrawn balance on a number of occasions 
by the relevant cut-of time, Santander did refund all the fees charged between the period of 
November 2017 and January 2019. They also agreed to waive a fee due to be charged in 
February 2019. I think this was a fair thing to do in the circumstances. Santander isnt 
required to reimburse any further charges.
I am aware that Mr Ws son raised a similar complaint with Santander in connection with his 
own account around the time he complained on behalf of his father. And for that he was 
awarded £100 for the trouble and upset he was caused. However, we have to look at 
complaints on their own individual merits. Just because Mr Ws son received an award for 
trouble and upset, doesnt mean that Mr W should in the individual circumstances of this 
case. 
Mr Ws son also says that other banks have a cut off time of Midnight. But we cant comment 
on the practices of other banks as the complaint here is against Santander. And because 
this service doesnt regulate banks, I cant ask Santander to change its cut-off time or the 
way it charges for use of an overdraft. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sarah Green
Ombudsman