DRN-3083746
The complaint
Mr A complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) sold him a car of 
unsatisfactory quality. He asked to return the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion of 31 July 2021, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on 
giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr A, Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand Mr A has raised an additional complaint with VWFS regarding the 
service history of the car. I cant see that VWFS has had the opportunity to responded to that 
complaint and as such it doesnt form part of my decision here. If Mr A remains dissatisfied 
with the outcome of this secondary complaint, he will still be able to bring it to this service.
For clarity, I have considered the information provided in Mr As complaint form dated 27 
April 2021 concerning the quality of the car he purchased form VWFS.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and mileage of 
the car and the price paid. At the point the car was supplied to Mr A, it was just over four 
years old and had completed 65,950 miles. So, I think its fair to say it would be expected
that the car would have reasonable wear and tear at this point and would possibly have parts
that need replacement.
Under the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, 
theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportune ty to 
repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality.
I can see that Mr A identified an issue with the brake pads and discs within a few days of 
acquiring the car, he brought this to the attention of the dealership who rectified the problem. 
I agree with the investigator that these are a wear and tear item and its poor that this sort of 
repair would be needed within a couple of days of purchase. But as the dealership carried 
out the repair on 14 May 2019, at no cost to Mr A and he accepted the repair, I think the 
remedy carried out was fair and reasonable.
On 29 September 2019, Mr A had a health check carried out on the car. It identified:
Additional maintenance which states coolant discoloured suspect coolant bottle flush and 
heater matrix required to rectify.
This was marked as an amber warning but theres no information in the file to show this was 
raised with VWFS until much later. At this point the car had travelled over 75,000 miles and 
so this sort of issue isnt unusual. In my view, if Mr A had been concerned at the time, he 
would have raised it, as he did with the brake pads.
The issue with the cambelt arose after Mr A had travelled a further 20,000 miles and hed 
had the car for around 18 months. I appreciate this can be a costly repair for a car but Im 
afraid I cant say there is any evidence to suggest this fault was present at the point of sale. 
As the investigator has said the finance provider isnt responsible for faults that develop 
throughout the lifetime of the car. So, whilst I understand Mt A will be disappointed, nothing 
Ive seen suggests that the faults were there when the car was sold. Rather they seem to be 
the types of faults that will naturally develop when a car is driven over a period of time and 
so I have no proper basis to say he can return the car.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman