DRN-2750128
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc are holding him liable for credit card 
transactions that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In November 2019 Mr H was working as a driver and 
one morning was making a delivery in the early hours. He says he was contacted by other 
banks who he held accounts with and asked about recent activity on his accounts. This 
made him realise that his wallet, containing his cards (amongst other possessions) had been 
taken from the cab of his vehicle.
Mr H notified Capital One of the theft but by this time there had been two cash machine 
(ATM) withdrawals totalling £250. Capital One initially refunded these to Mr Hs account. But 
following their investigation, they re-debited his account. Capital One said that Mr H had told 
them that he hadnt shared or written his PIN down anywhere. But as the ATM withdrawals 
involved the correct PIN being entered first time, they couldnt explain how someone other 
than Mr H could have made the withdrawals. 
Mr H complained, he pointed out that the providers of his other cards hadnt held him liable. 
When Capital One maintained their position, the complaint was referred to our service. One 
of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, she didnt 
think Capital One had reached an unfair conclusion in holding Mr H liable. Mr H insists that 
he didnt make the withdrawals and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. I understand Mr Hs 
strength of feeling on this matter and I know this will come as a disappointment, so Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, as I wasnt present at the time the disputed withdrawals took place I cant know for 
certain what happened. So in cases like this I have to make my findings on the balance of 
probability  I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on all the 
available evidence. 
Customers arent usually liable for unauthorised transactions. So in this case what I need to 
decide is whether its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the transactions he disputes. 
Im satisfied by the evidence Capital One have provided that Mr Hs genuine card was used 
and that the correct PIN was entered for each of the two withdrawals that were made. 
Mr H says his card had been stolen which explains how another person could have had it. 
Hes provided evidence to support that he has also reported this to the police. But whoever 
made the withdrawals needed both the card and the PIN. Mr H hasnt been able to explain 
how an unknown third party would have known his PIN.
I asked Mr H to tell me how he remembered his PIN and whether it was a number of any 
significance (without disclosing what it actually was). He explained that it was a number that 
he could easily remember as part of it involved memorable information from his childhood. 
Mr H also maintains that his PIN wasnt written down, and his explanation about how he 
remembered it would support that that wouldnt seem to be something he would have 
needed to do.
Further to this Mr H also kindly shared a comprehensive list of the other items that were 
stolen from him at the same time as his wallet and cards. But I cant see a way of how the 
thief would have been able to identify the PIN number from any of Mr Hs other possessions 
that they took. 
The evidence from Capital One shows that there werent any incorrect PIN attempts. So, I 
think its extremely unlikely that a thief could have correctly guessed Mr Hs PIN on the first 
attempt. The circumstances of the evening in question also dont support that a third party 
would have had any opportunity to shoulder surf Mr H. By that I mean observe Mr H enter 
his PIN whilst making a recent transaction prior to stealing the card(s). Mr H hadnt used his 
Capital One card for some time and he has also told us he hadnt recently used any of his 
other cards from other providers. He was also working alone, so there was no opportunity for 
a colleague to have been responsible who might have seen him enter his PIN on a previous 
occasion.  
Overall, there is no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party could have known 
Mr Hs PIN to enable them to withdraw cash with his Capital One card. And in the absence 
of such a possibility Im afraid I cant solely rely on Mr Hs testimony to uphold this complaint. 
I must also consider the technical evidence which is conclusive that the PIN was used (as is 
common to nearly all ATM withdrawals). And in these circumstances, I dont think Capital 
Ones decision to hold him liable for the disputed transactions was unfair. I think its more 
likely than not that Mr H authorised the transactions he disputes as I cant see any way 
another person could have had knowledge of the PIN which was required to make them.
Mr H has also highlighted that other banks contacted him to alert him to activity on his 
accounts and that Capital One didnt. Ive considered this, but I dont think this means that 
Capital Ones decision on liability was unfair. Even if Capital One ought to have stopped the 
withdrawals and contacted Mr H (which for clarity, Im not saying they should), I dont think 
this would have made a difference. This is because of my above conclusion that, on 
balance, Mr H authorised the withdrawals. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman