DRN-3672745
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a conditional sale agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was 
mis-sold to him.
What happened
On 7 August 2018, Mr F was supplied with a used commercial vehicle through a conditional 
sale agreement with Santander. There was an advance payment of £1,000 and the 
agreement was for £23,995 over 60 months; with monthly payments of £519.89. Mr F has 
said that he believed the agreement was taken out in the name of his then employer, whom 
Ill refer to as Company A.
Company A made payments to the agreement until October 2019, when the direct debit was 
cancelled. This resulted in the account falling into arrears, a default being issued, and the 
agreement being terminated in July 2020. Santander attempted to repossess the vehicle but 
have been unable to do so  they were told the vehicle had been stripped and sold.
Mr F complained to Santander that he was mis-sold the agreement as it shouldve been in 
the name of Company A. And, if it was taken out in his personal name, then Santander failed 
to carry out proper affordability checks, as he couldnt afford the payments.
Santander said the agreement had been taken out in Mr Fs name, and not that of Company 
A. So, Mr F was responsible for the payments. And they thought theyd carried out 
reasonable checks, which showed that the finance was affordable. Mr F wasnt happy with 
Santanders response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement was in Mr Fs personal name, and at his personal 
address. Mr F had also provided his identification and the original direct debit mandate was 
completed with Mr Fs personal bank details. And, when the direct debit was later amended 
to show Company As bank details, Mr F signed to enact this change. In addition to this, the 
V5C document was in Mr Fs name, not that of Company A.
The investigator also said that Company A were making the payments to the agreement until 
the direct debit was cancelled. At which point, Company A asked if the agreement could be 
transferred into their name. But Santander werent able to do this.
Given this, the investigator said she was satisfied that Mr F was aware the agreement was 
taken out in his personal name. So, she didnt think the agreement had been mis-sold.
However, the investigator didnt think Santander had done sufficient checks when they 
approved the agreement. And she said that, had Santander done these checks, then they 
wouldve seen that the agreement wasnt affordable. 
The investigator thought it was Mr Fs responsibility to take care of the vehicle, and hand it 
back to Santander when the agreement was terminated. And, because he didnt do this, the 
investigator thought he had some responsibility for the situation he found himself in.
Because the vehicle can no longer be handed back to Santander, the investigator said the 
fairest way to resolve the complaint is for Mr F to be responsible for half of the cost - 
£12,497.50. And, because hed already paid £6,693.79, he would still have another 
£5,803.71 left to pay.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. They said they were entitled to rely on the 
information Mr F had provided, and further employment checks and bank account checks in 
circumstances such as this would have been disproportionate and undermined the entire 
sales process. And, by signing the agreement, Mr F acknowledged the agreement was 
affordable to him.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2022, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
mis-sale 
When considering if a sale was misrepresented, Im looking at two things  whether there 
was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that 
induced Mr F to choose the vehicle.
Ive seen that the agreement was in Mr Fs sole name, and the address on the agreement 
was his home address. Theres no mention of Company A on the agreement. Mr F also 
signed the agreement as an individual, and not as a representative of Company A. The 
direct debit for the agreement originally contained Mr Fs bank details, but Mr F signed to 
change these to those of Company A.
Whats more, Ive not seen anything to show me that Mr F was a director of Company A. 
Although he has confirmed that his father (who shares the same name) was a director. But 
Ive not seen anything to show me that the agreement shouldve been in Mr Fs fathers 
name, instead of Mr Fs name.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the agreement was in Mr Fs name. And, while Mr F 
mayve used the vehicle for his work with Company A, Company A had no legal ownership 
of the vehicle. In signing the agreement, Mr F was confirming that he read and agreed with 
the terms. Which included in whose name the agreement was, and their responsibilities.
As such, Im satisfied there was no false statement of fact. And, as there was no false 
statement of fact, the agreement wasnt misrepresented.
affordability
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
F would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Santander make a fair lending decision?b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Fs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form Santander considered. This states that Mr F was 
single, a tenant, and employed for five years as a driver with a company that wasnt 
Company A. Ive also noted that Mr F says hes never worked for this company.
Santander have provided a copy of the credit check they did at the time. This shows Mr F 
had a default 65 months earlier, that he owed a total of £18,800 on nine separate financial 
agreements, and that he paid £491 a month for these.
While I appreciate that Santander have said the credit check didnt give them any cause for 
concern, and Mr Fs application passed their process, Im not satisfied that this was enough. 
Santander didnt ask any questions about Mr Fs income or any other expenditure. As such, 
they werent able to see whether their payment (which was more than the total on Mr Fs 
other credit commitments combined) was affordable, or if this affordability was sustainable.
Given this, Im not satisfied that the checks that were done were either reasonable or 
proportionate.
Would any additional checks Santander couldve done have shown that Mr F could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Because Santander havent carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on 
to consider what they wouldve seen if these checks had been carried out. 
Mr F has provided copies of his bank statements for 18 April to 18 August 2018  the period 
immediately before the finance was taken out. As well as a credit search, I also wouldve 
expected Santander to have carried out some form of income and affordability check. And, 
while I wouldnt have expected Santander to have asked Mr F for copies of his bank 
statements, Im satisfied that these statements give a good indication of what Santander 
would likely have taken into consideration.
The bank statements show that Mr F received a £1,740 monthly salary from Company A. 
They also show that his fixed standing orders, direct debits, and credit commitments totalled 
£1,004.12 a month. Santanders payment was £519.89, so this would only leave Mr F with 
£215.99 a month to pay for food, housing, clothing, the costs of running the vehicle supplied 
to him, and any other discretionary expenses. And the bank statements also show that Mr F 
was paying an average of £110 a month in tuition fees as part of these discretionary 
expenses.
Given the above Im satisfied that, had Santander carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, they wouldve found that this finance wasnt affordable for Mr F. However, Mr F has made it clear that it was never his intention to make the payments from 
his personal funds  they were always going to be made by Company A. Which is why the 
direct debit was amended to take the payments from Company As account. Whats more, 
Mr F changed the address on the V5C document to that of Company A.
Given this, and the particular circumstances of this case, I think its reasonable for me to 
consider the overall affordability of this agreement, and not just that of Mr F as an individual. 
And, if Santander had been made aware of these circumstances at the outset, then they 
wouldve considered whether the agreement was affordable for Company A, and not Mr F.
I havent seen anything to show me that Company A werent able to afford the payments, 
and they maintained these until October 2019. Mr F has confirmed that Company A only 
stopped paying because the vehicle was off the road so they werent making any money off 
it. Hes also confirmed that the vehicle has since disappeared while it was at the garage.
As such, Im satisfied that, had Santander carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, 
its more likely than not they wouldve found Company A wouldve been able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way. And the fact that Company A chose not to continue paying for 
commercial reasons doesnt alter this.
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
In a situation like this, Id normally ask Mr F to return the vehicle to Santander. But, in this 
instance, he no longer has the vehicle, and it cant be returned.
In signing the agreement, Mr F agreed hed be responsible for any loss or damage of the 
goods except through fair wear and tear. He also agreed to keep the goods in your 
possession and under your control. Finally, Mr F agreed that he would insure the goods on 
a continuous and uninterrupted basis  against claims for injury, loss or damage.
Mr F has confirmed that, even after he stopped working for Company A, they continued to 
use the vehicle. So, by leaving the vehicle with Company A after hed left their employment, 
Mr F was in breach of the agreement to keep the vehicle in his possession. Whats more, as 
far as I can tell, he failed to continue to insure the vehicle after hed left Company A, so when 
it disappeared he was unable to make a claim for this. And I havent seen anything to show 
me that Mr F ever reported this disappearance to the police.
Given all of this, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, Im 
satisfied that hes responsible for the outstanding amount owing to Santander.
Responses
Mr F commented that he didnt think Santander, and their intermediary, acted fairly as they 
didnt clearly explain the details of the loan, and that a creditworthiness check wouldnt have 
been needed if theyd believed the loan and vehicle were to be in his name.
Mr F also explained in detail why he thought it was clear that the vehicle was being financed 
for Company A, even though he signed the documents. And hes said that no explanation 
was provided as to why the finance was being taken out in his name. And, if hed understood 
this was the case, he wouldnt have gone through with the agreement.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision I said that, had it been made clear to Santander that although the loan and 
vehicle were to be in Mr Fs name the payment were to be made by Company A; then I 
wouldve expected Santander to consider whether the payments were affordable to 
Company A. And I consider this fundamentally different to Mr Fs interpretation that, had 
Santander believed the loan and vehicle were to be in his name, then they didnt need to 
carry out any checks.
This wouldnt be the case, and if the loan was in Mr Fs name, then Santander shouldve 
considered his affordability. The only circumstance where Id expect Santander to do 
anything different would be in the circumstances described  where Mr F made it clear to 
Santander that Company A were making the payments. But, as Ive seen nothing to show 
me that he did this, Im satisfied that Santander acted reasonably by carrying out the 
necessary affordability checks.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, the agreement was in Mr Fs sole name, and the 
address on the agreement was his home address. Theres no mention of Company A on the 
agreement. Mr F also signed the agreement as an individual, and not as a representative of 
Company A. The direct debit for the agreement originally contained Mr Fs bank details.
Because of this, I wouldnt expect Santander to explain that the agreement was in Mr Fs 
name, as everything that was submitted and signed by him made this clear. I appreciate 
that, from the information hed been given by Company A, that Mr F may not have 
understood the agreement was in his sole name, but this is a complaint he has against what 
Company A told him. And its not something Santander are responsible for.
So, for the reasons stated above, my view remains unaltered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman