DRN-2942719
The complaint
Mr L complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr L was provided with a £200 loan by MoneyBoat in March 2018. The loan was repayable 
through four monthly instalments.
Mr L says that adequate affordability and credit worthiness checks werent carried out before 
the lending was provided. He also says that MoneyBoat should have been aware that he 
was a vulnerable consumer and acted accordingly.
MoneyBoat says that before the loan was provided it carried out affordability and credit 
checks. It says Mr Ls income was verified and that based on its checks the loan repayments 
were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought adequate checks had been carried 
out and as these suggested the loan was affordable he didnt think MoneyBoat had done 
anything wrong by providing the loan.
Mr L didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said more thorough checks should have been 
carried out and had this happened MoneyBoat would have realised the loan wasnt 
affordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr L was provided with only one loan by MoneyBoat. Given the size of the loan 
provided and the repayment amounts compared to Mr Ls declared salary of £1,470, I 
thought checking Mr Ls income and expenses and carrying out a credit check was 
reasonable. 
The credit check contained some adverse information about the status of Mr Ls 
accounts, but I didnt think that this alone was enough to say the loan shouldnt have 
been provided. 
However, the credit commitments listed on the credit report showed a higher 
payment amount than included in Mr Ls expenses. As this information was available 
to MoneyBoat I thought it reasonable that it would have been factored into the 
assessment. Had this happened I found that Mr L would have only had a disposable 
income before the loan repayment of £74. As the loan repayments were £72 and 
needed to be maintained over four months, I didnt think this was loan should have 
been considered sustainably affordable for Mr L and so I upheld this complaint.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision and my conclusions 
were accepted on Mr Ls behalf. Given this my conclusions havent changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the information gathered by MoneyBoat before 
the loan was provided showed that making the loan repayments would leave Mr L with next 
to no disposable income. Given he was required to make these payments over a four month 
period, I dont think this lending should have been considered sustainably affordable. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr L.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I do not find that the loan should have been provided, I find that MoneyBoat should now:
waive any outstanding interest on the loan and charges and treat all repayments 
made as though they were repayments of capital;
the loan statement provided suggests this will result in Mr L overpaying. All 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr L along with interest of 8% simple a year 
from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement*;
any adverse information regarding this loan should be removed from Mr L's credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman