DRN-3679843
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (First Direct), wont refund
payments that were made when he fell victim to a safe account bank impersonation scam.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr K fell victim to a cruel scam, in which he was tricked into believing he
needed to move the funds in his First Direct accounts to a safe account.
Hes told us he received a text message purporting to be from First Direct. This informed him
of suspicious activity on his account and that the account had temporarily been blocked. The
text message said a member of the fraud team would contact him shortly and a reference
number was provided.
Shortly after the text message, Mr K received a call from someone claiming to be from
First Directs fraud team. Unbeknown to him at the time, this was not genuinely a call
originating from his bank, but instead he was speaking to a scammer.
Mr K moved money from his savings account with First Direct into his First Direct current
account. He then proceeded to make two payments  the first for £600 and a second
payment of £5,000 from his current account to the account details he was given by the
scammers.
To make the initial payment, Mr K set up a new payee. At the time of setting up the payment,
a Confirmation of Payee (CoP) result was given. In brief, it said the payee account details
are invalid. It said it cant check the details Mr K had entered with their bank and to check
with the payee directly.
Mr K recalls a CoP pop up but has said he didnt read this as he was told by the scammer
what to press.
Mr K has explained the scammer talked him through making the payments step by step.
Mr K selected the payment purpose as friends and family when making the payments and 
was shown a scam warning. In summary, this warned that fraudsters might call to ask you to
move money to a safe account. It says neither First Direct or any genuine organisation would
ever ask to do this, but criminals will. It goes on to say fraudsters can pose as a friend or try
to get to know you through social media or dating sites, then ask for money.
First Direct have also said that before Mr K confirmed the payments, he was given a warning
which said criminals pretend to be people you trust, like the police or even First Direct. It said
if an unexpected request to make a payment had been received, to stop and contact the
party using their contact details from a trusted source. It also said that First Direct will never
ask you to move money.
Mr K has told us that when going through the stages of making the payments he didnt read
the information - that it was more a case of looking out for the buttons he was being directed
to select.
When the scammers asked Mr K to make a further payment of £4,000 to a second set of
account details, Mr K says his girlfriends mother, who works in banking, overheard what
was happening and hung up the call. It was at this point Mr K became aware hed been
scammed.
First Direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
When Mr K reported what had happened, First Direct contacted the receiving bank.
Unfortunately, only £4.17 could be recovered. First Direct didnt think it was liable to refund
Mr K his remaining losses.
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome and he complained to First Direct. It maintained its
position. First Direct said it had given Mr K scam warnings when he sent the payments. It
said he didnt carry out sufficient checks to be sure who he was speaking to and so should
have exercised more caution. Therefore, it didnt think it was liable to reimburse Mr K under
the CRM Code.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into things. He believed the complaint should be upheld. He
didnt find that the warnings First Direct had given fully met the requirements of an effective
warning under the CRM Code definition. So First Direct hadnt established that Mr K had
ignored an effective warning. Our investigator also felt that when Mr K had made the
payments, hed held a reasonable basis for believing that the payments were necessary to
safeguard the security of his bank accounts.
First Direct disagreed. In summary, it reiterated its position that it had given Mr K effective
warnings. It added that as it considered Mr K had ignored effective warnings, an exception to
reimbursement could be applied and, therefore, whether or not Mr K had a reasonable basis
for belief was not relevant. However, First Direct said one of the warnings given stated that it
would never ask a customer to move money, but criminals would. To compound matters it
says it was a clearly significant red flag that Mr K was being told to ignore warnings and, the
fact he chose to ignore the warnings was unreasonable in itself. It follows that First Direct
considers any belief Mr K had that the payments were legitimate was not reasonable.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 August 2022. In it, I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. An extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of 
this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I currently intend to uphold this complaint in part. I will now explain 
why.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr K. I can understand entirely 
why he feels strongly that the full loss should be reimbursed by First Direct, and why 
he doesnt accept its fair the bank isnt taking responsibility.However, while I have sympathy for Mr K in what happened, I have to recognise that 
the principal cause of his losses here were the scammers who deceived him. I must 
also take into account that First Direct has a primary obligation to carry out the 
payment instructions its customers give it.
The starting point in law is that Mr K is presumed liable for any transactions on his 
account that he authorises. He did authorise all the payments that are the subject of 
this complaint, even though he did so as a result of a scam.
But thats not the end of the story. First Direct is signed up to the CRM Code and so 
ought to refund victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
Despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a 
firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as 
the exceptions to reimbursement). Relevant here, this would include ignoring an 
effective warning by not taking the appropriate steps in response. It could also 
include where the customer made a payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, or that the payee was 
the person the customer was expecting to pay.
First Direct has said that one or more of these exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
Mr Ks case. And I currently agree that is the case, which is why Im reaching a 
different outcome to that of our Investigator.
Did Mr K meet the requisite level of care required of a customer under the CRM 
Code?
Ive first thought about whether Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when he made 
each payment.
I consider that several elements of the scam were convincing, including the banks 
spoofed phone number, the reference number provided, which matched the text 
message Mr K had received from who he believed to be First Directs Anti-Fraud 
department and, the scammer knowing his personal information (such as Mr Ks 
email address).
However, Mr K has also said that he was sceptical and suspicious of the call. Mr K 
within his contact with our Investigator said that due to his scepticism at the time of 
the first payment he told the scammer that he didnt fully trust this, and even after 
checking the number online and seeing it was a number for First Direct, he still had 
some doubts. Because of these doubts hes explained to our investigator that he 
made an initial payment for a lower sum than that requested by the caller - £600 
instead of £6,000.
From the information Ive been given, I have noted inconsistencies within what Mr K 
has said to the bank and to our service. In calls with the bank when discussing the 
scam, Mr K referred to making a mistake and missing a 0 when making the initial 
payment but then to our Investigator hes said he purposefully sent a lesser amount 
to that requested due to being sceptical about it.
During a call with the bank, Im also mindful Mr K said that he was asked by the 
scammer who he banked with and he explained that he didnt give the honest answer 
and in fact told the scammer he banked with a different bank. He also told the bank that when he was given the second account details to make a further payment to, he 
searched this online and thats when he saw it was for a different bank and not First 
Direct. He told the bank he hung up at this point and called to report the scam. Yet 
this isnt consistent with what he explained to our Investigator, where hes said the 
call ended when his girlfriends mother hung up the phone and, it was afterwards that 
he found out the account details were for another bank.
Based on everything Ive seen and been told, it appears Mr K made a conscious 
decision not to pay the amount he was asked to by the scammer, who was purporting 
to be from his bank, given the doubts he had at the time. I dont currently think I can 
safely say Mr K was convinced by what hed been told at the time of the initial 
payment as given the nature of his actions, it suggests that due to his doubts he 
looked to mitigate any possible loss in case all was not quite as it seemed.
I do recognise Mr K has said when making the £5,000 payment, given the length of 
time hed been on the phone, whilst he was sceptical, he was convinced by things 
along the way  by the way the scammer spoke to him, what he was being told and 
what he needed to do. Mr K says the scammer knew what would appear and what to 
press/select. He felts things started to ring true in terms of this being how things 
worked.
While Ive thought carefully about what Mr K has said, I cant ignore the 
inconsistencies in what hes told the bank and our service. And because of these 
inconsistencies Im not convinced I can safely say that Mr K was under the spell of 
the scammer and that he believed he was speaking with his genuine bank at the time 
of making the payments.
On balance, given such doubts, Im persuaded it wouldve been more reasonable for 
Mr K to pick up on other red flags. For example, there was an attempt at CoP but 
Mr Ks said he was talked through the process and told he didnt need to read the 
messages, he was asked to make a payment of £6,000 to the new account by the 
scammer, yet after making the lower payment of £600 he was then asked to make a 
second payment of £5,000. Ive not currently seen any information which explains 
why the second payment Mr K was asked to make didnt add up to the amount the 
scammer initially asked him to move to the new account.
With all this in mind, Im afraid I dont currently agree that Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was speaking with a legitimate person from his bank. And 
so, it follows that Im not currently satisfied Mr K has met the requisite level of care 
under the CRM Code.
As Ive concluded Mr K didnt meet the requisite level of care, Ive gone on to think 
about whether First Direct met the standards required of it, either under or outside of 
the CRM Code.
Should First Direct have done more here?
Under the CRM Code, First Direct is required to provide an effective warning when it
identifies an APP scam risk. So Ive considered whether it should have done so here 
 in other words whether it should have identified such a risk in relation to each 
payment when it was being made.
Ive therefore reviewed Mr Ks payment history to determine his normal pattern of 
account usage. Having done so I dont consider the first payment, for £600, would have stood out enough from that normal account activity to have prompted 
First Direct to be concerned he might be at risk from an APP scam.
However, I do consider that the second payment, for £5,000, in particular because it 
was being made in quick succession to payment one, should have prompted 
First Direct to have concerns that Mr K might be at risk of financial harm. As a result, 
I think it ought to have taken further steps here.
The CRM Code required that First Direct should have given Mr K an effective 
warning while he was making this second payment.
First Direct did provide a scam warning to Mr K, but I dont currently think I need to 
make a finding on whether this was an effective warning as set out by the Code in 
this particular case. I say this because, Mr K has explained hed not read any of the 
warnings that were presented when making the payments. Hes explained he was 
talked through each screen - what to select and what to click on. So, Im not currently 
convinced that the provision of an effective warning wouldve made a difference in 
this particular case.
But that does not represent the extent of what Id expect the bank to have done. 
Where it identified a specific scam risk (which I think it should have here) then it 
should have taken proportionate steps to assure itself that its customer wasnt about 
to suffer financial harm through fraud or a scam. I think there was enough going on 
here, that First Direct ought to have fairly and reasonably have got in touch with Mr K 
to ask him about the £5,000 payment he was asking to make.
Had it done so, Im satisfied this wouldve made a difference in this case. Given Mr K 
by his own testimony had doubts, had questions been asked about the payment, Im 
persuaded the scam wouldve unravelled and that the loss of £5,000 couldve been 
prevented.
However, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded Mr K had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. I consider it fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that both sides should share equal responsibility 
for the losses that resulted from payment two. That means I consider it fair that 
First Direct should now reimburse Mr K 50% of the sum he lost by making that 
payment.
In saying all of this, I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear that Mr K was 
the victim of this scam. The actions of those behind the scam were cynical and took 
no regard of the impact it would have on Mr K. He is the victim of a crime. But I can 
only look at what First Direct is required to do  I cannot consider the actions of those 
who have tricked and deceived Mr K in that.
I understand that this is not the outcome Mr K wants and I recognise the impact all of 
this has had on him. But I can reassure Mr K that Ive carefully considered all the 
details of what happened and of his complaint before reaching what I currently 
consider to be the fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances.
To put things right I said HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct should: 
Refund Mr K 50% of the second payment, less any funds already recovered and 
credited back to Mr K.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on 50% of the second payment, from the date of loss until the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). This is to reflect 
Mr K being deprived of the use of this money. HSBC should send Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one.
Responses to my provisional decision
First Direct responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr K responded and whilst he said he wasnt completely happy at not being refunded all of 
his money; he accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K and First Direct have accepted the findings of my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I indicated in my provisional decision (which have 
been copied above), setting out what I was intending to order First Direct to pay. I remain of 
the view that this complaint should be upheld in part for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first 
direct should:
Refund Mr K 50% of the second payment, less any funds already recovered and 
credited back to Mr K.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on 50% of the second payment, from the date of 
loss until the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). This is to reflect 
Mr K being deprived of the use of this money. HSBC should send Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman