DRN-3986163
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim on his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a pet insurance policy for his dog with Great Lakes in February 2022. He took 
the dog to the vet on 9 May 2022. The vet prescribed medication for the dogs stiff joints. 
Two days later the dog became very ill with internal bleeding for which he was treated. 
Mr M made a claim for £220.83 for the treatment for the stiff joints and £787.23 for the 
internal bleeding. 
Great Lakes said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. It said the dog had been 
treated for arthritis since at least September 2021 and so the policy didnt cover the 
treatment for stiff joints. It also refused to cover the treatment for gastroenteritis as the vet 
said that had been caused by an adverse reaction to the drug prescribed for the dogs 
arthritis.
Mr M argued that the two conditions were separate. He accepted that arthritis was a pre-
existing condition but said the gastroenteritis was a separate condition. He didnt see why a 
reaction to the drug given for arthritis should make the gastroenteritis a pre-existing condition 
as well.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought Great 
Lakes had acted fairly.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says:
We will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing conditions. 
The term pre-existing condition is defined as anything your pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the last 24 months.
The vets clinical notes for Mr Ms dog refer to the dog being lame on the front forelimb in 
September 2021 and stiffness in the hip was found in January 2022. As Mr M accepts that 
the arthritis was a pre-existing condition, I dont need to consider whether Great Lakes acted 
fairly in declining the claim for treatment relating to that condition.
Great Lakes asked Mr Ms vet what had caused the gastroenteritis. The vet replied:
The claim was submitted for osteoarthritis with complications arising from the medication 
prescribed. I can confirm that the [brand name of medication] was dispensed as an anti-
inflammatory to treat the symptoms of suspected osteoarthritis.
I think Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the medical evidence provided by the vet to say 
that the gastroenteritis was caused by the medication prescribed to treat the dogs arthritis. I 
also think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to say that meant the gastroenteritis was related 
to the pre-existing condition of arthritis and to decline the claim on that ground.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont be asking Great Lakes to do any more in respect of 
the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman