DRN-2669951
The complaint
Ms B complains that BISL Limited provided poor service to her when she bought motor 
insurance policies through it, leading to financial loss for her. Ms B is represented by Mr M, 
her partner (who is a named driver on her policies). 
What happened
In March 2016, Ms B entered her details online and was directed from a comparison website 
to BISL to complete the sale. In August 2016 she added Mr M to her policy, which was 
renewed through BISL in 2017, 2018 and 2019. 
In April 2019 Mr M was involved in an accident. The insurer noted that Ms B had said she 
was the vehicles registered keeper when she bought and renewed the policies, but in fact, 
that was Mr M. The insurer then had to decide whether to validate the claim, given that it had 
provided cover based on incorrect details from 2016 onwards. Ms B and Mr M thought BISL 
was at fault for not advising Ms B at the start - or subsequently - that the policy holder had to 
be the vehicles registered keeper. 
BISL said it wasnt able to provide advice to consumers, but that it had checked with Ms B in 
2016 that the details shed entered online didnt need changing. The choice of insurer was 
based on the details shed provided. BISL said had Ms B told it she wasnt the vehicles 
registered keeper, it would have acted on that information. But it had no reason to think that 
any of the details shed given it were wrong. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Bs complaint. She said that BISL was a non-advisory 
intermediary. Its role was only to check if a consumer wanted to make any changes to the 
details theyd already provided and to answer any questions they may have. She said it was 
a consumers responsibility to provide accurate information. 
Mr M said that under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines and data protection 
legislation BISL should have provided details of all the terms relating to the service it was 
providing. The investigator repeated that BISLs role wasnt to advise on the policy. It  relied 
on the details Ms B provided  and she had a responsibility to provide the correct ones. 
Mr M then said that in all telephone conversations with BISL, it was informed that the vehicle 
was shared between Ms B and Mr M. He said in 2016 BISL was told the vehicle was in the 
process of being bought and that there was no registered keeper at that point. So BISL 
should have advised Ms B then who the registered keeper had to be. He said had he been 
told the facts at any point he could have amended the name of the registered keeper. 
The investigator said shed seen no evidence of BISL being told there was no registered 
keeper at the point of sale. Mr M then provided call recordings that he said proved what hed 
said. He also said the recordings showed that BISLs advisors rushed through all the calls, 
making it hard to understand the terms of the policy. And he said none of the paperwork that 
was provided highlighted the fact that the registered keeper must be the policy holder.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the major issue in this complaint is whether a consumer should take reasonable care 
to provide accurate information when buying an insurance policy - or whether an 
intermediary should have to check every detail a consumer has provided for accuracy. 
Consumers have a duty to give accurate information from the outset. So it was for Ms B to 
ensure that she entered accurate details on the online application. I dont think it was BISLs 
role to query the details Ms B had entered online, other than to give her the chance to 
change them if necessary. BISL has shown that she said she was the vehicles registered 
keeper before calling it in 2016. BISL had no reason to think she wasnt, especially as at the 
time Ms B was the only person insured on the policy. I dont think it was its role to discuss 
the insurers underwriting criteria. The online questions and answers were designed to show 
which insurers were prepared to offer Ms B cover, based on the details she gave.
Ive listened to the sales call and I think it shows that Ms B didnt say the vehicle was shared, 
nor did she say there was no registered keeper at that point. Ive also listened to the calls in 
which Ms B first enquired about adding Mr M to the policy - and then did so. Ms B had the 
chance to state at that point that he was the vehicles registered keeper, but she didnt, 
although other issues relating to Mr M were discussed, such as his occupation. I dont think 
BISLs advisors rushed through the calls either. 
BISL issued policy documents to Ms B after the sale and after each renewal. She was asked 
to check them carefully for accuracy. Warnings were given in the documents about the 
possible consequences should any of the details prove to be incorrect. In all the documents, 
Ms B was named as the vehicles registered keeper, but she didnt call BISL to point out the 
error at any point, from 2016 onwards. 
  
It isnt clear why Ms B didnt say that Mr M was the vehicles registered keeper, but whatever 
the reason was, I think it was her duty to ensure that she provided the correct information. I 
dont think BISL was wrong to accept in good faith the details Ms B supplied. I dont think 
theres a link between the complaint Ms B has made about BISL and data protection 
legislation. And in my opinion, she hasnt shown that BISL didnt act in line with FCA 
guidelines. 
Once the insurer found that it had provided cover based on incorrect facts, it was for the 
insurer to decide what to do next, after investigating the situation. I think any consequences 
stemming from the insurers decision are the result of Ms B providing incorrect information 
and not correcting it, rather than the result of an error on BISLs part. 
As I dont think BISL has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Ms Bs complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman