DRN-3453613
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Ms M says that had adequate checks been carried out NewDay would have seen that there 
was a county court judgement recorded on her credit file and it would have realised that 
providing her with a £4,000 loan and increasing her credit limit to £5,900 wasnt affordable.
NewDay issued a final response letter in May 2021. It didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said 
that Ms M applied for an Aqua Mastercard in July 2018. At that time, she declared she was 
retired with an annual income of £15,250. It said she had unsecured debt of £800 and her 
credit check showed no defaults, arrears or payday loans. There was a public record from 47 
months prior with a value of £2,300 but said that Ms M met its lending criteria and was 
provided with the credit card with a £900 credit limit.
NewDay said it regularly reviews its accounts and that Ms Ms credit limit was increased 
three times and on each occasion Ms M had the option to opt out of the increase:
May 2019 - £900 to £2,150
September 2019 - £2,150 to £4,150
February 2020 - £4,150 to £5,900
Regarding the Aqua loan, NewDay said that to be eligible for the loan Ms M needed to have 
been managing her Aqua Mastercard account well as well as meeting its other criteria. Ms M 
was provided with a £4,000 loan in September 2019 with monthly repayments of £128. At 
the time, Ms Ms monthly income was £1,200 and NewDay said she had disposable monthly 
income of £860.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think that NewDay had carried out 
proportionate checks and said had these happened it would have shown that the second two 
credit limit increases (from £2,150) and the £4,000 loan shouldnt have been provided.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that there were no late payments or 
over-limit fees on Ms Ms card between July 2018 and March 2021 and Ms M didnt increase 
her spending to the limit straight after the increases. It said she managed her account well 
making regular payments and large repayments on some occasions. It didnt think this was 
the profile of someone in financial difficulties. It said the balance increases were due to 
balance transfers. In regard to the loan it said the repayments of £128 were affordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ms M was provided with an Aqua Mastercard with a £900 credit limit in July 2018. 
The information gathered at this time showed she had a historic county court 
judgement (47 months prior) but I didnt think this necessarily meant she shouldnt 
have been provided with credit. The other information gathered suggested that Ms M 
was manging her accounts well and based on her declared income and the other 
information I didnt find I had enough to say that the account with a credit limit of 
£900 shouldnt have been provided.
Ms Ms credit limit was increased in May 2019 to £2,150. This was almost a year 
after the credit card had been provided and Ms M had been managing her account 
well and her balance hadnt exceeded £500. Therefore, I agreed that the account 
management didnt show signs that Ms M was in financial difficulty. That said, this 
was a significant increase in the credit limit and Ms Ms credit file information showed 
her total borrowing had increased from less than £1,000 in 2018 to over £6,000 in 
January 2019. That said, taking into account the increased total borrowing against 
Ms Ms income I didnt think I could say - at this point - that NewDay should have 
realised the additional lending would be unaffordable.
In September 2019, Ms Ms credit limit was increased to £4,150. This was over four 
times the initial limit provided just over a year earlier. While Ms M was still managing 
her Aqua credit card well and the balance was still less than the first credit limit 
provided, the credit information showed her total outstanding balances had increased 
to over £12,000 the month before this increase. I thought this should have raised 
concerns about Ms Ms total credit commitments compared to her income and 
therefore her ability to maintain payments on any further credit. Given this I didnt 
think it was reasonable to increase her credit limit to £4,150 at this point.
While I didnt think Ms Ms credit limit should have been increased in September 
2019, this didnt have any material impact on Ms M at the time as she didnt 
significantly increase her use of the credit card until after the next credit limit increase 
took place. In February 2020, Ms Ms credit limit was increased to £5,900. As I didnt 
think it was reasonable to provide the increase in September 2019, I didnt think a 
further limit increase was reasonable. Ms Ms income hadnt changed and by 
February 2020 the credit report suggested she had total balances of over £20,000.
Overall, while didnt think NewDay did anything wrong by providing Ms M with the 
Aqua Mastercard with the initial limit of £900, and I didnt find I had enough to say the 
first limit increase shouldnt have happened, I didnt think that the limit should have 
been increased further in September 2019 and February 2020.
Ms M was also provided with a £4,000 loan in September 2019. This was around the 
same time as the second credit limit increase. The income and expenditure 
assessment at the time recorded Ms Ms monthly income as £1,200. It recorded 
expenses (excluding credit commitments) of £400. It then had credit commitments of 
recorded of around £500. So, while these numbers would still mean repayments of 
£128 were affordable, this would have left Ms M with limited funds available for any 
unexpected costs. I thought this, combined with the increases in Ms Ms credit 
commitments over the months leading up to this loan, should have raised concerns 
about Ms Ms ability to meet the repayments over the full loan term. Based on this I 
didnt think that it was reasonable to consider this loan as sustainably affordable for 
Ms M.
Ms M accepted my provisional decision and provided information about money transfer fees 
that had been applied. NewDay didnt provide any further evidence in response to the 
provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision and for the reasons I have explained, I dont think 
NewDay did anything wrong by providing Ms M with the Aqua Mastercard with the initial limit 
of £900, and I do not find I have enough to say the first limit increase shouldnt have 
happened. But I do not think that the limit should have been increased further in September 
2019 and February 2020. I also do not think that it was reasonable to consider the £4,000 
loan provided in September 2019 as sustainably affordable for Ms M.
As there was nothing provided in response to my provisional decision that changes my 
assessment, my conclusions havent changed. 
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should in regard to the loan:
Waive any interest and charges on the £4,000 loan and treat all payments Ms M has 
made towards the loan as though they were payments of capital. If this results in 
there being overpayments, these should be refunded to Ms M along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. If after the 
recalculation there is still an outstanding balance NewDay should work with Ms M to 
establish an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from Ms Ms credit file.
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should in regard to the credit card:
Rework Ms Ms card account, removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied to any balance above £2,150 after September 2019. Any refund should be 
applied to reduce Ms Ms outstanding balance. In the event the refund results in an 
overpayment, this should be refunded to Ms M along with 8% simple interest per year 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded about this credit card account from 
September 2019 from Ms Ms credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman