DRN-3607087
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the service received from Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(Interactive). He says he attempted to sell his shares in Company A and couldnt, due to an 
error from Interactive. He says it has admitted it was at fault, but it hasnt gone far enough 
with how it has compensated him for this.
What happened
Mr G has bought and sold shares using Interactives services including using an online 
platform. On 12 November 2021 Mr G tried to sell shares in Company A online but was 
unable to. He said he contacted Interactive and was told by a representative that he was 
unable to sell the shares as a corporate action had not been settled relating to the company 
in question. Mr G said he was, on the same day, sent a secure message giving him a formal 
complaint reference number. 
Mr G said on 16 November 2021 he received a message from Interactive offering to sell his 
shares at the screen price on that day, but he said he didnt want to as he wished to sell 
them for the price that was given on 12 November 2021. On 23 November 2021 he said 
interactive offered to sell the shares for him again, but he was of the same opinion: that he 
should have been able to sell the shares for the price on the day he wanted to sell the 
shares on 12 November 2021.
Mr G said he was told over the phone on several occasions that the shares were subject to 
his complaint and should not be sold whilst it was being investigated. 
Interactive responded on 4 January 2022 to Mr Gs complaint about not being able to sell 
Company A shares and upheld it. It said its representative gave incorrect information, and 
Mr G wouldve been able to sell the shares on 12 November 2021. It offered to pay Mr G the 
profit he wouldve made on the shares if he had sold them on the day he wanted to. The 
profit amounted to around £1120. 
Mr G was not happy with Interactives response or offer to put things right though. He said 
that since he has complained, the Company A share price has gone down, and he has made 
a significant loss. He thinks Interactive should pay him the difference in the amount that he 
has lost. He says he was told he should keep hold of the shares so its only right Interactive 
pay compensation for the loss that this has created. Mr G referred his complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint about Interactive. He concluded Interactive 
hadnt gone far enough and should also compensate Mr G for the difference between the 
price he would have received when he wanted to sell, and the price on 16 November 2021. 
This being the day Interactive asked Mr G if he wanted it to sell his shares in Company A.
Interactive agreed with the investigators view. Mr G didnt agree and said Interactive should 
cover all his losses that he has made on Company A shares that he holds, for the reason 
already given. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Interactive has upheld Mr Gs complaint and agreed that it should have done more when he 
called to ask why he couldnt sell his shares in Company A, on 12 November 2021. It said it 
should have put through Mr Gs request and made the trade manually. It said the information 
given at that time as incorrect. It tried to put things right with Mr G and offer him 
compensation, this being the profit that Mr G told it he had missed out on by not selling the 
shares. This came to £1120 and was the difference between what Mr G had bought the 
shares for and what he could have sold them for if they had been sold at the time and date 
Mr G wanted them to be sold on 12 November 2021. 
Mr G said he was informed over the phone on several occasions that the Company A shares 
that he held were subject to his complaint and should not be sold whilst it is being 
investigated. He said he held onto the shares as advised and by doing so, the share price 
has fallen, and he has been left with a significant loss. He thinks Interactive should make up 
the loss.
I have not been able to hear any call recordings or seen notes from any calls from 12 
November 2021 and 4 January 2022. The latter being the date Interactive concluded its 
complaint by sending a response and offer of compensation to Mr G. So, I cant be sure 
what was said between the parties about Mr Gs shares and whether it was discussed that 
he should keep hold of them. But I have been able to read submissions from Mr G where he 
has said Interactive told him that if he wants it to offer the price of the shares as of 12 
November 2021, then he would need to wait until its investigation is complete. This is 
different advice than Interactive telling Mr G to hold on to his shares. The former statement is 
simply I think suggesting that Mr G would need to wait until the investigation is complete for 
Interactive to be able to put things right. 
But in any case, I can see that on 16 November 2021 a representative from Interactive did 
message Mr G and asked him if he wanted him to sell the Company A shares for him. I think 
at this stage it would have become clear to Mr G that he was able to sell the shares if he 
wanted to. Mr G has told our service that he didnt want to do this and crystalise his losses at 
this stage. But this was a decision for Mr G from this date. I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr G to consider at this point that he couldve sold his shares and also 
complained about the service he received from Interactive on 12 November 2021. 
So, because of what I have just concluded, I dont agree with Mr G that Interactive should 
cover all of his losses, as he was informed on 16 November 2021 that he could sell his 
shares from this point onwards and had the choice  whether or not to do so. But I also dont 
think Interactive has gone far enough as it has only put things right up to the date Mr G 
wanted to sell his shares. It needs to compensate Mr G for the period that more likely than 
not, he wouldnt have been sure whether he could sell them, this being from 12 November 
2021 to 16 November 2021 when it first contacted him to say he could. 
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr G, as he wanted 
Interactive to cover all of the losses he has made on his Company A shares. But I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Interactive to do this, for the reasons Ive given above. But I do think it 
should go further and so for this reason I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. Putting things right
Interactive has paid Mr G £1120. This is the amount Mr G would have made in profit, if he 
had sold his Company A shares on 12 November 2021 as he had wanted to do. To put 
things right, in addition to what Interactive has already paid, I think it needs to do the 
following:
If the average price of the shares on 16 November 2021 was lower then, pay the 
difference between the price Mr G wouldve sold his shares for on 12 November 
2021 and an average price that he couldve obtained on 16 November 2021 
multiplied by the amount of shares he held that day.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the total amount calculated from 16 November 
2021 to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Interactive Investor Services Limited and require it to put 
things right as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman