DRN-3665702
The complaint
Mr J has complained Tesco Mobile Limited is asking him to pay a debt for a mobile phone 
contract which he never took out.
What happened
In 2021 Mr J noticed defaults on his credit record from Tesco Mobile. He complained to them 
as hed never taken out mobile phone credit agreements with them. Tesco believed as the 
address theyd got on their record matched Mr Js in 2017 and that there was a familial 
match with a name used on an email, they could continue to hold him liable for the debt.
Unhappy, Mr J brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence both Tesco and Mr J presented. She felt this overall 
showed Mr J hadnt taken out the original credit agreement (or the subsequent agreement 
following a mobile phone upgrade). She asked Tesco to stop pursuing Mr J for the debt and 
amend his credit record accordingly.
Tesco didnt agree with this outcome. Our investigator shared a copy of Mr Js credit record 
and confirmation from a third-party credit provider that Mr J had been a victim of ID fraud.
No further answer was received from Tesco. Mr Js complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its worth stating upfront that our investigator wrote a detailed review of the issues involved 
and the evidence wed considered in her view sent on 19 July 2022. I dont think theres any 
need to go through all the issues again.
I believe the following evidence is key:
Tesco had said payments were made towards the two credit agreements but have 
been unable to confirm any details which enable us to identify the accounts making 
any payments or that these are linked to Mr J in any way.
Mr Js credit record for this full period (2017 onwards) shows he was registered to 
vote at the address Tesco holds for the mobile phone agreements. Hes told us he 
was mostly away at university during that time but that was his parents address.
Emails for both credit agreements when taking them out dont match the one Mr J 
uses.
Bank statements from both bank accounts Mr J held covering the full period (2017 
onwards) show no payments being made to Tesco Mobile despite Tesco telling us 
accounts linked to Mr J were making payments.
Tesco holds no information confirming where the mobile phones were delivered in 
2017 and 2019. Theyve said it must have been to the address registered to Mr J at 
the time along with initial letters confirming a credit agreement was in force. However 
there is nothing to confirm this.
Mr J has been able to show other credit was taken out in his name and a third-party 
provider has confirmed this wasnt him.
I accept that there are some inconsistencies here  particularly the name used for the email 
linked to the mobile agreement does match one within Mr Js family. However Ive seen no 
evidence which shows Mr J applied for these mobile agreements or allowed someone else 
to use them.
Putting things right
As Ive decided Mr J didnt take out the credit agreements for mobile devices in dispute, 
Tesco will need to put things right.
They will need to stop holding Mr J liable for this debt and remove any data related to the 
two agreements from Mr Js credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Tesco Mobile Limited to:
Write off any outstanding debt related to those two mobile phone credit agreements 
in Mr Js name;
Stop pursuing Mr J for any debt; and
Remove all data related to those agreements  including the negative data  from 
Mr Js credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman