DRN-2051395
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the level of service hes received from AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited. He would like a return of the fees hes paid in respect of services 
which havent been received.
What happened
Following the acquisition of the business which originally advised Mr T, AFH wrote to Mr T in 
February 2015 confirming this. The products which were then to be managed by AFH were 
an income drawdown arrangement in Mr Ts name and a joint retirement savings product in 
both his and his wifes name.
In March 2015, Mr T met with one of AFHs advisers and then again in April 2015 to 
complete a fact find document in which Mr Ts circumstances and objectives were 
recorded.
AFH then sent Mr T a detailed summary of Mr Ts financial position in November 2015, along 
with a portfolio recommendation in preparation for the next meeting. As no response was 
forthcoming, the Key Investor Documents for the recommended portfolio were sent to Mr T 
in January 2016.
A meeting then occurred in March 2016, at which point Mr T confirmed that he would 
consider the proposed fund switches and client service proposition further, but AFH wasnt 
advised of a decisions on either of these.
Following a further period of no contact, Mr T then complained to AFH on the above detailed 
basis. In particular, Mr T said that his funds hadnt been reviewed and hed received no 
contact for three years, but AFH had been paid throughout this time.
AFH didnt uphold the complaint, saying in summary that it had contacted Mr T and met with 
him on several occasions, but that it was left up to Mr T as to whether he wished to 
implement the recommendations.
In respect of the payment which AFH received, it said that this took the form of trail 
commission as a result of the original sale of the product, the ongoing remuneration for 
which had been passed on to AFH from the previous advising firm. This, it said, was 
payment in respect of a commercial agreement between AFH and the product provider, and 
it wouldnt be prepared to refund this.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr T referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the matter and said the following in summary:
The initial contact with Mr T had been quite sporadic, with significant gaps between 
instances of AFH getting in touch with him.
As Mr T had never signed the client agreement, he hadnt technically been a client of 
AFH. And so there was no obligation on AFH to provide a service to Mr T.
However, AFH still had a responsibility to treat Mr T fairly, and the investigator didnt 
think it had done so here. It hadnt explained to Mr T that he needed to sign the client 
agreement and, although she noted that AFH had struggled to arrange a meeting 
with Mr T, it had taken over a year before he was given the client agreement and 
other documentation.
Furthermore, as the new servicing agent for the drawdown plan, AFH was receiving 
documents such as a review packs, but it didnt seem as if much had been done 
about this  or that it had been explained that little could be done until Mr T had 
signed the client agreement.
However, the investigator echoed the remarks made by AFH regarding the 
commission payments. She said that it was possible for the trail commission to be 
taken on by the new servicing agent, but this was unrelated to any service provided 
between 2015 and 2019  and she noted that Mr T hadnt paid an actual fee to AFH 
in respect of any services.
As no fee had been paid, no refund could be paid to Mr T. But the investigator did 
think that AFH should pay Mr T £150 in respect of the lack of contact and service he 
had received.
AFH accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr T didnt, making the following 
further points in summary:
AFH should have done more for him between 2015 and 2019.
He didnt find the distinction between commission and advising fees to be 
acceptable.
The recommended award was insufficient and he didnt understand how the 
investigator had arrived at that amount. It was nowhere near the amount AFH would 
have received in commission.
The investigator explained that the award was consistent with the type of award we would 
make in similar situations where we had concerns over a level of service received. She also 
said it wasnt designed to reflect the commission payments received by AFH.
Agreement on the outcome wasnt reached, however, and so its been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that, generally speaking, and prior to the Retail Distribution Review which 
effectively banned them in 2012, commission payments were the mechanism of an advising 
business being paid for its services  the money wasnt recouped from a consumer directly, 
but rather was paid on behalf of the consumer by the provider. It usually took the form of 
either a larger initial amount followed by a smaller trail amount, or a regular and slightly 
higher amount.
This was typically built in to the overall cost of the policy, and would have been recouped by 
the provider through the application of different types of units (with different costs) at the 
outset of a plan and/or regular policy fees.
Sometimes, it was specifically agreed that trail commission would entitle a consumer to 
further services, including regular reviews and other types of policy management. And so 
Ive asked the investigator to enquire further as to whether this was a service, in addition to the initial set up of the policy, which was agreed by the parties to be paid for by the trail 
commission. AFH has confirmed that neither it, nor the previous adviser, has any record of 
the original agreement between Mr T and the preceding business.
It did say, however, that had Mr T agreed to a service proposition with AFH, as the existing 
trail commission was 0.75% pa, it would have used this to offset the same amount which it 
would have charged for services provided to Mr T. And so there would have been no 
additional cost to Mr T.
Therefore, the available evidence doesnt support the position that the trail commission was 
being paid with the expectation of an ongoing service. But Ive thought carefully about 
whether AFHs preparedness to offset the amount of trail commission it was receiving 
against a further adviser fee is an indication that, as no service had been provided up to the 
point the commission payments were cancelled, it should therefore be required to return the 
trail commission payments received up to that point.
However, Ive also thought about the transfer of a book of business from the predecessor to 
AFH, and that any financial agreement is likely to have factored in issues such as ongoing 
trail commission payments. And I think that, in saying that it wouldnt have levied a further 
adviser charge if Mr T had agreed to the service proposition, AFH was intending to make a 
concession on the basis that it was already receiving a 0.75% trail commission payment  
but importantly, one that I dont think it necessarily had to. It was entitled to the ongoing trail 
commission as the successor business, but was prepared to offset it against further advisory 
costs.
So overall, I dont think AFH needs to refund the trail commission paid to it. To reiterate, this 
was a legacy cost derived of the initial set up of the policy, not payment for a service which 
hadnt, for whatever reason, been provided. 
But as with the investigator, I do think that Mr T would have been justified in expecting a 
better standard of contact, if not actual service. AFH was fairly proactive in the beginning 
stages of the relationship, but then became distinctly less so, with a period of no contact at 
all between 2016 and 2019. 
AFH left the ball in Mr Ts court in terms of whether he wished to make changes to his policy, 
but I do think at the very least it ought to have made contact on a yearly basis to ask whether 
Mr T wished to meet to discuss his financial matters.
Putting things right
And so I can see why Mr T is dismayed at what he considers to have been payments 
received by AFH in return for a lack of service. And so, notwithstanding my comments above 
relating to the actual commission payments, I do think that a payment in respect of the upset 
caused by this is warranted here. 
And having thought carefully about the likely impact here on Mr T, along with other awards 
made by this service in similar situations, I think the £150 payment recommended by the 
investigator is warranted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AFH should pay to Mr T £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman