DRN-3587132
The complaint
Mr X complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund him around seventy 
disputed transactions made from his account. Mr X also complains Santander have unfairly 
withheld his remaining funds.  
What happened
Mr X is professionally represented, but to keep things simple I will refer, where possible, to 
Mr X going ahead.
Mr X opened his Santander account in 2014. Between August 2018 and early October 2018 
over seventy separate transactions were made from Mr Xs account which he says he didnt 
authorise. These transactions amount to around £200,000 and are mainly made up of card 
payments with some cash withdrawals.
At the time these transactions were made, Mr X says he was abroad, and his visa to travel to 
the UK had expired  he is not a UK citizen. Mr X has a property in the UK, which he owns 
and resides in. Mr X has a daughter who is living and studying in the UK. She lives at a 
different address in the UK to that of Mr X.
Mr X says no one was living in his UK property at the time the disputed transactions took 
place. Amongst other things, he says he only started to discover what had happened when 
his cheque, made out to his daughter, bounced in October 2018.
Mr X called Santander around this time and was told he would need to come to the UK and 
visit one of its branches with identification before it could do anything more to help him.
Santander had blocked Mr Xs account in October 2018 after reversing two payments as it 
had become suspicious about some of the transactions.
Mr X renewed his visa and passport and travelled to the UK in August 2019. Its at this point 
Mr X says he became aware of the transactions. He says he was shocked to learn about 
what had happened, and he had not authorised anybody to carry them out.
Santander did not uphold Mr Xs claim. In summary, Santander said:
- The new card and PIN used to facilitate the disputed transactions on Mr Xs account 
were sent to his residential address
- Santander were able to locate a call in which these credentials were ordered, made 
from the landline telephone number registered at Mr Xs address. As Mr X hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence of unauthorised access to his property it can only 
conclude access was given to a third party 
- This is further supported by the fact that despite Mr Xs claim his property was 
unoccupied since 2016, he continued to use direct debit to pay for telephone, energy 
and gas services 
Mr X referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint - they did not uphold it. They made several findings which are known to both 
parties, so I wont reiterate them here. 
In response, Mr Xs representatives made the following points: 
- The phone provider has confirmed no call was made from Mr Xs landline (to order 
the new card and PIN). So it is incomprehensible there was explicit authorisation by 
Mr X
- To conclude Mr X gave authority to a third-party, rests on the assumption the new 
card and PIN were ordered from his home telephone number, which it was not
- Santander did not investigate this matter under its obligations under the FCAs DISP 
complaint handling rules
- The Investigator has relied on evidence which hasnt been inspected. Thats because 
she had not been able to view electronic evidence to show the card transactions 
were authenticated but thought it reasonable to suggest they were. This is 
concerning and should be reviewed
- Mr Xs bank statements will show hes never used online banking. This key piece of 
evidence has been ignored
- Santander should be able to trace the IP address of any device used to find who has 
made the transactions  but its failed to do so
- The transactions cover a wide geographical area. Mr X was abroad in a different 
country, and unable to travel to the UK as his passport and visa had expired. If 
transactions were authenticated using CHIP and PIN, the card must have been 
shared amongst various individuals or somehow duplicated. There are many 
possibilities. This is something that must be investigated to determine authentication
- Its unrealistic to say any items fraudulently ordered were delivered to Mr Xs 
address. Its not necessary for someone to have access to Mr Xs home to receive 
any post. Any post could have been delivered to a mailbox, door slit or left on the 
ground
- Its also plausible the card and PIN never reached Mr Xs address or was intercepted
- No guilt should be placed or inferred upon Mr Xs daughter without a formal police 
investigation
- The landline could have been spoofed  a method used by professional scammers 
- There are several known methods to overcome security questions. Personal security 
information is easily obtainable by fraudsters through fake job listings and fake forms 
being sent to individuals. This information can then be used to pass bank security. 
Its also possible that information may have been passed from someone inside 
Santander to the fraudster
- The statements were not sent right after the payments were made so Mr X could not 
have been alerted. Because of this, Mr X questions why his statements were not sent- A phone recording of the person ordering the card and PIN must have been provided 
by Santander and should be reviewed. This would show a data breach likely 
occurred
- As there were no signs of a break-in, nothing was previously reported to the Police. 
Mr X and his daughter were both told to not contact the Police by Santander. There 
must be some record of this. Mr X has now reported the fraud to the Police
- Theres enough evidence to lead an investigation to the true perpetrators. For 
example, tracing matters back to the merchants and tracing funds through the 
banking system. The investigation therefore hasnt been comprehensive enough nor 
diligent
- Mr X has never used his card for the account. The card he had couldnt be used as it 
had expired. No details of the phone number used to call Santander have been 
provided
- Its unsafe to conclude a call made in August 2018 to authorise and verify payments 
was Mr X without having listened to Mr Xs voice and compared the calls
- Mr Xs remaining funds are still being withheld and blocked by Santander
- Santander should have internal safeguards to prevent this sort of fraud
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties my provisional 
decision. I said that I was not planning to uphold Mr Xs complaint. For ease of reference, 
Ive added it here: 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im planning not to uphold Mr Xs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why.
I note Mr X feels strongly about his complaint and questions why some assumptions have 
previously made by our Investigator. Its important I explain that where I dont have 
conclusive evidence or where information is missing, I can make my decision based on what 
I think is most likely to have happened  the balance of probabilities.
Authentication
This is effectively the process by which a bank should demonstrate that it followed its own 
internal process and proper form to authenticate a payment. To that end, its broadly typical 
for technical records to be kept that show the CHIP and PIN was used, or the online security 
protocol was met to authenticate a payment.
Santander have been able to send me technical records that show where online or mobile 
banking were used, the security protocols were correctly passed, and any payments made 
were authenticated in line with its processes. Similarly, where certain additional security 
measures associated to card providers were required, these were also correctly 
authenticated.However, that doesnt deal with most of the transactions which were made by card payment 
and cash withdrawal. Santander does not have the technical records for this given the time 
thats passed since the transactions took place. This of course is unfortunate. Mr X says 
making a finding on this point without that information is unsafe.
As Ive said above, where information is inconclusive or isnt available, I can make my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. All these payments were made 
using the card and were done so in 2018  whether that be online or physically. In 2018, it 
was industry practice, as it is today, that any physical payments are completed using CHIP 
and PIN. That would also be the case with ATM cash withdrawals.
Any payments made online would also have required knowledge of the card details  for 
example the long number on the front, expiry date and CVV number on the back. So given 
these details would most likely have been needed, Im persuaded on balance, that these 
transactions were most likely authenticated in line with the Santanders internal security 
process and met its proper form.
I note Mr Xs representatives say that as the transactions cover a wide geographical area, 
the card must have been shared amongst various individuals or somehow duplicated. In 
broad terms we have not seen enough evidence to show a cards CHIP can be cloned.
Importantly, in terms of reaching a finding on the authentication point, I need to determine if I 
think the proper process to authenticate a payment was followed  and Ive already said I 
think, on balance, it most likely was.
Consent
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Santander to hold Mr X liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not Mr X consented to the transactions being made. Any finding here is 
crucial to the outcome, and to that end, is the crux of Mr Xs complaint.
Did Mr X consent and authorise the transactions himself?
Ive seen a copy of Mr Xs previous and latest passport which show it had expired during the 
time the transactions took place in 2018. Ive also seen his UK visa had expired and was 
only renewed just before he came to the UK to visit Santanders branch in 2019. So, Im 
persuaded Mr X wasnt in the UK.
In saying this, I considered why he was paying for utility, television and telephone services 
for his UK home if he  or no one else  was living there. But Mr X says he travelled for 
business, and so I can imagine he wouldnt have always known when hed be in the UK - 
especially as he is not a UK national. Given the sums Mr X held in his account, I can also 
understand why he may have been more than tolerant to pay for services he wasnt always 
using.
So, to conclude, Im satisfied Mr X wasnt in the UK when these transactions were carried 
out. Given the new card and PIN would have been received in the UK and most of the 
transactions carried out here, Im persuaded Mr X didnt physically carry them out himself.
Did Mr X give someone authority to carry out the transactions?
Mr X has sent me telephone bills which show no calls were made around summer 2018. The 
phone provider too has confirmed that no calls were made in July 2018 when the card and 
PIN were ordered. Santander havent given me any information to show someone called it from Mr Xs landline in July 2018 to order a new card and PIN. So, Im satisfied Santander 
was wrong to say a new card and PIN were ordered from Mr Xs landline number.
Because of this I dont think its likely Mr Xs landline number was spoofed  but more likely a 
different number was used. So Mr Xs argument about his number being spoofed isnt 
something I need to consider further.
But Santander have sent me its internal records which show a card and PIN were ordered in 
July 2018 and they were sent to Mr Xs address. I note Mr X says letters could have been 
sent to a mailbox, left on the floor, or put in a slit.
Its common practice for banks to send new cards and PIN numbers in separate envelopes. 
Mr X hasnt sent me any compelling evidence to show he was having problems with 
receiving his post. Ive also listened to a call Mr X had with Santander in September 2019 
when reporting the transactions. Amongst other things, he says that when he did come to 
the UK there were lots of letters on the floor  but none from Santander as his account was 
under review and blocked.
So, despite the landline not being used to order a new card and PIN, Im satisfied from what 
Ive seen they were likely sent to Mr Xs address and that it was most likely correctly posted 
and delivered. In reaching this finding, Ive also considered if the post was possibly 
intercepted. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest this is what likely happened.
Mr X has said theres no evidence of a forced break-in at his UK home. In a call to 
Santander in September 2019 he said no one had a key to the property other than himself. 
His representatives later said his daughter had a key  but never had reason to visit the 
property. Nor did his wife, who would stay with the daughter when in the UK at her address. 
Im satisfied the daughter lived at different address given the information Ive been sent.
I do question why Mr X has been discrepant and inconsistent about no one else having a 
key  and then later saying the daughter had one. Mr X has since explained the daughter 
having a key was a backup should he forget to bring his to the UK. He also explains she 
used this to check up on the house when her cheque bounced and thats when they 
discovered no bank statements were being delivered.
These are all plausible explanations and they sound like sensible steps to take. What I do 
struggle with however is how unauthorised individuals would have had access to the house 
to acquire the card and PIN, which would have been sent on separate occasions, knowing 
they could be caught in the house at any time.
After all, they wouldnt know if Mr X, or his family, were not going to be there. So there is a 
serious risk of being captured. That in turn makes me think that anyone carrying this out had 
detailed knowledge of Mr X and his familys whereabouts, and their plans.
The other aspect of this complaint that makes me think someone knew key information 
about Mr X that he ought only to know himself, is the ordering of the card and PIN, and the 
setting up of online and mobile banking. Mr X is clear that he never shared his personal 
security information with anyone. So its difficult to understand how someone would have 
known these details without Mr X telling them.
Ive had no plausible explanation as to how this information may have come into the hands 
of a fraudster. Mr X has said there are several known methods to overcome security 
questions. For example, personal security information is easily obtainable by fraudsters 
through fake job listings and fake forms being filled out by potential victims. He adds that its also possible information may have been passed from someone inside Santander to the 
fraudster.
I accept that the above explanations are possibilities, but there could equally be other 
explanations. Importantly, I havent seen any evidence to show Mr X was duped into giving 
out his personal information nor that someone within Santander passed this information on 
to a fraudster.
So, given what Ive said above, I find it difficult to understand how an unauthorised individual 
would have known Mr Xs personal details to not only order a new card and PIN, but also 
set-up online and mobile banking, without some complicity from Mr X. This is further 
supported by there being no persuasive argument to explain how a fraudster would have 
had access to Mr Xs property, over at least two separate visits.
I have been able to listen to the call made to Santander in August 2018 shortly after a block 
was put on the account. And Ive listened to the call Mr X made in 2019 when discussing the 
transactions with Santanders fraud case handler. Mr X doesnt dispute having a phone 
conversation with Santander in 2019, but says it wasnt him that called in 2018 to lift a block 
on his account.
In the 2018 call, the individual passes security seamlessly and even confirms two digits of a 
personalised security code. They also confirm Mr Xs correct landline. They also confirm 
card transactions which led to the block to validate them. Mr X has argued that Santander 
ought to have done more to safeguard him from fraud. This is a measure it took.
Having listened to the 2018 and 2019 calls, Im satisfied they are not the same person. So I 
think our Investigator was wrong to say they were. But they were not able listen to the call, 
which I subsequently have been able to.
Though the two people on the calls are most likely different people - despite sounding 
demographically similar - this doesnt mean an unauthorised individual carried out fraud 
against Mr X. For the reasons already given, I still think its most likely Mr X authorised 
someone to act in his stead given the knowledge required of personal security information 
and access to the home.
Having listened to the 2019 call Mr X had with Santanders fraud case handler; I note he is 
asked whether he has reported the matter to the Police. Mr X says he is not prepared to go 
to them as the matter is one for Santander to deal with for not protecting his funds.
Mr X says both him and his daughter were told not to contact the Police by Santander. Ive 
carefully read the internal records Santander have sent me, and I cant see anywhere they 
were told this.
I do question why Mr X didnt go to the Police immediately after he became aware of what 
had happened. But Im not placing too much weight on this point as an indicator of whether 
Mr X did or didnt authorise someone to carry out the transactions in dispute here. Thats 
because even if he didnt want to call the police as Ive heard him say, there could be 
reasons for this  including what hes said. That is, he felt it was Santanders role to 
investigate the matter and put things right.
Mr X says account statements were not sent right after the payments were made. So they 
didnt alert him to what was going on. From what Ive seen, I think the statements stopped 
being sent once the account was blocked for review in September 2018. But I dont think the 
point Mr X is making would have made any difference. Thats because he wasnt in the UK and hes said no one else was in the house up until his daughter went there later after her 
cheque bounced. The account was already blocked at that that point.
Mr X says he never used his card nor online or mobile banking. Having looked at the 
account activity I have no reason to disagree. But this, in of itself, doesnt indicate Mr X didnt 
authorise someone to carry out the transactions by giving them his personal details and 
access to his home.
Mr X says Santander has failed in its obligation to investigate this matter properly. He says 
that knowing IP addresses, and where and to whom payments were made to, should be 
enough information for Santander to trace the fraudsters. There are ways to circumvent IP 
addresses. Also, the level of investigation required, and legal powers needed to be as 
comprehensive as Mr X suggests is likely best suited to the Police.
I note Mr Xs daughter had a key to his house. To be clear, I make no finding on this point or 
the argument put forward that it doesnt mean she was complicit in any fraud. 
Santander dont have the recording of the call made in July 2018 to order the new card and 
PIN. That is unfortunate, so Ive relied on the evidence I do have when reaching my 
decision.
So, after having weighed everything up, Ive decided it was most likely Mr X authorised 
someone to act on his behalf and carry out transactions he now disputes. That means Im 
persuaded he authorised the payments. So Santander is not liable to refund them to him.
Account review and closure
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Given the nature of the activity on Mr Xs account, and the concerns Santander had, I think it 
acted fairly when reviewing and blocking the account.
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account. And in certain circumstances it can close an account 
immediately or with less notice. Having reviewed the account terms, Im satisfied Santander 
acted fairly when deciding to close Mr Xs account.
Mr X says his remaining funds are still being withheld by Santander. Having seen the 
reasons Santander has done this, and given the obligations it must adhere to, I dont think it 
is acting unfairly by holding the funds. Im under no obligation, that Im aware of, to disclose 
these reasons
The deadline for responses to my provisional decision has now passed. Santander agreed 
with what I said and made no further representations. 
Mr Xs legal representatives disagreed. To keep matters simple, I will summarise the key 
arguments here. But before I do that, and to be clear, I will only address points which relate 
to findings I made  not any the Investigator reached before the complaint was passed to 
me.  
When a complaint is passed to me for decision, I look at it afresh and independently. Summary of response from Mr Xs legal representative
 
 Caution should be exercised in the determination of an assessment to avoid 
assumptions unless there is a proper inferential basis for such a conclusion
 The Ombudsman has effectively said Mr X is being disingenuous by concluding he 
passed his personal security details to a third party. This conclusion is flawed and 
doesnt properly exclude all other potential scenarios including Santanders failure to 
prevent the activity
 From the time the account was opened in 2016 up until the disputed transactions in 
2018, the account activity shows expenses were only paid by direct debit and 
cheque. No purchases were made by debit card or on-line banking. This is 
consistent with Mr X using the account as a deposit one for the purpose of meeting 
direct debits and his daughters fees. 
The disputed transactions are clearly unusual given the pattern beforehand. This 
type of behaviour is consistent with card fraud whereby fraudsters dissipate funds 
through the purchase of high value items such as jewellery. The only logical 
conclusion that can be drawn is that Mr X was not using the card and was a victim of 
fraud
 Given Mr Xs age, previous spending history and the unusual nature of the 
fraudulent spending, Santanders anti-fraud control system should have flagged it. 
Santander has a legal requirement to have such a monitoring system designed to 
identify unusual activity with automated service contact. 
Santander says it has such a system in place, but it was not properly engaged in 
Mr Xs case. Substantive sums being paid to high end jewellers is indicative of fraud, 
and Santanders systems failed to identify this. So Santander failed in preventing 
fraudulent transactions on Mr Xs account  it did not properly or forensically look at 
the transactions.   
The Ombudsman has failed to consider how Santanders anti-fraud systems failed to 
pick up the transactions, and by doing so, its failed to meet its legal requirement. 
The changes in Mr Xs account behaviours should have triggered Santanders 
systems. Mr Xs representative has highlighted several transactions which they think 
should have triggered Santander into checking their authenticity. 
 Santander falsely asserted it had the call from July 2018 when Mr X called from his 
landline to order a new card and PIN. This raises significant questions about the 
validity and reliability of its anti-fraud systems in place at the time. 
Santander falsely assumed Mr X had called them as security had been passed, and 
this error meant it failed to follow other lines of enquiry and investigation. No call 
notes been provided. 
 Both Santander, and this service, have falsely put the burden on Mr X to show there 
was unauthorised access to his property Despite the Ombudsman concluding calls provided by Santander from 2018 and 
2019 of purported calls with Mr X, were not the same person, the Ombudsman has 
said the only conclusion is that Mr X gave authority to the ultimate caller
 There has been a failure to consider sections 75-77 of the Payments Service 
Regulations 2017, which says the burden rests on the payment service provider to 
demonstrate transactions are authenticated, accurately recorded, not affected by 
technical breakdown or some other deficiency. 
As Santander did not have the technical records, the Ombudsman said it's 
reasonable to conclude the transactions were authenticated by CHIP or PIN, a 
contactless feature or the correct card details were used online. But this conclusion 
doesnt consider Mr X could have been the victim of a sophisticated fraud. This is 
supported by Mr Xs landline not being used to make the call in which a new card 
and PIN were ordered as previously asserted.
The absence of Santanders technical records shouldnt be held against Mr X. 
Where information is inconclusive or unavailable, to then say Mr X authorised the 
transactions, is too easy a line to draw.  
 As Mr X wasnt in the UK, no one had access to his home, and the order for a new 
card and PIN wasnt from the landline, there has been a failure to consider that the 
fraud was perpetuated by employees of Santander. The burden is on Santander to 
prove its security was water-tight and no such internal compromise occurred here. 
There are well publicised examples of such fraud being committed with a similar 
spending patterns and items purchased to that of Mr Xs account. And why would 
Mr X seek to defraud himself whilst out of the country
 Santander hasnt made requests to trace the transactions, particulars of the payees 
by seeking CCTV or other identification evidence. Instead, Santander has assumed 
Mr X gave permission for the use of his card
 The Ombudsman has failed to consider Santander hasnt given any information to 
show what enquiries and investigation it carried out. 
Theres no information which shows Mr Xs security information wasnt compromised 
by Santander. It would have been possible for Santanders fraud team to have 
traced payments, locations, IP address, and sought to discover where valuable 
items were purchased and seeking CCTV recording from the retailers. It would 
appear the only line of enquiry has been the security protocols for the payment. 
This line of enquiry without additional investigation will always stop at verification. It 
then reverses the burden making the complainer having to prove they did not 
provide his security details.
 Mr Xs failure to report the matter to the Police does not add weight to the 
suggestion he had something to hide. 
 Mr Xs remaining funds should be returned to him. No AML concerns were raised by 
the time of the deposits. 
As both parties have now responded, I must now decide this complaint. Relevant considerations 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSR 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mr X disputes. Among other things the PSR 
2017 include the following:
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised 
by the payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its 
consent to 
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
Regulation 75 of the PSR also explains: 
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a) denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers 
accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the 
service provided by the payment service provider.
(2) If a payment transaction was initiated through a payment initiation service 
provider, it is for the payment initiation service provider to prove that, within its sphere 
of competence, the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately recorded and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or other deficiency linked to the payment 
initiation service.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service 
provider, including a payment initiation service provider where appropriate, is not in 
itself necessarily sufficient to prove either that 
(a) the payment transaction was authorised by the payer; or 
(b) the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply 
with regulation 72 (users obligations in relation to payment instruments and 
personalised security credentials).
(4) If a payment service provider, including a payment initiation service provider 
where appropriate, claims that a payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with regulation 72, the payment service provider must provide 
supporting evidence to the payer.The PSRs define authentication as: a procedure which allows a payment service provider 
to verify the identity of a payment service user or the validity of the use of a specific payment 
instrument, including the use of the users personalised security credentials. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr X, 
so Ill explain why. 
Authentication
I said in my provisional decision that as these payments were made using the card and 
were done so in 2018  whether that be online or physically. In 2018, it was industry 
practice, as it is today, that any physical payments are completed using CHIP and PIN. That 
would also be the case with ATM cash withdrawals.
Any payments made online would also have required knowledge of the card details  for 
example the long number on the front, expiry date and CVV number on the back. So given 
these details would most likely have been needed, Im persuaded on balance, that these 
transactions were most likely authenticated in line with the Santanders internal security 
process and met its proper form
Mr Xs representatives argue the absence of Santanders technical records shouldnt be held 
against Mr X. Where information is inconclusive or unavailable, to then say Mr X authorised 
the transactions, is too easy a line to draw.  
Firstly, the PSRs say authentication isnt in of itself enough to say a consumer authorised a 
payment. To do so I need to consider if the consumer consented to them as well. 
I note it is incumbent upon a financial business to prove, within its sphere of competence, 
the transactions were authenticated, accurately recorded and not affected by a technical 
breakdown or other deficiency.  But Santander no longer hold this information. 
So this means I must make a finding on what I think is most likely to have happened. Even if 
I were to apply the lowest standards a business is expected to have in place to authenticate 
any payment, for the reasons Ive already given in my provisional decision, I still think they 
most likely were. 
In reaching this determination, Ive also weighed up the online and mobile banking 
transactions were properly authenticated and evidenced. And, I havent seen anything to 
suggest Santander had issues which meant its card payment authentication protocols 
werent effective around that time.
Ive then closely considered whether Mr X consented to the payments  especially as Ive 
said, authentication, in isolation, isnt enough to determine authorisation.  
Consent
I already accepted the transactions in dispute were out of character to Mr Xs previous 
account behaviour. But before I examine whether I think Santander should have done more 
to protect Mr X from financial harm, I need to consider whether I think he likely consented to the transactions. 
Mr Xs representatives argue that I have failed to consider other scenarios in which Mr X 
would have been the unwitting victim of fraud committed against him. One such scenario 
theyve put forward is Mr X could equally have been the victim of insider fraud. That is 
persons working for Santander may have orchestrated the fraud. 
This, alongside other sophisticated fraud scenarios, could explain what happened. But I 
must reach my decision on the information I have  and consider what I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
As it stands, I cant explain how an unauthorised person(s) would have known secure and 
confidential information - which Mr X says he hasnt divulged to anyone. And, were then able 
to pass Santanders security protocols to order a new card and PIN, set-up online banking, 
and collect and access these credentials from his residential address in the UK without some 
degree of complicity from Mr X. 
I note Santander dont have the 2018 call in which a new card and PIN were ordered. But Im 
persuaded, that its most likely, security details would have been required by Santanders 
staff to process this request. I cant of course be sure, so Im making this finding on the 
balance of probabilities. 
This leads me to decide  on balance  that its most likely Mr X authorised a third party to 
carry out the transactions. I havent seen any plausible or persuasive evidence, relating 
directly to Mr Xs complaint, which suggests he was the victim of insider fraud by 
Santanders staff. 
I note Mr Xs representatives feel Ive falsely put the burden on him to show there was 
unauthorised access to his property. But hes said there wasnt any signs of forced entry and 
that only he, his wife and daughter had access to it.  So given someone else accessed the 
property to collect two separate letters containing the card and PIN, I still think its likely he 
authorised someone to do this. 
Ive already said the 2018 caller and Mr X were different people. But that doesnt mean Mr X 
didnt give authority to that person to act in his stead. What I struggle with is how this 
individual knew enough information about Mr X to have passed its security checks. I havent 
seen anything which shows Mr Xs personal security details were compromised. 
So, weighing everything up, I think, on the balance of probability, Mr X most likely gave 
someone these details. Its important to remember that I cant be completely sure about this, 
but my finding on what I think is most likely to have happened is drawn on the information I 
do have. 
That brings me onto Santanders monitoring of the account and whether it failed to protect 
Mr X from financial harm. I agree financial businesses, like Santander, have an obligation to 
protect its customers by having adequate anti-fraud monitoring systems in place. But given I 
think Mr X most likely authorised someone to carry out these transactions, Im not persuaded 
how any such intervention would have made a difference. In fact, when Santander did block 
the account to check the validity of some transactions, the caller was able to pass security 
and validate them. 
I note Mr X says the spending behaviour was strongly indicative of fraudulent behaviour and 
questions why he would commit fraud against himself if he was outside of the country. I 
agree the transactions are suspicious in nature and seem to be designed to dissipate the 
funds rapidly. But Ive had to consider how these transactions were likely authorised, and Ive already said its most likely that Mr X was in some way complicit and therefore likely 
authorised someone to carry them out. I dont think Mr X being outside the UK gives any 
indication to whether he did or did not do this. 
Mr Xs representatives say Santander hasnt done enough in relation to gathering relevant 
information like particulars of the payee, IP addresses or CCTV footage. Id already said in 
my provisional decision there are ways to circumvent IP addresses. Also, the level of 
investigation required, and legal powers needed to be as comprehensive as suggested is 
likely to be best suited to the Police.
Ive also said Mr X likely authorised a third party to carry out these payments, so I would 
expect to see an individual or individuals other than Mr X carrying them out. After all, he 
wasnt in the UK. 
Id already said in my provisional decision I wasnt placing any weight on Mr X not going to 
the Police sooner. So I dont need to engage any further with this point. 
Account review, closure and withholding of funds 
Mr Xs representatives say any remaining funds should be returned to him. And that no 
anti-money laundering (AML) concerns were raised by the time of the deposits. Ive 
considered this carefully and having done that I wont be departing from what I said in my 
provisional decision about this. 
So, having seen the reasons Santander has withheld Mr Xs funds after reviewing and 
closing the account, and given the obligations it must adhere to, I think it is acting fairly by 
holding the funds. Neither Santander nor I, are under any obligation, which Im aware of, to 
disclose these reasons. 
So, in conclusion, Ive decided its most likely Mr X authorised someone to make the 
transactions he disputes, and Santander have done nothing wrong by withholding any 
residual funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman