DRN-2078806
The complaint
Mrs P complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly approved her as a guarantor for a loan for 
someone else (the borrower). Mrs P says UK Credit Limited didnt completed proportionate 
checks to establish whether shed be able to sustainably repay the loan if required to do so.
What happened
The borrower approached UK Credit for a loan in January 2019. Mrs P was asked to be the 
guarantor for the loan. The loan can be summarised as below:
Date of loan Amount 
(capital)Term Monthly 
repaymentInterest Total 
amount of 
loan
January 
2019£5,000 48 months £222.59 53.9% £10,684.32
Mrs P says UK Credit didnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks. And had it 
done so it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her should she be required to 
make payments. She says she has lost out as a result of UK Credits decision to approve her 
for the loan by paying for additional interest and charges. Mrs P says at the time she was 
approved as a guarantor she had insufficient money to meet any repayments. 
UK Credit looked into Mrs Ps complaint and felt its decision to approve her as a guarantor 
was a fair one. It says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving 
her as a guarantor. It says it completed an assessment of Mrs Ps income and her 
outgoings. UK Credit also completed a credit check on Mrs P. It says these checks 
combined demonstrated that Mrs P would be able to afford the repayment should she be 
required to meet them.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He felt further checks shouldve 
been completed. And had UK Credit done this, it wouldve realised the loan repayments 
were unsustainable to Mrs P should she be required to make them. In coming to this 
conclusion our investigator requested Mrs P provide our service with copies of her bank 
statements. UK Credit also made the same request when it reviewed Mrs Ps initial 
complaint.
Mrs P provided our service and UK Credit with copies of her joint account with her husband 
 Mr P. This account shows Mrs and Mr Ps joint income going into the account as well as 
their joint outgoings. Our investigator as well as UK Credit agreed that as all outgoings were 
in a joint name it was difficult to establish which commitments relate to Mrs P solely. As such 
our investigator divided all income and outgoings in half. This left Mrs P with a sole 
disposable income of approximately £260. As such our investigator felt Mrs P would only be 
left with a small amount of disposable income per month if Mrs P were to be required to 
meet the monthly repayment from UK Credit. UK Credit followed the same approach when 
assessing Mrs Ps complaint but disagreed it meant she had insufficient income to meet the 
monthly repayment should Mrs P be required to pay it.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint. In relation to 
the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the time, there 
are four overarching questions which form our approach. These are:
1. Did UK Credit obtain Mrs Ps properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement? 
2. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs P to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
o If so, did it make a fair decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs P would have been able to do so?
3. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so? 
 
4. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
For reasons that will become apparent further on I have not addressed all the questions Ive 
set out. Instead, Ive started by considering whether UK Credit completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mrs P to satisfy itself that she was in apposition to make the 
payments to this loan in the event she had to.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand 
if Mrs P would be able to make the loan payments in the event she had to. Essentially this 
meant that it needed to conduct similar affordability checks on Mrs P to those reasonably 
expected for the borrower. The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to 
complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include 
things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing 
expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
UK Credit was required to ensure that Mrs P could sustainably meet the repayments without 
adversely affecting her financial position, should she be required to do so, given that she 
was equally liable with the borrower for this debt.
UK Credit says it completed a credit search, as well as an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs P. It says based on these checks, Mrs P had enough disposable income 
to meet the payments should she become liable to make them. It therefore says the loan repayments wouldve been affordable, and its decision to approve her as a guarantor was 
reasonable.
Ive considered what UK Credit has said about the affordability of the loan based on the 
checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree these checks were proportionate in this 
instance. 
I say this because the size and length of the loan which Mrs P was guaranteeing was 
sizeable - £5,000 in capital over 48 monthly instalments. In addition to this, the credit file 
search which UK Credit completed demonstrated that Mrs P had a number of outstanding 
debts which was linked to defaulted accounts. In total, Mrs P had seven historic defaults 
registered on her credit file. These relate to store and mail order cards. Mrs P also had a 
CCJ recorded against her. Whilst this information alone, doesnt mean UK Credit shouldnt 
have allowed Mrs P to be a guarantor, it does indicate someone who may potentially have 
issues managing their finances and their credit commitments. And as such I think UK Credit 
shouldve got a thorough understanding of Mrs Ps financial situation. 
UK Credit couldve achieved this by obtaining Mrs Ps bank statements at the time the loan 
was being approved for the borrower. I note that UK Credit did request copies of the 
statements once Mrs P complained to it.
Mrs P has also provided copies of her bank statements to our service. These are for a joint 
account with her husband. Mrs P has confirmed this is her only current account. This 
account shows Mrs and Mr Ps joint income going into the account as well as their joint 
outgoings. Our investigator and UK Credit took the approach to divide Mrs and Mr Ps 
income and outgoings equally as it was hard to separate out the relevant sole commitments. 
I think this is a reasonable approach to take in this instance, as it appears that Mrs and Mr 
Ps finances are so intrinsically linked. 
By following this approach, it showed Mrs P had a sole amount of disposable income of 
around £260 each month. This means that should Mrs P be required to meet the monthly 
repayment then she would be left with a very small surplus each month  around £40. 
Considering the term of the loan could potentially be up to 48 months; I dont think it is 
reasonable to say this was a sufficient amount remaining on a monthly basis to meet the 
payment sustainably. 
In addition to this, when reviewing these statements, it is also clear to see that Mr and Mrs P 
were managing their joint finances to a tight budget. The months leading up to the 
borrowers application show that the account moved in and out of an overdraft, with a very 
small budget remaining at the end of each month.  As UK Credit is aware, it needs to be 
satisfied the guarantor can make any potential repayments in a sustainable way. This means 
meeting payments without undue difficulty or without having to borrow further money. I think 
the information from Mrs Ps bank statements show she was unlikely to meet any potential 
repayments sustainably.
So, taking all of this into consideration Im not persuaded that Mrs P wouldve been able to 
meet the monthly payments in a sustainable way should they have become due. And Im 
satisfied UK Credit ought to have realised this too had it conduct further checks at the time it 
approved Mrs P as a guarantor. And on this basis, Im satisfied UK Credits decision to 
approve Mrs P as a guarantor was unreasonable. 
As Ive already found that Mrs P shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor on for this 
loan as I think proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown that shed be 
unable to sustainably make the payments in the event she had to, I dont think that any 
findings that I may make in relation to the remaining questions, will materially affect Mrs Ps position. As such while I note the findings that our investigator made, I make no finding on 
whether UK Credit obtained Mrs Ps properly informed consent to the agreement or on 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards the borrower when deciding to provide this 
loan. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require UK Credit Limited to:
To release Mrs P from any obligations she has under the Guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Mrs P has made towards the loan with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Mrs Ps credit file as a result of the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman