DRN-3932837
Complaint
Miss N has complained about logbook loans Mobile Money Limited (Mobile Money) 
provided to her. She says she was already in a cycle of debt and that it was too easy to get 
top up loans.
Background
Mobile Money provided Miss M with four logbook loans in total. The first of which was for 
£1,000.00 and taken in December 2015. This loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments of £118.90. Loan 1 was settled in full after Miss M made three monthly 
instalments. 
Miss M was then provided with a second logbook loan in October 2017, which was 19 
months after loan 1 had been settled. This was a loan for £2,500.00 and was due to be 
repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £229.88 per month.
Loan 2 was settled early with some of the proceeds from loan 3 which Mobile Money 
provided in May 2018. Loan 3 was for a total of £2,759.78, £800 of which was further funds 
advanced to Miss M and £1,959.78 went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 2, 
and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £253.77. 
Loan 3 was settled early with some of the proceeds of loan 4 which Mobile Money provided 
in October 2018. Loan 4 was for a total of £5,072.07, £3,000 of which was further funds 
advanced to Miss M and £2,072.07 went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 3, 
and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £287.72.
Weve already explained why were unable to look at Miss Ms complaint about loan 1. And 
weve only looked at Miss Ms complaint about loans 2 to 4. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed what Miss N and Mobile Money had told us. And he thought that he hadnt been 
provided with enough information to demonstrate that proportionate checks would have 
prevented  Mobile Money from providing loans 2 to 4 Miss M. So he didnt uphold Miss Ns 
complaint. 
Miss N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ns complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mobile Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Mobile Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss N could afford to repay before providing these loans. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mobile Money provided Miss N with logbook loans for £2,000.00 in October 2017, £2,759.78 
in May 2018 and £5,072.07 in October 2018. Loans 2 and 3 were due to be repaid in 18 
instalments and loan 4 had a 36-month term. 
Mobile Money says it agreed to Miss Ns applications after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a soft 
credit search it carried out on Miss N and payslips that it asked her to provide to evidence 
her income. In its view, the income and expenditure information obtained showed that             
Miss N would be able to make the repayments she was committing to. Mobile Money says, 
in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend to Miss N on each occasion. 
On the other hand, Miss N has said she was in cycle of debt and that these loans worsened 
her position. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss N and Mobile Money have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that Mobile Money did carry out external checks and didnt simply rely on what it 
was told. It carried out credit checks which showed Miss Ms total indebtedness was 
reasonable compared to her income on each occasion and having looked at the credit 
checks I cant see anything on them to indicate that Miss N had previously had significant 
difficulties repaying credit. 
It looks like Miss N was asked to provide copies of payslips and she confirmed that she was 
living at home with parents and paid around £150 a month in board and bill contributions. So 
at face value, at least, the monthly repayments for all of these loans did appear affordable. 
That said, bearing in mind Miss M was provided with three loans in a relatively short period 
of time and Miss M had missed some credit card payments in the past, I do think that it 
would have been proportionate for Mobile Money to have taken further steps to obtain some 
more detailed information on Miss Ms living costs. In my view, Mobile Money needed to get 
a better understanding of why Miss M was taking out this many loans despite having a 
reasonable amount of disposable income each month.
Where a firm failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before arranging a loan 
or loans, Id usually go on to recreate reasonable and proportionate checks in order to get an 
indication of what such checks would more likely than not have shown. However, Miss M 
hasnt provided us with the information weve asked her for in order to be able to assess 
what her circumstances were like at the time she applied for the loans. And without this 
information Im simply unable to ascertain whether proportionate checks would have 
prevented Mobile Money from lending to her.Furthermore, bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayments in relation to her       
Miss Ms income and the fact that she managed to repay the loans, I cant reasonably 
conclude that the loans in themselves were demonstrably unaffordable, notwithstanding 
being unable to recreate what proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Finally, Ive also considered whether Mobile Money ought reasonably to have realised that it 
was increasing Miss Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Miss M says that it was too easy to get top-ups to her loans and that her cycle of debt was 
made worse by this. 
However, loan 1 was settled very quickly. And it was over a year and a half before Miss M 
was provided with loan 2. So I dont think loan 1 is a relevant consideration in relation to this 
matter, as I dont think that Miss M could possibly have taken loan 2 to cover any possible 
hole left in her finances by loan 1. 
And while additional funds were advanced at the times loans 3 and 4 were provided, Im 
mindful that the credit checks provided didnt suggest that Miss Ms external indebtedness 
was increasing. Furthermore, Miss M only ended up owing Mobile Money for a total period of 
48 months  in circumstances where her final loan had a 36-month term and her monthly 
repayments for loan 4 werent that much higher either. 
Ive also noted that a further application for a loan was turned down in April 2019. The 
information on file suggests that this was because Miss Ms external indebtedness had 
increased in the period since loan 4 was provided. So while I think that there were some 
warning signs to be noted as a result of the applications for loans 3 and 4, it seems to me 
that Mobile Money heeded them and correctly refused Miss Ms application for a fifth loan in 
April 2019 and she ended up repaying loan 4 on time and in line with the original schedule. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Mobile Money didnt increase Miss Ms indebtedness in 
a way that unsustainable or otherwise harmful.   
I accept Miss Ns actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than she let on. 
And I know that her debts elsewhere increased after she was provided with loan 4. But the 
key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And without anything which clearly demonstrates that 
proportionate checks would have shown Miss Ns loans to have been unaffordable, Im 
simply not in a position to find that this was the case here. 
So overall, Ive not been persuaded that Mobile Money did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Miss N. Ive not been persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have shown the loans to have been individually unaffordable. And loans 3 and 4 were 
provided in circumstances where Miss Ns indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss N. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman