DRN-3374506
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) reacted following an error it made 
with her personal details. 
What happened
Mrs S was making an online payment when she discovered her surname was spelt 
incorrectly on her account. She tried unsuccessfully to call the bank, and when she couldnt 
get through via telephone, she paid a visit to her local branch. However, following the visit, 
nothing happened so she called again, and this time the error was rectified.  
However, Mrs S cant understand how such an important change to her personal details 
could be made without her permission. Mrs S says the amendment left her exposed to 
fraudulent activity and shes worried about the security of her money. Mrs S wants 
assurances that BoS has the relevant checks and controls in place to assure her this wont 
happen again. She says the security systems put in place by BoS have failed, in particular 
real-time checks and biometric checks. 
BoS wrote to Mrs S and said it was unsure how the error happened, but the error had now 
been rectified. It apologised and offered Mrs S £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
However, Mrs S remained unhappy and she complained to our service. An investigator 
looked at the complaint and said BoS had done enough to put things right for Mrs S. 
But Mrs S doesnt agree, and shes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
In its final response to Mrs S BoS said it was unsure of how Mrs Ss surname was 
changed. But it said the surname was now corrected and it offered Mrs S £150 in 
compensation for its error. But I think BoS initially misunderstood how concerned Mrs S was 
and Mrs S is at a loss as to why BoS just dismissed the issue and treated her so flippantly.
I think BoS missed an opportunity to explain to Mrs S what happened. And this has made 
things worse. Its only since the complaint has come to this service that BoS has sought to 
find out what happened. BoS has explained that at the end of March 2021 it undertook an 
exercise to amalgamate some old accounts it had belonging to Mrs S under one profile. 
When the profiles merged the surname was picked up from the oldest profile, and this 
surname was mis-spelt. BoS cant explain why Mrs Ss surname was mis-spelt on the old 
profile and this has led Mrs S to question the banks security systems. Shes questioned how 
her surname couldve been wrong for so long on this profile, and how it could be possible 
that a customers name could get changed and changed incorrectly and yet this wasnt 
flagged as an issue.
BoS has advised that there was an error on the old profile, which is too old to investigate 
now. I can see that some of the accounts on the old profile go as far back as 1991. So, I 
agree, it would be difficult to go back that far to find out what happened. Security systems 
werent as robust back then so its possible a spelling error was made on the system that 
was never picked up.
However, I can see Mrs Ss point about the most recent change. Ive no issue with the 
merge, these things are necessary as systems and technology advances. But I agree with 
Mrs S, if the system was changing a personal detail such as a surname, how come Mrs S 
wasnt sent a notification or a text. It does raise the question about the security measures 
BoS says it has in place such as the confirmation of payee or system biometrics. This 
couldve caused numerous problems if Mrs S was using this account more regularly. 
But I need to be mindful of the fact that no problems arose because of the mis-spelt 
surname. Mrs S noticed it before any problems arose and even though BoS didnt act 
immediately, it did rectify the issue.
I know Mrs S is concerned and wants to know if further compensation is required. I 
acknowledge all her concerns and I can see why she was distressed, worried and frustrated. 
But Im not a regulator. I dont have the power to investigate the way BoS operates on a day 
to day basis, nor can I ask it to change its systems. And its not within my remit to punish 
BoS, or any individual employee. My job is to consider the evidence provided by both 
parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all 
of the circumstances of this particular complaint.
BoS has admitted its error and once this was highlighted the error was rectified, although 
this didnt happen immediately. BoS has apologised that the branch didnt come back to Mrs 
S and that it was dismissive of the issues. It says it appreciates the severity of the issue and 
it shares Mrs Ss disappointment at not being able to provide concrete answers as to how 
this happened.
In order to decide if BoS acted fairly here, Ive thought about what happened and how BoS 
dealt with it. I agree BoS shouldve provided a better reason for what had happened. It didnt 
investigate Mrs Ss issue properly at the time, and it just offered compensation. BoS didnt 
seem to understand that Mrs S was genuinely concerned about the security measures BoS 
has in place, and I agree that Mrs S has been caused distress and inconvenience. 
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. Well ask 
about what happened, and the impact it had on a consumers life. If an error has caused 
more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-
day life, and the impact has been more than just minimal such as a single mistake, requiring 
a reasonable effort or a few weeks to sort out, then an award between £100 and £300 might 
be fair.
This is a single mistake that has taken a few weeks to sort out. There were no financial 
consequences to the error. And even though Mrs S was inconvenienced and worried and 
she did have to complain, for this type of error we would usually require a business to put 
things right and pay a compensation amount of between £100 to £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. In this instance even though BoS didnt initially conduct a proper 
investigation, it has offered Mrs S £150 for what happened. So even though Im disappointed 
that BoS didnt take Mrs Ss concerns more seriously, it has now rectified the issue and 
offered an appropriate amount of compensation, which BoS should now pay if it hasnt already done so. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the 
reasons Ive set out above. Because of this Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be 
asking BoS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman