DRN-4326883
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain in relation to windows they purchased that were financed with a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited.
They are represented in this complaint by a third party, but for ease of reference Ill refer to 
submissions made by the third party as being made by Mrs H and Mr H.
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs H and Mr H were visited by a representative of a company Ill call A 
and subsequently entered into a contract with A to purchase windows with a cash price of 
£7,183.34. This purchase was financed with a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook 
Bank Limited (Shawbrook). The total amount payable under the agreement was 
£14,991.48 and Mrs H and Mr H were required to pay 96 monthly payments of £155.13.
Mrs H and Mr H complained to Shawbrook in 2019. They believed the credit agreement was 
mis-sold to them and that they were given a financial discount by A as an incentive to enter 
into this without being given time to fully understand the implications of this.
Shawbrook didnt agree the agreement had been mis-sold and so Mrs H and Mr H referred 
their complaint to our service. In doing so, Mrs H and Mr H said the following:
A inflated the initial price for the windows before applying discounts to give the 
impression of a bargain. A also said these discounts were on offer for a limited time 
to pressure them into making a decision there and then.
They could have paid for the windows in cash but were told they wouldnt get the 
discounts or warranty if they didnt use the package recommended by A.
A failed to tell them that they would get a commission for introducing them to 
Shawbrook.
The cash price of the windows was shown as different figures on the contract with A 
and the credit agreement with Shawbrook. As such, Shawbrook improperly executed 
the credit agreement, and the sale of the goods was misrepresented to them.
Shawbrook didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks in respect of the credit 
agreement.
As contract showed an incorrect cancellation period of seven days rather than the 
permitted fourteen days.
Mrs H and Mr H said that Shawbrook should rescind the credit agreement and refund them 
all monies they paid to it, with interest.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that A had misled Mrs H and Mr H into entering the credit agreement with Shawbrook and it 
wasnt unreasonable they were provided with a discount on the windows. He also felt the 
price of the windows shown on As contract matched that shown on the credit agreement. 
And he said Mrs H and Mr H were given a cooling off period of 14 days by both A and 
Shawbrook and they hadnt sought to cancel the contract or credit agreement at any point 
prior to their complaint.
So, our investigator felt no breach of contract or misrepresentation had taken place, which 
meant he felt that Shawbrook hadnt handled Mrs H and Mr Hs claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 unreasonably.
Our investigator also considered Shawbrooks affordability checks. He said, in summary, that 
he wasnt satisfied Shawbrook had carried out proportionate affordability checks. However, 
he felt that, had they done so, it likely would have shown the agreement was affordable for 
Mrs H and Mr H.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 August 2023, in which I said the 
following and which forms part of my final decision:
Since we received Mrs H and Mr Hs response to our investigators view, weve asked them 
(via their representative) to confirm what they would like covered in this decision. This is 
because their response to the view only covered the affordability of the agreement.
Mrs H and Mr H have since set out that they would like me to consider that aspect. But also, 
that As customer illustration form wasnt compliant with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) or the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
I am therefore only concentrating on these particular complaint points in my decision, which I 
shall deal with in turn.
The customer illustration form
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant here. This sets out that statements made by a supplier in 
relation to a transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing 
arrangements between a credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as an 
agent for the creditor.
The FCA Principles for Businesses (PRIN) are also of relevance.
PRIN 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7 says A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
CONC also applies and is of relevance. In particular,
CONC 1.2.2 R
A firm must:
(1) ensure that its employees and agents comply with CONC; and
(2) take reasonable steps to ensure that other persons acting on its behalf comply with 
CONC.
CONC 2.5.3 R concerning credit brokers states:(1)where it has responsibility for doing so, explain the key features of a regulated credit 
agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 
4.2.5R;
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering into 
it..
CONC 3.3.1 sets out that:
(1)
A firm should ensure that each communication and each financial promotion:
(a) is clearly identifiable as such;
(b) is accurate
(c) is balanced and should not emphasise any potential benefits of a product or service 
without also giving a fair and prominent indication of any relevant risks;
(d) is sufficient for, and presented in a way that is likely to be understood by, the average 
member of the group to whom it is directed, or by whom it is likely to be received; and
(e) does not disguise, diminish, or obscure important information, statements, or warnings.
(1B)
A firm must ensure that, where a communication or financial promotion contains a 
comparison or contrast, the comparison or contrast is presented in a fair and balanced way 
and is meaningful.
A gave Mrs H and Mr H a customer illustration form which detailed the various discounts that 
they would get if they bought the windows. It detailed the starting price of the goods and then 
the price after the various discounts were applied. There are various reductions to the price 
of the goods and there appears to be one that is specific to signing up to the finance 
agreement.
The price of the goods starts at £8,675.86 and then, after what was called a Gold Discount 
of £1,492.52, the price was reduced to £7,183.34. The illustration shows that Mrs H and 
Mr H paid a deposit of £99 which reduced the amount that needed to be financed to 
£7,084.34. Both the deposit amount and the amount to be financed Ive mentioned above 
are shown on the credit agreement with Shawbrook. So, Im satisfied that there was no 
variance in the figures shown in the contract with A and the finance agreement with 
Shawbrook.
I find that the customer illustration was largely clear, in that it set out the discounts that were 
being offered, the total amount of the windows after these had been applied and the amount 
that needed to be financed. It also appears that Mrs H and Mr H were shown this illustration 
before they entered into the agreement with Shawbrook. The illustration, in my view, 
explained reasonably clearly and prominently the incentive for entering into the finance in 
context of the total charge for credit  and how much Mrs H and Mr H would have to pay back in total at various points depending on how fast they repaid the loan, that would enable 
them to benefit from the incentives offered by A.
I note that Mrs H and Mr H have said that the customer illustration wasnt compliant with the 
CCA or CONC because it didnt show the document fee, the interest and the total amount 
payable under the credit agreement in the examples shown on how they could potentially 
pay less overall if they increased their monthly payments. I agree that the illustration could 
have been clearer in that regard. Im not though bound to solely make a finding on whether 
the illustration wasnt compliant as Mrs H and Mr H say. I am also considering matters 
overall. And overall, Im persuaded that the illustration was reasonably clear on the possible 
benefits that could have accrued if Mrs H and Mr H repaid the loan earlier. I also find that A 
likely explained the key features of their proposed contract and the associated regulated 
agreement with Shawbrook clearly to Mrs H and Mr H to enable them to make an informed 
choice.
The affordability of the credit agreement
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are particular questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These questions are:
1. Did Shawbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
and Mr H would be able to repay their agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs H and Mr H would 
have been able to sustainably repay the agreement?
Before granting credit, Shawbrook were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Hs and Mr Hs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred 
to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed.
This means it needed to be concerned with whether Mrs H and Mr H could sustainably afford 
the borrowing (considering their specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely 
they were to repay. The latter is the risk posed to Shawbrook as the lender, or its credit risk 
but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on several factors such 
as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit; 
The total repayable and the size of the repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.The total amount repayable on the credit agreement was £14,991.48 over 96 months and 
Mrs H and Mr H were required to make monthly payments of £155.13.
Shawbrook say they dont have much information about the checks they carried out as 
Mrs H and Mr Hs application went straight through their system with no supporting 
documentation being required. I gather though that Shawbrook asked them about their 
income and their employment status and that they carried out a credit check.
Shawbrooks records show that Mr H said in his application that he was working full time with 
an annual salary of £20,000, and that Mrs H said she wasnt working.
Ive looked at the result of the credit check that Shawbrook carried out. This showed 
Shawbrook that Mr H had two actively used credit cards and that hed recently taken out two 
new hire purchase agreements. It also showed that Mrs H had an active credit card. From 
looking at the data shown on the credit check, the balances on the credit cards were £147, 
£1,477 and £309 against limits of £8,250, £13,600 and £2,000 respectively. It also showed 
that Mrs H and Mr H hadnt missed any payments towards these accounts recently. So, they 
appeared to be managing these accounts without any apparent difficulties and werent 
showing any obvious signs of over-indebtedness.
However, bearing in mind that the credit check also showed that Mr H was committed to 
paying £367 and £374 towards new hire purchase agreements, and that Mrs H and Mr H 
would need to pay down their credit card accounts, I think Shawbrook should have at least 
asked Mrs H and Mr H questions about their expenditure and not just relied on the credit 
check.
The credit check likely would have shown Shawbrook how Mrs H and Mr H had managed 
their existing and past credit commitments. Shawbrook would therefore have gathered some 
idea of what other expenses Mrs H and Mr H had, but they wouldnt have known what they 
spent on essential living costs.
So, I dont see how Shawbrook could have satisfied itself that Mrs H and Mr H had sufficient 
disposable income to cover the cost of the financial arrangement with them. Im not satisfied 
therefore that Shawbrook carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks.
I cant be sure what information and evidence Shawbrook would have asked for or received 
had they carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment. However, 
given the size of the borrowing, the income Mr H had declared, and the extent of the existing 
credit commitments that Mrs H and Mr H had at the time, I do think Shawbrook ought to 
have verified Mr Hs income and asked Mrs H and Mr H about their expenditure, so Ive 
considered what I think they would likely have discovered had they done this.
Mrs H and Mr H have provided us with their bank statements which gives me a reasonable 
approximation of their income and committed monthly expenditure.
I can see that income totalling just under £2,200 went into Mr Hs bank account in the month 
before Mrs H and Mr H entered into the finance agreement with Shawbrook. So, it seems 
likely that this was the figure that would have been disclosed to them had they asked Mr H to 
verify this. Ive gone on to assess from the bank statements what Mrs H and Mr H would 
have likely told Shawbrook had they asked them for details about their committed monthly 
expenditure. I appreciate this has an element of theory because I cant be sure what would 
have been disclosed at the time. However, looking at Mrs H and Mr Hs regular committed 
monthly expenditure for the three months leading up to the finance, including utilities, 
phone/broadband costs, insurance and council tax, their monthly expenditure was around £600. If I add the hire purchase amounts of £367 and £374, that takes this up to around 
£1,300.
I can also see that Mr H had paid fairly high amounts towards the credit card accounts 
before the finance was entered into. This left the balances (as set out earlier in this decision) 
relatively low in comparison to the respective limits. So, I dont think Mrs H and Mr H would 
have told Shawbrook that they would have continued to pay these high amounts. I think that 
Shawbrook would have been entitled to think that Mrs H and Mr H would have set around 
£100 to £150 for this in total each month. I accept this is largely guesswork and Ive already 
said its difficult to know for sure what would have been disclosed. But I think the figure Ive 
used here is reasonable.
So, had Shawbrook asked Mrs H and Mr H for details of their income and expenditure, I 
think this would likely have shown them that they had around £800 spare to meet the 
monthly repayments of the finance agreement and food costs, as well as any unexpected 
costs.
Ive thought about whether Shawbrook should have done further checks, perhaps by 
verifying their expenditure, because of the number of existing credit commitments 
Mrs H and Mr H had. In other words, to determine whether they were overcommitting by 
taking out further credit. I dont think though that Mrs H and Mr H having those existing credit 
commitments should have concerned Shawbrook in that way. Its not uncommon for people 
to have existing credit commitments and I dont think the number of these should have 
alerted Shawbrook. It also seems that Mrs H and Mr H werent struggling to meet these 
commitments at the time.
I think that, had Shawbrook completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, its 
likely they would still have concluded the agreement was affordable. I therefore dont think 
Shawbrook needs to do anything in respect of the argument of affordability thats been made 
by Mrs H and Mr H.
For the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to reply to my provisional decision. 
Shawbrook didnt reply.
Mrs H and Mr H responded asking me to consider the testimony of As salesman they sent 
when they submitted their complaint to us. They also reiterated that the customer illustration 
form wasnt compliant with CONC and the CCA and said while they understood my findings 
about the affordability of the finance agreement, the fact they had to ask for help from a debt 
charity proves beyond reasonable doubt that it was unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs H and Mr H for their comments on my provisional decision, and I will 
now address them. 
Mrs H and Mr H have asked me to consider the testimony of As salesman who I gather 
arranged the sale of the windows and brokered the finance agreement with Shawbrook. I 
have considered what hes said, however its difficult to know how impartial these comments are bearing in mind he is a former employee of A rather than a current one. I dont for 
example know the circumstances around why the salesman no longer works for them. So, I 
dont find I can rely on his comments as reasonably solid proof that the sales process 
involving Mrs H and Mr H was flawed. 
In respect of the customer illustration form, I realise Mrs H and Mr H feel this wasnt 
compliant with CONC and the CCA. I did though address this in my provisional decision and 
Ive not been provided with anything on this point that hasnt already been sent for my 
consideration. 
So, I see no reason to change what I said in my provisional decision about this, which is that 
Im persuaded that the illustration was reasonably clear on the possible benefits that could 
have accrued if Mrs H and Mr H repaid the loan earlier. And that A likely explained the key 
features of their proposed contract and the associated regulated agreement with Shawbrook 
clearly to Mrs H and Mr H to enable them to make an informed choice.
Mrs H and Mr H have said they sought help from a debt advice charity. Im sorry to hear they 
needed to take those steps as I can appreciate this would have been a stressful situation for 
them. 
However, I dont find this then shows that the finance agreement with Shawbrook was 
unaffordable. As I set out in my provisional decision, the key was whether Shawbrook took 
reasonable steps to assess the affordability and sustainability of the agreement, and that 
would mean the information they could and should have considered at the time of the 
application. I explained why I felt that Shawbrook didnt carry out proportionate affordability 
checks but also that they likely would have considered the agreement to be affordable and 
sustainable had they done so. Ive not been provided with any further comments around 
these points. I see no reason therefore to depart from the provisional conclusion I reached 
on this. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out above including those set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman