DRN-2303791
The complaint
Mr B complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (trading at the time as Pearl Assurance) 
failed to provide him with a fair offer when he chose to take an annuity in 1999. He says that 
the correspondence at the time didnt take into account his personal circumstances or make 
him aware that he could purchase an annuity from another provider.
What happened
Mr Bs pension was set up with Pearl Assurance. That company is now part of Phoenix, and 
so Phoenix is responsible for dealing with Mr Bs complaint. Although Mr B had no direct 
contact with Phoenix at the time I will, for simplicity, generally refer to that business 
throughout this decision.
Mr B started making contributions to a personal pension with Phoenix in 1978. In 1996 he 
first requested a quotation from Phoenix to take his benefits  at that time he was required to 
take an annuity for the majority of his benefits. He decided not to proceed with taking his 
benefits and continued making contributions to his pension savings.
In 1999 Mr B again considered he might take his pension benefits and so asked Phoenix to 
provide him with revised quotations. A telephone note from the time says that Mr B asked 
the quotation to be on the basis of a single life, with a lump sum, with no death benefits, and 
with 0% annual increases.
Phoenix sent some quotations to Mr B on 12 May 1999. Those quotations provided Mr B 
with a number of different options for putting his pension savings into payment. And they 
also explained that other options were available and that Mr B could request revised 
quotations for those options from Phoenix. The quotations that were sent to him were 
guaranteed for a period of around six weeks. But Phoenix also noted that should the 
guarantee period have expired, a fresh quotation could be issued, although it made Mr B 
aware that the annuity rates being used could go down, as well as up.
In 2004 Phoenix noticed that it had made an error in its calculation of the tax free pension 
commencement lump sum that was paid to Mr B  he could have received a higher amount. 
So it offered to pay Mr B that additional lump sum, plus interest, in exchange for a reduction 
in the annuity it was paying to him. Mr B accepted that offer and the necessary payments 
were made to him.
In 2019 Mr B raised his complaint to Phoenix about what happened in 1999. He says that he 
saw press coverage about similar circumstances to his that suggested Phoenix might have 
failed to provide him with a fair annuity rate. Phoenix didnt agree with Mr Bs complaint so 
he brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Phoenix had mis-sold the annuity to Mr B. So she didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been in if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence between Phoenix and Mr B when he asked for 
annuity quotations in 1999. From that I havent seen anything to suggest that Phoenix was 
providing Mr B with advice, or a recommendation, about how to proceed. So Phoenix didnt 
need to make sure that the chosen annuity was suitable for Mr Bs circumstances, or the 
best deal that he could get in the market  that was essentially a decision he needed to 
make for himself. But Phoenix did need to make sure that it gave Mr B clear, fair and not 
misleading information on which he could base that decision.
Mr B told Phoenix in the initial telephone call the sorts of terms on which he wanted the 
annuity to be structured. The records of that phone call say he asked for quotations on the 
basis of a single life, with a lump sum, with no death benefits, and with 0% annual increases. 
And I can see that the quotations that Phoenix sent were generally structured in line with 
those instructions.
But the letter Phoenix sent to Mr B with the quotations also provided him with some other, 
important, information. It told him that he could request other quotations and that for example 
the pension could increase each year by 3% or 5%. Or that a pension could be payable to 
his spouse after his death. And it also told him that although the quotations were only 
guaranteed for a period of around six weeks, fresh quotations could be issued at a later 
date, albeit based on the annuity rates current at the new date. The letter also made it clear 
that it was possible for Mr B to use his pension savings to purchase his retirement income 
from another provider.
Mr B accepted the quotation that Phoenix sent him around two weeks after it had been 
received and his pension annuity was put into payment.I have also seen that Phoenix had sent some annuity quotations to Mr B earlier in 1999 as 
well as the ones it sent in 1996. Those quotations had a similar guarantee period that 
expired. So I think it would have been clear to Mr B when looking at the quotations issued in 
May 1999 that he wasnt under any time pressure to accept them. He would have known at 
that time that he could request new quotations if he needed more time. And the quotations 
he received in May were slightly better than the ones hed received earlier in the year  so 
I dont think he would reasonably have believed that he might be penalised if he didnt 
accept the quotations in time.
So in summary I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude Phoenix did 
something wrong when it sold the annuity to Mr B in 1999. It didnt provide Mr B with any 
advice, so it was up to Mr B to decide whether the quotation Phoenix was providing was 
competitive and suitable for his circumstances. If not, he was told he could seek quotations 
on different terms, or from alternative providers. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think that Phoenix unfairly pressured Mr B to make a decision about how to proceed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman