DRN-4293949
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a used vehicle that was supplied through a conditional 
sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall). 
What happened
In June 2021, Mr E acquired a used vehicle through a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall. The car was about two years and nine months old and had travelled 71,000 miles 
when it was supplied. The cash price of the vehicle was £22,990. Mr E paid a deposit of 
£7,990. So, the total amount financed on the agreement was £15,000 payable over 60 
months.
In November 2022, Mr E complained that the engine failed after around four months of use. 
Mr E said he hasnt been able to use the car for about two years. He said hes had to acquire 
a replacement vehicle. 
Mr E says this has affected him financially, having paid over £10,000 on repairs. He would 
like reimbursement of the costs hes paid or to be allowed to reject the vehicle, replace it with 
a roadworthy vehicle and to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
In December 2022, Vauxhall issued their final response to Mr Es complaint, which they 
didnt uphold. Vauxhall said Mr E complained more than six months after supply, and 
provided no expert evidence that the vehicles engine was faulty when it was supplied to 
him.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr E brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file one of our investigators recommended that Mr Es 
complaint should not be upheld. The investigator concluded that it was unlikely the fault with 
the engine was present at the point of supply, given Mr E was able to travel around 4,500 
miles.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He provided a timeline of the repairs 
to the vehicle and said he didnt accept it met the standards for durability, safety and fitness 
for purpose. As the investigators view remained unchanged, Mr E asked that his complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Vauxhall is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Vauxhall supplied Mr E with a used vehicle that had travelled 71,000 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage which may impact its overall quality and reliability, so 
thered be an increased likelihood of unforeseen problems surfacing sooner than in a new 
vehicle.  
Having said that, the car was priced at £22,990 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a 
particularly old vehicle. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could offer a reasonable duration without any major issues.
From the information provided, Im persuaded there was a fault with the vehicles engine. 
This is apparent from the invoice dated May 2022 for £4,500, detailing the works carried out 
on it, and from an invoice from the manufacturer garage, dated July 2022, for £6,095 for a 
replacement engine. Having considered the vehicles engine had a fault, Ive considered 
whether it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr E. 
Mr E provided a timeline of events which outlined that the gearbox had failed around two 
months after supply. Mr E also said the timing belt needed replacement soon after that. Mr E 
also provided copies of correspondence he sent to the dealership and what appears to be 
the broker, to highlight problems he was having with the gearbox, timing belt and concerns 
he had with the service history. 
I understand a complaint was raised about the above issues which was subsequently 
referred to our service and an investigators opinion was issued in August 2022. As this has 
already been addressed by our service I wont be looking into those issues in this decision. 
My decision is focussed on the failure of the engine and whether this failure means the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality, for this reason, when it was supplied to Mr E. 
satisfactory quality
In November 2022, Mr E complained to Vauxhall about the failure of the vehicles engine. 
This was around 18 months after acquiring it and having travelled about 4,500 miles in it.Mr E provided invoices dated from May and July 2022, for the costs of repairs and for a 
replacement engine. Mr E also provided commentary from the manufacturer garage, dated 
in May 2022, outlining what they discovered during a health check.
Considering Mr E completed around 4,500 miles without issue, I find it plausible that the 
faults may not have been present upon supply. The absence of evidence to link these faults 
to inherent issues or inadequate durability means Im not able to conclude that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. A comprehensive evaluation of the engine would 
likely determine whether the faults are a result of inherent issues or external factors. 
The commentary regarding the vehicle's engine faults, provided by the manufacturer garage 
lacks crucial details necessary for me to consider that it was a comprehensive diagnostic 
and root cause assessment. For example, it doesnt specify the cause or origin of the 
problem. 
I acknowledge Mr E said the engine was rebuilt in May 2022, and provided an invoice to 
support this; however, similar to the commentary from the manufacturer garage, the invoice 
details the issues without the cause. This information is vital when considering when the fault 
was likely to be developing and can give an indication as to whether the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I recognise a vehicles engine can fail for different reasons, such as poor maintenance or 
external factors; so, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think its reasonable that 
Vauxhall expected more evidence from Mr E, such as an independent professional 
inspection of the engine, which would likely indicate whether its failure was a result of 
external factors or from an inherent flaw within the engine. 
From the information provided, Im not persuaded the car was supplied to Mr E with a 
developing fault to its engine.
All things considered, whilst Im sure this would have been a difficult situation for Mr E, for 
the reasons given in my decision, Im persuaded the vehicle was likely to be of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require Vauxhall to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Vauxhall Finance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman