DRN-4316190
The complaint
Miss A and Mr M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt acted to expedite repairs to 
their car following a claim made on their motor insurance policy. Miss A is represented in this 
matter by Mr M, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mr M complains that, following a previous complaint and his acceptance of a final decision 
issued by our service, AXA has yet to repair their car, and this has caused them further 
stress. He was also unhappy that AXA had caused further damage to his car, a broken 
bonnet support arm and an oil leak. 
AXA agreed there had been service failings and it apologised for these. It paid Miss A £175 
compensation for its poor communication following the ombudsmans decision. AXA paid 
Miss A £100 more for not completing the outstanding rectification works and a further £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor repairs and their consequences. 
So AXA paid Miss A £475 in total compensation for its service failings. 
But Mr M said rectifications still hadnt been completed a month later. AXA arranged for the 
car to be repaired and an independent assessor agreed that it should renew the front 
bumper and grill and the bonnet stay catch. But he said the oil leak and a vibration to the 
rear of the car werent related to the original claim. Mr M was unhappy with this.
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA 
had apologised for its service failings and had paid Miss A a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for this. And she thought it was now actively pursuing the repairs that were 
related to the claim. 
Mr M replied that AXA had wrongly held him responsible for delays in making repairs. He 
said it had taken AXA ten months to ask for an independent assessors report. He said he 
was left stranded for three days when he wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and Miss A and to AXA on 1 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
I previously considered and issued a final decision on Miss A and Mr Ms complaint about 
the delays in the repairs that AXA caused following a claim. And I required, amongst other 
things, that AXA should expedite the repairs. AXA didnt do this promptly, and so Mr M 
complained again. It is this second complaint that I can consider here.
AXA said that it had difficulties in arranging the rectification with Mr M. It said he wanted to 
add an oil leak to the repairs. And Mr M told us that AXAs garage had called him to book in 
the car for repairs, but it wouldnt complete all the repairs he considered necessary. It took 
some time for the parties to reach this point. And I have considered this delay further below. 
But Mr M was unhappy that AXA said he was being difficult, and this delayed the rectification 
being done. 
I could understand that Mr M felt frustrated that his car hadnt been fully repaired. And I 
would usually say that AXA was only responsible for repairs and rectification work that were 
related to a claim or to poor repairs. AXA initially told Mr M that its engineers would need to 
approve any further rectification. But then AXA, in an effort to resolve the claim told its 
repairer, and Mr M, after it responded to his complaint:
there is additional damage, claimed to be associated to the poor work carried out initially 
by the original body shop, to the vehicle which we requested be investigated.
This was related to the following: fumes coming from the engine, sensor issues and some 
buzzing noises coming from the wheel/wheel arch area
We have since then also confirmed what is not covered under rectification, we will be 
approving as supplementary repairs so we can bring this matter to settlement.
But the repairer didnt act on AXAs instruction. It declined to make the repairs that Mr M said 
were needed and that AXA had authorised. It said Mr M also wanted an oil leak repaired. I 
hadnt seen that this was included on the list of supplementary repairs listed above. But I 
thought that if AXA intended to carry out these repairs to resolve matters, then it should have 
been included.  
I could see that AXA then commissioned an independent engineer to assess the repairs 
required to the car. We consider this an appropriate action where there is a dispute over the 
extent of repairs required. But I couldnt see why AXA did this when it had already agreed to 
carry out all the repairs Mr M alleged were claim related. 
As the Investigator had already explained that this service does not assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
The engineers report stated the following:
1. Front Grille not fitting correctly - to be renewed
2. Front bumper not fitted correctly, the front bumper and lower grille have recent damage 
present - to renew
3. Bonnet stay catch broken - to renew
4. Oil leak to engine - not related to original claim - no action
5. Vibration to rear when driving - not related to original claim no action
The engineer also considered the causes of the vibration and how it could be rectified. And 
he advised further investigation for the oil leak. These werent claim related, so AXA wouldnt 
normally be responsible for these costs. 
I couldnt see that AXA had any further expert engineering evidence to consider. So I would 
normally say it had justified its decision not to repair the oil leak or deal with the vibration 
issue. 
But, as Ive said above, AXA had already approved supplementary repairs and raised Mr Ms 
expectation that they would be included. It was now some six months since Mr M had 
accepted the previous final decision that required AXA to expedite the repairs. And so, to 
fairly resolve matters a further six months later, I thought all these repairs should now be 
carried out. 
This further delay and avoidable dispute has caused Mr M much upset and frustration. I 
thought he had patiently restated his case for his repairs and reasonably objected to being 
described as difficult when he had followed AXAs instructions. I thought AXA should reasonably compensate Miss A and Mr M for this and I thought £200 was in keeping with our 
published guidance for the level of upset caused. 
Mr M raised a number of concerns with AXA about its level of service and the delays in the 
claim. And AXA accepted that its level of service had been wanting. When a business makes 
mistakes, as AXA accepted it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, 
as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the errors had on the consumer. 
As far as I could see, AXA had taken steps to progress the claim-related rectification work. 
The last comment that I could see stated that it was waiting for a courtesy car to be made 
available so that it could book the car in for these repairs. But I couldnt see why, five months 
later, it hadnt done this.  
I thought in order to restore Miss As position AXA also needed, as Ive said above, to add 
the supplementary repairs. I required it to expedite this as Mr M had been waiting a year 
since the previous final decisions requirement for his car to be repaired. And I required it to 
pay Miss A £200 further compensation for this further unacceptable delay.
Mr M complained that it took AXA ten months to obtain an independent assessors report. 
He said it had accepted that this was too long. And I could see from its response to his 
complaint, that AXA acknowledged this. It also agreed that Mr Ms car had to go back to the 
garage for rectification work three times, that non-genuine parts were used, and he wasnt 
kept updated on the progress of the claim. I could understand that this caused Mr M 
frustration. AXA paid Miss A £200 compensation for this, and I thought that was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M complained that AXA hadnt dealt with the two unrelated repairs. And I thought AXA 
could have resolved this dispute by finding an alternative repairer or escalating the repairers 
refusal to undertake the supplementary repairs. It paid Miss A £175 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused, and I thought that was fair and reasonable. 
And AXA agreed that it had asked Mr M to provide estimates from his own repairer when he 
had already provided them months earlier. And it agreed that it had communicated poorly 
with him. It paid Miss A £100 compensation for the frustration caused and I thought that was 
fair and reasonable. 
So I was satisfied that AXA considered the impact these errors had on Miss A and Mr M, and 
I was satisfied that £475 compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable for the trouble 
and upset caused. This was because the amount paid was in keeping with our published 
guidance where there have been repeated errors over a period of months. 
But, as Ive said above, I also required AXA to pay Miss A £400 further compensation in total 
for the further trouble and upset caused by its level of service and further avoidable delays in 
repairing the car. 
Our Investigator had already explained to Mr M that I couldnt consider his concern that he 
was left stranded for three days when his car was at the garage, but he wasnt provided with 
a courtesy car. This was because this happened after AXA issued its final response to his 
complaint. And Mr M would need to complain again to AXA about this to give it a chance to 
respond. 
Subject to any further representations from Miss A and Mr M and AXA, my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
I intended to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Expedite the repairs to Mr Ms car that it has authorised, including all the supplementary 
repairs, at a garage of Mr Ms choice.
2. Pay Miss A £400 further compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused by its 
level of service and further avoidable delays in repairing the car. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA replied querying the total amount of compensation to be paid. I think this is clearly set 
out above and below. As Ive said above, AXA has already paid Miss A £475 for its service 
failings related to this complaint. But I think a further £400 compensation is warranted 
because of the trouble and upset caused by its further service failings and avoidable delays 
in the claim. 
Mr M replied that he accepted the decision, but that he was satisfied that all the necessary 
repairs had now been made. So I can see no reason to require AXA to carry out further 
repairs. 
But Mr M thought I should also make a finding on whether AXA had accused him of holding 
up the repairs. He said he was very upset by this. Mr M has explained that the reason why 
there was a delay was that the garage that carried out the further repairs didnt want to be 
held responsible for guaranteeing the work of the first garage. So it was waiting for AXA to 
agree this. 
This isnt evident in AXAs notes, so I think there has been a genuine misunderstanding 
about what was holding up the repairs. As Ive said above, I dont think Mr M was being 
obstructive. And I can understand that he feels upset that he was regarded as difficult. 
But I think the mistake was due to poor communication. Ive said above that I think it was 
reasonable for Mr M to object to being described as difficult when he was simply following 
AXAs instructions. And I think the £200 further compensation Ive awarded is sufficient for 
the trouble and upset this caused. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss A £400 further compensation in total for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service and further avoidable delays in 
repairing the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman