DRN-3196565
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is
charging their success fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs W said shed made an on-line enquiry with FTR about whether shed
been mis-sold PPI with any of her lenders. Mrs W said shed never authorised FTR to
pursue any claims for her. And hadnt signed any of their forms. When she was sent
documents to complete, shed returned them to FTR, annotated No Thanks.
In July 2020, Mrs W was told by one of her lenders Ill call L that shed been mis-sold PPI
on some of her loans. And an offer of compensation was made for each of them. Shortly
after Mrs W said FTR asked them to pay their success fees.
On asking for evidence that shed agreed to use their services FTR sent her the letter of
authority (LoA). Mrs W said the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs W had signed an LoA in August 2019 and theyd submitted this to L. They
said Mrs W hadnt cancelled her agreement within the 14-day cooling off period. So, as
shed successful claims that followed their submission of her LoA they said their fees were
justified.
Mrs W wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mrs W had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And that they
were acting fairly and reasonably in asking for their success fees.
Mrs W didnt agree, she reiterated the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. And that she hadnt
been provided with a cancellation form in a durable medium which invalidated any contract.
She also said FTR had waived their fee for another of her lenders Ill call B. And added an
award had been made to her husband when the LoA provided by FTR was only in her name.
Mrs W said this was evidence of FTR acting without authority. Mrs W asked for an
ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 that said:
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my
decision on what I think most likely happened.
FTR feel strongly that Mrs W agreed to use their services and that it was because of their
enquiry her claims with L were successful. I can also understand Mrs Ws frustration as she
doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf.
Its not in dispute that Mrs W made an on-line enquiry with FTR about a PPI claims. But she
says she didnt authorise FTR to act on her behalf. In making my decision I need to
determine whether it more likely than not that Mrs W had authorised FTR to act on her
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. I will
also consider whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mrs Ws lenders,
including L in August 2019, three days before the deadline for making such claims. The
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs W has given this
service.
Ive looked at FTRs web journey application process. FTR has shown the screens Mrs W
would have gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mrs W about her personal details and lenders.
On completing the application, FTR has said there is a need for a box to be ticked to show
the terms and conditions had been agreed, and its then a LoA would be generated,
populated with the information provided in the application. FTR said the LoA can only be
submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to add a date.
FTR has shown an audit trail for the application which shows the personal details provided.
And is date stamped for the completion and addition including the electronically added
signature. All of which are dated 26 August 2019. So, on balance I think Mrs W authorised
FTR to act on her behalf.
I will now consider whether Mrs W cancelled her agreement with FTR.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were available to see. FTRs terms and
conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
And give details of the various channels Mrs W could have used to cancel the agreement.
The terms and conditions also say:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the
cooling off period, however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a
claim our fee will be due. If You cancel Your Claim(s) after an offer of reasonable
Compensation is made to You, then FTR shall be entitled to issue the Fee(s) that would bepayable
I cant see FTR provided a cancellation form for Mrs W to complete, so could be said to be in
breach of the relevant regulations. But I think the terms are clear that the agreement can be
cancelled. So, Ive considered when the 14-day cooling off period would have started.
FTRs records show that they were notified by L that PPI had been found for Mrs Ws claim
with L in February 2020. And I can see that Mrs W was sent notification of this the same
month. The notification includes Mrs Ws FTR reference number and said  You HAVE paid
PPI and action is needed to receive your refund. So, from this point FTR would have been
providing their claims service. The same notification refers Mrs W to a link to complete a PPI
questionnaire.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC)
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So,
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the
information could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. I can see
from FTRs records that Mrs W returned the PPI questionnaire but without completing it. And
there is a note Please can you contact the customer with regards to the incomplete PPIQ's.
Thank You." I have scheduled a call for an agent to complete the questionnaires. But I cant
see any record of a call being made.
In March 2020, as an on-line PPI questionnaire hadnt been completed, FTR sent Mrs W a
paper copy by post. And later that same month Mrs W again returned the PPI questionnaire
without completing it. FTRs notes say a call will be made, but theres no record of this
happening.
FTRs terms and conditions clearly say the 14-day cooling off period starts from the date
you sign the Letter of Authority But at this point Mrs W would have considered she was only
agreeing to a free PPI check. So, I dont think the 14-day cooling off period for acceptance of
FTRs claims service would start until Mrs W was made aware that PPI had been identified. 
And FTRs records show this wouldnt have been before 24 February 2020 when FTR sent
notification to Mrs W You Have paid PPI..So I think Mrs W would have had up to 9 March
2020 to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period. But I cant see Mrs W
contacted FTR before 9 March 2020, as their records show Mrs W didnt return the
uncompleted PPI questionnaire until the end of March 2020.
But the notification sent to Mrs W also gave instructions To progress your claim for mis-sold
PPI, please complete the following.. . This included signing the PPI questionnaire. As
Mrs W didnt sign the PPI questionnaire, this would imply to her the PPI claim couldnt
progress.
The notification went on to say:
On receipt of your signed questionnaire, we will send a bespoke letter of complaint to the
lender. The lender then has 8 weeks to make their final decision.
As Mrs W didnt return the PPI questionnaire, completed or signed, FTR wouldnt have had
Mrs Ws authorisation to send a bespoke letter of complaint.
I can see from FTRs records that they didnt take any further action until 1 July 2020. FTRs
records show:Letter of complaint sent to the lender to support auto conversion. And reopened chase lead
in FLG.
But Mrs W hadnt given them authorisation to take this action as she hadnt returned a
signed PPI questionnaire. And I think the record shows that Mrs Ws claim had to be
reopened, at the time the decision was made by FTR to send the letter of complaint.
So, while Im satisfied Mrs W authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue her claim with
L. I think FTR had closed her claim as they couldnt progress the PPI claim to get a refund
as Mrs W hadnt followed the instructions, they told her she needed to do. And Mrs W had
reason to believe from FTRs correspondence that a claim - a letter of complaint wouldnt
have been submitted, so she believed shed effectively opted out of her agreement with
FTR.
FTRs terms and conditions say they wont charge a cancellation fee during or after the 14-
day cooling off period. But go on to say they will charge their fee if an offer of compensation
is made. I think they clarify this by saying the fee is due if cancelled after the compensation
is awarded.
FTR has said as Mrs W received an offer as a result of their submission of the LoA their fee
is justified. But from the evidence Ive seen Mrs Ws claim had been closed by FTR following
the return of the unsigned PPI questionnaire. And Mrs W received her offer of compensation
after this time. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for FTR to charge their fee.
Following my provisional decision, FTR provided further evidence in regard to the emails and 
telephone calls made to Mrs W. And clarification about what appeared to be the closure of 
her claim.
In being minded to uphold Mrs Ws complaint Id said I think FTR had closed her claim as 
they couldnt progress the PPI claim to get a refund as Mrs W hadnt followed the 
instructions, they told her she needed to do. 
FTR said when Mrs W instructed them to act on her behalf in August 2019 shed agreed to 
their terms and conditions. This included the 14-day cooling off period for cancellation 
without charge. FTR said Mrs W hadnt cancelled her agreement within the 14 days of 
signing the LoA. Neither had she cancelled the agreement within 14 days of being told FTR 
had found she had PPI. 
They said theyd emailed Mrs W several times between 26th February 2020 and the 9th 
March 2020. And after the uncompleted blank PPI Questionnaires (PPIQ) was received from 
Mrs W, 16th March 2020, theyd attempted to call her on the 31st March 2020 but this call 
went unanswered. They said a further 23 telephone calls were attempted between the 1st 
April 2020 and the 1st July 2020. 
FTR said although there wasnt a cancellation form it was made clear in their terms and 
conditions how the agreement with them could be cancelled. And the only annotated 
document they received from Mrs W that said No Thanks wasnt received until 7 August 
2020, which was outside of the 14-day cooling off period. This was also after Mrs W had 
received her redress from L.
FTR disagreed with my finding about them having closed Mrs W claim they said:
You have stated that from the evidence you have seen, the clients claim had been closed 
following the return of the unsigned PPIQ and the record shows that this was then reopened 
at the time the decision was made to send the Letter of Complaint (LOC). I am unable to agree with this observation as the clients claims were never cancelled; they remained open 
and we were attempting to contact the client regarding the PPIQ, as shown on the attached 
call log. The notes left on the account dated 01/07/2020 were left as a result of an employee 
working a report showing open claims which had been on a certain step of our process over 
a specified length of time. The chase lead in FLG which they refer to is a communication 
lead in the automated dialler which was closed by the system on 01/06/2020 due to 
numerous failed attempts to contact the client and this was reopened on 01/07/2020. 
Mrs W didnt ask for any comments to be considered.
In reviewing the additional evidence, I issued a second provisional decision in July 2021 that 
said:
Having now considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im persuaded to change my thinking and 
agree with our investigators outcome to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
FTR has provided further evidence of the work they did for Mrs W including call logs. Our 
investigator asked for all relevant information about Mrs Ws claim before starting her 
investigation so these could have been sent earlier for consideration as theyre relevant to 
the investigation.
Much of FTRs response relates to whether Mrs W authorised them to act for her and 
whether shed cancelled the agreement she had with them. I addressed these points in my 
provisional decision and I was satisfied that Mrs W had instructed FTR to act for her in 
making a PPI claim with L. I also accepted that the return of the uncompleted PPIQ was 
outside of the 14 days from when FTR had notified her that theyd found she did have PPI. 
But FTR has now shown that they hadnt closed Mrs Ws claim. Their records referred to 
their automated dialler option being closed as theyd been unable to contact Mrs W by this 
method despite calling her in excess of 20 times. This meant Mrs Ws claim was still active 
between her, FTR and L. 
As I explained previously in 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims 
management companies (CMC) amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the 
expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim 
based on a data subject request. And this is what happened here. FTR had submitted the 
LoA from August 2019 to L and theyd accepted this as Mrs Ws claim for mis-sold PPI. So, 
neither the LoC or PPI questionnaire was needed for L to consider Mrs Ws mis-sold PPI 
claim.
So Ive now looked to see whether FTR would have known Mrs W didnt want them to work 
for her. FTR has shown they sent several emails to Mrs W. She has said she didnt read the 
emails. But I cant hold FTR responsible for Mrs W not reading her emails as theyd been 
sent. But the letters FTR sent are also clear that there is an alternative to reading the emails 
and the steps Mrs W needed to take to progress the claim. Mrs W didnt complete the PPIQ 
or sign it. She did return the uncompleted PPIQ to FTR.
 FTRs terms and conditions say under Termination:
After the 'cooling off' period has expired you may terminate this agreement with FTR
verbally by telephone number 0333 212 1265, in writing to Fast Track Reclaim, Fast Track
House, Pearson Way, Thornaby Stockton-on-Tees TS17 6PT or in person. No cancellation 
fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the cooling off period,
however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a claim our fee will bedue. If You cancel Your Claim(s) after an offer of reasonable Compensation is made
Mrs W returned the uncompleted PPIQ outside of the 14-day cooling off period. And I 
havent seen any evidence that she contacted FTR to tell them she no longer wanted them 
to work for her, despite their numerous attempts to contact her. FTR has shown that they not 
only sent several emails but also tried to call Mrs W over 20 times without success. As FTR 
hadnt closed her claim I dont think it was enough by Mrs W simply to disengage with the 
process for FTR to treat this as her cancelling the agreement shed with them. 
Ive also considered that the agreement was made 26 August 2019, only three days before 
the deadline for making such claims. And Mrs W has said she didnt make a PPI claim direct 
with L. So FTRs submission of her claim was the reason it was successful.
The agreement Mrs W had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means FTR 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Ws claim was 
successful. 
I know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. But taking all of the above into account 
Im currently minded to not uphold her complaint. And I think FTR are justified in charging 
their success fee.
Responses to my provisional decision
FTR didnt ask for any further comments to be considered. Mrs W didnt agree with my 
provisional findings saying:
shed instigated the PPI claim with her lender L before FTRs involvement. And that 
FTR had confirmed to her that L didnt have a LoA from them;
shed only agreed to a free PPI check and reiterated she hadnt signed the LoA 
authorising FTR to pursue a PPI claim on her behalf;
she said FTR were in breach of Financial Conduct Authority guidelines in that the 
signature shouldnt had been applied electronically as a wet signature was required;
she hadnt completed any of the forms they sent to her so she hadnt given them any 
instructions to act on her behalf; and
FTR didnt provide a cancellation from which was in breach of distance selling 
regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mrs W. So, Ill explain why.
Mrs W hasnt disputed that she completed the online application for FTR to carry out a free 
PPI check for her a few days before the August deadline for making such claims. I know Mrs 
W said she didnt sign any forms, but as I outlined in my provisional decision before an 
online application can be submitted a signature needs to be added. And FTR has shown the 
audit data for the completion of the online application that is date stamped for the completion and addition including the electronically added signature. All of which are dated 26 August 
2019.
Mrs W says FTR has breached guidelines in that she hadnt provided a wet signature. She 
said shed returned all the forms sent to her by FTR, incomplete and unsigned. Ive 
considered the relevant guidelines which allow for a digital image of a handwritten signature 
to be inserted into an electronic copy of the agreement  the LoA. CMCOB 2.1.10R says that 
a consumer must have signed an agreement. A wet signature on a piece of paper and a 
signature made on screen by an individual using a stylus or their finger are means of 
signing an agreement. And I think would show consent has been given to the agreement.
I know Mrs W has disputed the signature on the LoA isnt hers and added its quite close to 
it. But its not our role to validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts and in the case 
of forgery it would be for a criminal court to consider. So as Mrs W said she completed the 
online application Ive no reason to doubt she submitted the agreement.
Mrs W reiterated that in completing the online application shed only agreed to a free PPI 
check and hadnt given any instruction to FTR to pursue a PPI claim on her behalf. But as I 
outlined in my provisional decision, I think FTR had made clear in their terms and conditions 
that:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
Their terms and conditions also say:
Claim(s) means Your Claim(s) and/or positive identification of PPI auto-converted to a
claim by the Company.
And by FTRs submitting Mrs Ws LoA to her lender, this had been accepted as a mis-sold 
PPI claim  auto converted. So, Im satisfied Mrs W authorised FTR to act on her behalf in 
the pursuance of a PPI claim.
Initially it was my thinking that FTR had closed Mrs Ws claim and that they didnt receive 
any further instructions from her to re-open the case. But on provision of further evidence 
from FTR this wasnt the case. So FTR were acting on the authorisation from the LoA signed 
26 August 2019, and as this had been auto-converted no further instructions were needed.
For the cancellation of an agreement FTR must have allowed Mrs W 14 days from the date 
she entered into the agreement. Mrs W argues that FTR didnt provide a cancellation form 
and so were in breach of relevant regulations. Ive considered whether the lack of a 
cancellation form had a material effect on what happened. As I outlined in my provisional 
decision, I think FTRs terms are clear that the agreement can be cancelled, and they 
provided several channels for this to be done. I cant see that Mrs W cancelled within the 14 
days allowed to her. And by Mrs W simply disengaging from the process by not accepting 
calls or communicating with FTR,  I dont think was enough for FTR to have known Mrs W 
wanted to cancel the agreement. And so they continued to provide their claims service.
Given that Mrs Ws complaint about mis-sold PPI was made so near to the deadline date 
and having listened to calls where Mrs W says she hadnt gone directly to her lender. And 
she says the redress she received from L came out of the blue. I dont think shed taken 
steps to claim directly with her lender. So, I think the success of her mis-sold PPI claim was 
as a result of the LoA submitted by FTR. And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for FTR 
to charge their success fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman