DRN-2299863
The complaint
Ms G complains about how much was taken out of her Citibank UK Limited account, for 
some overseas ATM withdrawals. She says that the withdrawals were in euros, and her 
account is in euros, but the amounts taken were much more than her withdrawals.
What happened
Ms G said she had used her Citibank card overseas. She told us that this was a euro 
account, and she was making withdrawals in euros. So she was horrified to find that she had 
been charged very considerably more than she had withdrawn. Ms G said that these ought 
to have been straightforward transactions, and the receipts she got didnt state she would be 
charged a different amount to the amount she withdrew. 
Citibank said Ms G had requested, when she took this money out of an ATM, that her 
withdrawals were converted into GBP. So the ATM operator converted the euros Ms G had 
requested into British Pounds (GBP), using its exchange rate.
But Ms Gs account with Citibank is a euro account. So when Citibank was asked by the 
ATM operator for an amount in GBP, it had to convert that money from the euros in Ms Gs 
account, into GBP. 
Citibank said it had set out in its terms how this would work. If Ms G chose to have her 
account debited in a particular currency when making a transaction, then any conversion 
from the cash taken out of the machine, to the currency shed chosen to have debit her 
account, would be done by the ATM operator, and would use its rates. The terms also 
explained that if the currency shed chosen to debit her account wasnt the same as the 
money in the account, Citibank would then convert her money to pay the ATM operator.
Citibank didnt think it had done anything wrong. It has suggested different ways of 
managing Ms Gs account in future.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms G had 
requested that her withdrawals were converted into GBP. When an ATM operator converts 
the cash that Ms G had requested into GBP, using its exchange rate, this would generally 
result in a less favourable exchange rate. But that isnt done by Citibank, so our investigator 
said she couldnt hold Citibank responsible for this.
Our investigator noted that that Citibank had set out how this works in its terms. And it had 
also said that it would then convert the money again, when it received a request for GBP 
from Ms Gs euro account. Our investigator said that Ms G had told us that the receipts and 
ATMs didnt tell her that she would be charged a different amount to what she withdrew, but 
our investigator couldnt hold Citibank responsible for this. 
Our investigator said Ms Gs might like to consider the different ways of managing her 
account in future, which Citibank had suggested.
Ms G didnt agree. She said shed lost £500, and that was a lot of money for her, but nothing 
to Citibank. She thought it should pay this as a matter of goodwill. Our investigator explained 
out service cant do that, and referred Ms Gs complaint to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ms G has sent us receipts from the ATM withdrawals she made. Those do show that she 
had asked for currency conversion. I know Ms G has said she didnt see this option when 
she took out the money. In my experience, it can sometimes be very difficult to spot. But I 
couldnt consider what these ATM operators did as part of Ms Gs complaint against 
Citibank.
Citibank received a request for GBP from Ms Gs euro account. It converted some of her 
money into GBP to pay that. With money converted from euros into GBP by the ATM 
operator (which can be done at a less favourable rate) then back into euros when it debited 
Ms Gs account, Ms G found the amounts that left her account were significantly more than 
she had withdrawn. But I dont think thats Citibanks fault, so I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. 
Ms G has said she feels Citibank ought to refund her for the additional charges she wasnt 
expecting. But it hasnt offered to do that. And our service can only tell Citibank to pay where 
we think thats required to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. I dont 
think Citibank has done anything wrong here, so I cant tell it to pay Ms G back. 
I know Ms G will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman