DRN-2977996
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance 
that he signed in December 2015. The car broke down three days later due to an issue with 
the parking brake. Mr M asked to reject the car but the pedal assembly was replaced and 
Mr M continued to use the car. He had other issues with the car and repairs were made 
under warranty to the hydraulic and power assisted brakes in October 2016, the cruise 
control and battery in July 2017 and the hand brake and clutch pedal switch in May 2018. 
Mr M had been told that a software update would be available which would deal with some 
of the issues with the car but that didnt happen. 
He complained to Renault Finance about the issues with the car in November 2019 but it 
didnt uphold his complaint and said that he had the option to terminate the agreement. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He said that he would like a 
refund of some of the money that hed paid under the agreement. He returned the car in 
January 2020 when the agreement ended.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply but he said that Mr M was able to make 
use of it for the full duration of his agreement, though it was often impaired use, and he 
thought that compensation of £200 fairly reflected that impaired use. He also thought that 
Renault Finance should compensate him £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Renault Finance accepted our investigators recommendations but Mr M has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, that:
the severity of the cars problems hasnt been fully understood as, when the faults 
occurred, the car was unroadworthy and couldnt be driven legally;
he had very limited use of the car for the first ten months whilst faults were 
discovered and then waiting for them to be fixed and he stopped using the car after 
April 2019 whilst he tried to deal with Renault Finance; and
he was told that a software update would be available so was very surprised when it 
was admitted that there wasnt a software update and it should be clear that without 
that solution the car was never going to work properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Renault Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was less than a year old, had been driven for about 
9,800 miles and had a price of £14,495;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
its clear that there was an issue with the car when it was supplied to Mr M because it 
broke down three days later  he asked to reject the car at that time but it was 
repaired and he continued to use the car;
there were other issues with the car and repairs were made under warranty to the 
hydraulic and power assisted brakes in October 2016, the cruise control and battery 
in July 2017 and the hand brake and clutch pedal switch in May 2018;
Mr M had been told that a software update would be available which would deal with 
some of the issues with the car but he was then advised that there would be no such 
update;
those issues will clearly have affected Mr Ms use and enjoyment of the car - hes 
described the impact that they had on him and I sympathise with him for the issues 
that hes experienced;
the car passed an MOT test in February 2020, soon after Mr M returned the car to 
Renault Finance, and its mileage was recorded as 35,072 at that time  so about 
25,000 miles more than the mileage when the car was supplied to him in December 
2015;
the hire purchase agreement included an annual mileage limit of 7,000 so, at the time 
of the agreement, it was expected that Mr M would drive a maximum of 28,000 miles 
in the car over the four year term of the agreement and his payments for the car were 
calculated on that basis;
Mr Ms use and enjoyment of the car have been impacted by the issues with it but I 
have to take account of the mileage that he was able to drive in the car and the 
annual mileage limit in the agreement - and having done that, I consider that our 
investigators recommendation that Renault Finance should pay him £200 for his loss 
of use and enjoyment of the car is fair and reasonable in these circumstances;
these events will also have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr M and I agree 
with our investigators recommendation that Renault Finance should pay him £100 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused; and
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Renault 
Finance to pay more compensation to Mr M than has been recommended by our 
investigator (and which has been accepted by Renault Finance) or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to pay £200 to Mr M to 
compensate him for the loss and enjoyment of the car. I also find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Renault Finance, to:
1. Pay £200 to Mr M to compensate him for the loss of use and enjoyment of the 
car.
2. Pay £100 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman