DRN-2392055
The complaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) approved him for a second 
credit card that was unaffordable.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When approving Mr D for the second card, Id expect to see Barclays carried out 
appropriate checks to make sure he could reasonably afford the repayments
Screen shot data provided by Barclays shows Mr D applied for a second card shortly 
after he took the first. So Id reasonably expect Barclays to verify Mr Ds income and 
expenditure  and I can see they did this. Barclays provided details of the credit 
check data from the second application which shows Mr Ds credit commitments and 
his income at the time  and the data doesnt show anything to suggest this was 
unaffordable
Mr D said his credit score was low at the time and has provided a copy of his credit 
report from a reference agency. While I can see the score on this report was low, Ive 
not seen anything in the checks that shouldve reasonably prompted Barclays to ask 
more questions or would have led them to believe Mr D was in any kind of financial 
difficulty
Mr D said he quickly used the limit on his first card and the types of transactions 
should have prompted Barclays to recognise he was in financial difficulty.  Ive looked 
at copies of the statements from both cards at the time they were taken out.  There 
are some of the transactions described by Mr D but a huge proportion of these are 
other types of day to day transactions so Im not persuaded this shouldve made 
Barclays aware of financial difficulty
Ive also considered the issues Mr D raised about changing dates for his repayment 
plan. As the statements had already been generated for October 2019, Barclays said 
they were unable to change this in time for the payments due in October 2019.  Mr D 
had been incorrectly told the change would take effect before Octobers payment  
and explained he couldnt afford to make the payments that month. I can see 
Barclays didnt apply any fees for missing payments, and the repayment plan 
remained in place. So I dont think Mr D was disadvantaged by this and I think this 
was fair
Mr D was also unhappy Barclays couldnt take the payments on a guaranteed day 
each month  and could only offer for the payments to be taken in a window around 
five days. I cant interfere with how Barclays runs their repayment dates, but its not 
unusual that businesses cant offer a specific date, so I cant say Barclays have acted 
unfairly here
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman