DRN-4230261
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax debited £2,500 from one of his
accounts when they shouldnt have.
Mr R has used a representative to help with his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly
refer to just Mr R himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In December 2022 Mr R pre-booked a
£2,500 cash withdrawal from his Halifax current account.
Mr R says that on 8 December 2022 he attended a branch and completed the withdrawal.
He says he was handed notes and given a receipt to evidence the £2,500 withdrawal.
Further to this Mr Rs letter of complaint says that he counted the money when he got home
and found that it was £2,500.
On 9 December 2022 there was a phone call between Halifax and Mr R. Mr R says he was
asked how much cash he had withdrawn, and he confirmed it was £2,500. After returning to
the UK from a holiday Mr R says he noticed that his Halifax savings account had £2,500 less
than he expected.
Halifax say theyd made an error and had actually handed over £5,000 when Mr R attended
the branch. So, on 9 December 2022 theyd debited that amount from Mr Rs savings
account to avoid his current account going overdrawn. Mr R complained, he was adamant
he had only received £2,500. Halifax said their only error was handing over too much money
and to make up for this they paid £40 compensation to Mr R.
The matter was referred to our service. Whilst one of our Investigators was looking into it,
Halifax made an offer to settle the complaint. They offered to refund the additional £2,500
along with 8% simple interest. Our Investigator shared this offer with Mr R who declined it as
he wanted further compensation.
Our Investigator then issued his opinion on the complaint. In summary he agreed Halifax
should refund the £2,500 plus 8% interest, but he thought that £500 compensation should
also be paid. Both Halifax and Mr R disagreed. Mr R thought the compensation was
insufficient and Halifax thought it was too much. As agreement couldnt be found, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im
issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
Our Investigator asked Halifax why theyd changed their stance and made the offer to pay
£2,500 plus interest  they confirmed that this was a gesture of goodwill and not an
admission that theyd only handed over £2,500 on the day in question. Mr Rs submissions
include that he believes he is due huge compensation from Halifax. He also says he wants
all the bank staff to be put to trial and that the impact of the situation on him is such that it
cannot be compensated in terms of money.
Firstly, our service can only investigate individual complaints and not crime. And so if Mr R
believes a crime has taken place, this is something he should take up with the police. And
before I can consider compensation, I must first establish whether there has been an error
by Halifax which has caused all the impact Mr R has described.
Both sides agree Mr R attended a branch and made a withdrawal on 8 December 2022
(despite the disagreement over the amount handed over). It is also agreed that there was a
phone call the following day between the branch and Mr R, although sadly there isnt a
recording of that call available.
I obviously wasnt present when the cash withdrawal was made. And so I cant say with
100% certainty whether Mr R was handed £2,500 as he says, or £5,000 as Halifax claim. So
in circumstances like this I have to make my findings on the balance of probability  that
being what I think is most likely to have happened, considering all the available evidence.
Certain evidence (such as CCTV) isnt available and so cant be considered. Mr R has made
much of this fact. But just because Halifax cant provide CCTV, this doesnt mean it would be
fair for me to find against them solely on that basis. And in my experience of other
complaints of this nature, CCTV is very rarely conclusive as it doesnt generally show exactly
how much was passed between a cashier and a customer.
Halifaxs contact notes of the call that took place on 9 December 2022 record that Mr R said
he couldnt check the amount as he was at work. It also indicates that Mr R was told that
Halifax intended to debit his account (which they did the same day).
When Mr R wrote to our service in January 2023 describing the events of 8 December 2022
he said: The complainant came home, counted the cash £2,500 and kept it safe He goes
on to describe his call with Halifax the following day and confirms that he told them hed only
received £2,500. Mr R also says that he only discovered the debit from his savings account
when checking after returning from his holiday.
Halifax have explained that branch phone calls arent always recorded  so the only
evidence of what was said during that call is the call note and Mr Rs testimony. Im more
persuaded by Halifaxs evidence. This is because it was recorded at the time and if Mr R
had confirmed hed only received £2,500 (as he claims) there doesnt seem to be a logical
explanation for why Halifax wouldnt have recorded that, rather than recording that he
couldnt check as he was at work. I also think its implausible that during the call Halifax
wouldnt have mentioned their intention to debit Mr Rs account to correct the situation.
Mr Rs testimony is that he counted the cash when he arrived home with it. So at the time of
the call he would have presumably known exactly how much hed received. I dont think its
likely he would have accidently counted £5,000 as £2,500 given the significant difference
between the amounts. I also dont think its likely the first Mr R knew of the debit was when
he returned from his holiday as he says. As on balance Im more persuaded by the call note
which suggests this would have been mentioned at the time.Mr Rs submissions to our service include that when making his withdrawal the cash was
counted in front of him and handed to him loose in an envelope. Halifax say that despite
Mr Rs withdrawal being pre-arranged, they hadnt prepared it. And to facilitate this money
was moved from the safe via a cash box to the till. Theyve explained that the money from
the safe had been delivered in a pre-prepared bundle of £5,000 made up of £50 notes. They
say this bundle was handed over in error and recorded as being £2,500. Again Im more
persuaded by the evidence from Halifax. Theyve evidenced that their policy isnt to count
sealed bundles taken from the safe, and Im aware this is common banking practice. So I
think its most likely the money was in a bundle, not loose as Mr R says and that it wasnt
counted in front of him.
The impact of all the above is that it causes me to question the reliability of Mr Rs testimony
as credible evidence. And Ive placed less weight on it for that reason. Im satisfied by the
evidence from Halifax that the branchs cash deposits were £2,500 short at the material time.
And taking all the evidence into consideration, I think its most likely that £5,000 in cash was
handed to Mr R rather than £2,500.
The terms of Mr Rs account with Halifax allow them to correct an error in circumstances like
this. And I think this happening from Mr Rs savings account to avoid putting his current
account overdrawn was reasonable. Given my findings above, Im intending to conclude that
Halifax made an error and handed over too much money. As such I think the £40
compensation that theyve already paid for the error is fair. And as, on balance, Im not
persuaded Mr R is at a financial loss as he claims, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which
I can direct Halifax that they need to do more to resolve this complaint. This includes
compensation for the service Mr R received throughout including when making his complaint
to Halifax.
Im obviously aware that Halifax offered £2,500 plus interest as a gesture of goodwill. It is a
matter for Halifax as to whether they still wish to offer this amount to Mr R.
Halifax responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr R responded with some 
comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his further submissions to our service, Mr R has repeatedly referred to our service as a 
court. For the avoidance of doubt, Id like to make clear that we are an informal dispute 
resolution service, separate and distinct from a court. And whilst Ill take account of the law 
(amongst other factors such as guidance, regulations and good industry practice) we dont 
automatically view a dispute in the same way that a court might. The outcome is based on 
what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr R says that he didnt have sufficient funds in his account at the time to withdraw £5,000. 
I accept that is the case, but the error here is not in how the withdrawal was entered into the 
system. Both sides agree Mr R requested £2,500 and that his account was initially debited 
with that amount. The error here is that, on balance, Halifax handed £5,000 to Mr R 
recording it as only £2,500. The subsequent further debit of his savings account was Halifax 
correcting the situation.Mr R has also suggested its implausible that a pre-arranged cash withdrawal packaged in 
an envelope with a payment slip would include the wrong amount of cash. But as Ive 
previously mentioned, Halifax accept theyd not prepared the booked withdrawal before Mr R 
attended the branch. And in either case, human error is still a possibility. 
Mr R has questioned my reliance on Halifaxs call note. He says this is something that could 
be fabricated, and he added that the caller from the bank ended the call with him when he 
said he hadnt withdrawn £5,000. He also believes it should be taken into account that 
Halifax cant provide a call recording or CCTV evidence. I can assure Mr R I have 
considered all these factors. But as I explained in my provisional decision, where evidence is 
incomplete or unavailable, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. I dont think Halifax being unable to provide certain bits of evidence, automatically 
means I should find against them. And, with respect to Mr R, it is for me to decide how much 
weight to place on a particular piece of evidence. And whilst I can acknowledge that Mr R 
sees it differently, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im more persuaded by the evidence 
from Halifax. 
Overall, having considered Mr Rs further comments, Im not persuaded to deviate from the 
outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman