DRN-3472981
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Zurich Insurance PLCs (Zurich) handling and settlement of a claim 
made under his commercial landlord property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M owns a property which he lets out to tenants. In March 2014, damp and water ingress 
was reported to Mr Ms letting agent by the tenants. The agent informed Mr M, as he lives 
abroad, and the tenant who was living at the property moved out. In March 2015 this was 
reported by Mr M to his insurer, Zurich. 
A complaint was previously considered by this service regarding a loss of rent claim made 
by Mr M under his policy. There was a dispute surrounding when the loss of rent period and 
claim should start from. One of my ombudsmen colleagues issued a final decision, directing 
Zurich to pay backdated loss of rent from an earlier point in the claim, with interest added.
Mr M brought further complaints to this service about issues with his claim. 
Zurich had previously issued a final response in October 2019 in relation to some issues 
Mr M had raised. These related to his flooring, rot and damp and delays to the contents 
claim (pre-October 2019). One of my ombudsmen colleagues said that complaint wasnt in 
our jurisdiction as Mr M had brought it to us outside the six-month time limit which he had to 
do so.
Zurich issued a new final response in April 2021 and addressed some of the new complaint 
points. But they also didnt comment on several complaint points which Mr M had raised. 
As Zurich had exceeded the eight weeks allowed under the complaint handling rules to 
respond to the full complaint raised, our investigator considered the complaint points not 
addressed by Zurich, along with those that had been responded to in the April 2021 final 
response.
Ultimately our investigator didnt ask Zurich to do anything further to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned, two previous complaints have already been brought to this service. 
The first related to a loss of rent claim, and an ombudsman issued a final decision on that 
case in October 2018.  
A second complaint about the flooring, rot and damp and claim delays pre-October 2019, 
was considered by an ombudsman in November 2021. They said it had been brought too 
late, and therefore decided it was outside our jurisdiction to investigate. 
As these have already been considered (separately) by this service, I wont be commenting 
on them here in my final decision.
In this final decision, Ill be considering the following complaint points which Zurich have 
either addressed in the April 2021 final response, or failed to do so within the eight weeks 
they had to do so:
Roof works settlement
Window repairs and replacement
Prelims, factoring, professional and management costs and fees
Loan interest incurred 
Ad-hoc additional costs
Contents claim delays (post October 2019) and rejection
Background to the claim
Firstly, Ill briefly recap the claim made, and how Mr Ms insurance policy with Zurich links to 
that. 
Mr Ms property insured with Zurich is a flat, which is in a block with other flats and 
commercial premises. They all proportionately share responsibility for some of the shared 
parts of the building, such as the roof.
A claim was made for subsidence to the building and a number of properties, including 
Mr Ms flat, were impacted by damage, either directly, or as part of their shared responsibility 
for the costs of the repairs. The blocks managing agent organised and led on the repairs, 
and a factoring agent was appointed to project manage matters.
Mr M has explained that each of the property owners has been responsible for contributing 
their proportion towards the subsidence (and other non-subsidence) repairs. So, Mr M made 
a claim under his own property landlord insurance policy with Zurich. 
Its Mr Ms individual policy that hes complaining about, and his insurer Zurich. He says 
Zurich should be responsible for the proportion of costs hes now claiming, which hed 
otherwise be responsible for under his shared responsibility.Roof works settlement
The building factor and managing agent determined the works required to the property and 
roof following the discovery of subsidence. And they asked each property owner jointly 
responsible, including Mr M, for their contribution towards these. Mr M is unhappy that Zurich 
hasnt paid the full cost of works required to the roof that he is proportionately responsible 
for. Hed like Zurich to pay the full amount.
Mr Ms policy covers a number of insured events, and this includes subsidence. But it also 
contains a number of exclusions, and this includes damage caused gradually, deterioration, 
wear and tear and maintenance.
Zurich has only paid 50% of the costs Mr M is responsible for towards the roof repairs. They 
say that only subsidence related works are covered under Mr Ms policy and claim, and 
some of the works and costs being claimed for are general maintenance works or unrelated 
to the subsidence issue or repairs.
A surveyor report was commissioned by the managing agent and property factor which 
outlined the issues and damage to the roof. Ive considered the report in order to decide 
whether this shows all the problems are subsidence related, as thats the insured event Mr M 
is claiming for. And consequently, whether Zurich should contribute the full amount of Mr Ms 
proportionate repair costs.
Having looked at the report, I dont think it supports Mr Ms view that all the works required 
and damage to the roof is solely subsidence related. Instead it highlights multiple issues with 
the roof, including slipped, cracked and broken slates. And it notes there were historic 
repairs, and a rudimentary bird deterrent system which had been installed and was allowing 
water ingress. And it commented the cement was in poor condition, with broken chimney 
pots and there was historic excessive debris and possible split lead valleys. And it also said 
all rainwater goods were in poor condition.
Whilst Zurich has said there is maintenance related work, which the report does appear to 
support, there is also reported damage too. But it doesnt appear to be, and theres no 
evidence in support of concluding, it is solely subsidence related. As I said, Mr Ms claim 
under his policy is for subsidence damage, and based on the report, I dont think this 
demonstrates all the damage (and consequently proportionate costs being claimed by Mr M) 
is subsidence related.
Zurich has made a 50% contribution towards the roof repairs. Theyve identified at least 
some of the repair works could be subsidence related. But they werent involved in 
assessing the damage or completing the relevant reports (as Mr Ms managing and factoring 
agent handled matters), so theyve needed to decide this based on the information provided. 
Having considered things, and in the absence of any expert evidence concluding all the 
damage is subsidence related (or due to another insured event under Mr Ms policy), I dont 
think Zurich has acted unreasonably by contributing 50% towards Mr Ms proportion of the 
overall repair costs. 
However, if Mr M believes the damage is due to another insured event (or is subsidence 
related), and has any evidence in support of that, he should submit that to Zurich for 
consideration. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly at this 
stage by providing a 50% contribution towards the roof repairs Mr M is responsible for.Window repairs and replacement 
Mr M believes his windows need replacing as he says they were damaged by the 
subsidence. Zurich say they are suffering maintenance issues, rather than subsidence 
damage. Zurich have noted there is decay and general signs of deterioration more widely. 
Both parties have opposing views on the windows. However, unlike the roof, an expert report 
hasnt been provided on the cause of damage. So, I need to decide, on balance, whats the 
most likely cause of damage to the windows and whether Zurich is responsible for the costs 
under Mr Ms subsidence claim.
Having considered all the information provided, I cant see any evidence of subsidence 
related damage. And in the absence of any expert opinion or report showing an insured peril 
(such as subsidence) under Mr Ms policy has caused damage to them, Im not able to 
conclude Zurich has acted unfairly by declining to pay for the window replacement. 
Mr M also provided a report from another homeowner early in the claim (some years prior to 
the roof report), which mentions damage to lintels, but not subsidence damage to the 
windows themselves. However, as with the roof, if Mr M believes the damage is subsidence 
related (or any other insured event under his policy), and has any evidence in support of 
that, he should submit it to Zurich for consideration. But based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Zurichs position is unreasonable here.
Prelims, factoring, professional and management costs and fees
Mr M has incurred costs during the claim for prelims, factoring, professional and 
management costs and fees. He wants all these costs reimbursed by Zurich.
Zurich has said they will pay a proportion of costs which relate to the subsidence works 
covered under Mr Ms policy only. But they say they wont cover costs not incurred solely 
due to the subsidence claim and insured repairs.
Mr M has a valid subsidence claim under his policy and thats why Zurich has paid a 
contribution for those insurance related repairs. Given Zurich has agreed to consider the 
costs associated with those insured works and repairs specifically, I dont think their position 
is unreasonable. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable here for me to direct Zurich to cover costs 
which werent incurred because of the claim and/or repairs covered under Mr Ms policy with 
Zurich.
But as I said, with the roof and windows, if Mr M believes another insured event has caused 
that damage, hed need to approach Zurich with evidence of this. And if Zurich then accept 
the remaining works as part of an insured event under Mr Ms policy, then hed need to 
present any costs associated with that to Zurich for consideration too. But at this stage Im 
not going to direct Zurich to pay for more than theyve already offered  those costs and fees 
associated with the subsidence claim and repairs.
Loan interest incurred
When the subsidence was discovered and the managing and factoring agent were appointed 
to manage things, they asked Mr M for his proportion of the repair costs upfront before they 
would start works. Mr M has said he needed to take out a loan in order to pay his proportion 
upfront. Hed like Zurich to cover the interest hes incurred in taking out the loan.However, the funds upfront was something required by Mr Ms managing and factoring 
agent, separate to his insurance agreement or claim with Zurich. It was the managing and 
factoring agent that required all the money upfront, rather than something which Zurich 
required Mr M to do. And Zurich werent handling the claim, or deciding on the repair works, 
instead the managing and factoring agent were in control of things and how the repairs 
would be carried out.
Mr Ms policy covers the subsidence related damage. And Zurich have paid towards this 
under the policy. And theyve agreed to cover the fees associated with the works as Ive 
outlined above. But the interest fees Mr M has incurred in taking out a loan in order to pay 
the funds upfront to the managing and factoring agent is separate to those costs, damage 
repairs, and his insurance policy and claim with Zurich. 
So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable here for me to direct Zurich to cover the interest, as this 
was only incurred due to way in which Mr M needed to fulfil his obligations with the 
managing and factoring agent, who had been appointed by the property owners to manage 
things.
Ad-hoc costs
Mr M wants Zurich to reimburse ad-hoc costs hes incurred. This includes council tax and 
utilities at the property. Mr M says hes not been able to rent the property out, so hes 
incurred these costs himself which wouldve otherwise been paid for by a tenant.
Ive looked at Mr Ms policy terms and they dont cover this type of costs which is the 
responsibility of the property owner, if a tenant isnt paying them. The terms cover either loss 
of rent, or alternative accommodation. And Mr M made a claim for loss of rent under his 
policy. He brought a complaint about the duration this should start from to this service and 
an ombudsman here issued a final decision in October 2018. This directed Zurich to 
backdate the loss of rent. It also noted Mr M was either approaching, or had already 
exhausted, the policy limit for loss of rent back in October 2018. So even if there was cover 
under loss of rent, which there isnt, my understanding is that this limit has been exhausted 
in any event.
I can direct Zurich to pay costs outside of the policy terms if it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint to do so. And here Id needed to be persuaded that it was 
solely due to Zurichs actions, or inactions, that led to Mr M incurring those costs.
Mr M says the property wasnt in a suitable condition to be let out. But Zurich argue that they 
carried out temporary repairs so Mr M could rent it out. So, Zurich say Mr M couldve done 
so, and consequently wouldnt have incurred those costs.
Mr M provided further information on this point which he says supports his position.
However, having considered all the information, Im not persuaded by this. Mr M has 
provided an email from a letting agent suggesting the property would let at a much lower rate 
than previously - based on the current property rental market, not the condition. They also 
said new legislation meant a tenant didnt need to commit to a fixed term and could vacate at 
short notice. Therefore, they said the property having the overall works complete (which was 
outside Zurichs control) would increase the possibility of a longer tenancy. So, they 
suggested Mr M could await overall repairs being completed to increase those chances.
But they didnt say it couldnt be let. And they didnt say the condition of it meant that it 
couldnt be let.Mr M has also said to this service that it wouldve cost him several thousand pounds in order 
to engage a rental agent, obtain landlord registration and other certificates required in order 
to rent out the property. And hes highlighted that even if he went ahead with this, and paid 
all those significant costs, which he chose not to, there would be no guarantee it wouldve 
been rented out due to the local property market at the time.
Having considered everything, Im unable to conclude the property wasnt let out solely due 
to the actions (or inactions) of Zurich, so Im not going to direct them to cover these costs 
outside the policy terms.
Contents claim delays (post October 2019) and rejection
Mr M is unhappy with the delays in the contents part of his claim. Delays up until October 
2019 were addressed in Zurichs final response issued at that time. And my ombudsman 
colleague decided that complaint was outside our jurisdiction. So, I cant consider that (or 
any delays before that) here.
But I can consider delays which have occurred after this time as this was addressed in 
Zurichs April 2021 final response  and they offered £250 compensation for this.
Ive considered the information provided by both parties. The claim has been ongoing for a 
number of years, and this mainly relates to the subsidence claim and repairs taking a 
significant amount of time (for circumstances outside Zurichs control). I agree that Mr M has 
been inconvenienced by the delays and poor communication in his contents claim. But I 
think the £250 compensation Zurich already offered for this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to direct them to increase this amount.
Mr M claimed for furniture and other items which he says were damaged by mould and 
damp in his property. He says this was as a result of the subsidence. He gave Zurich a list of 
items he was claiming for.
Zurich asked Mr M to provide evidence the items were in the property at the time of loss, and 
that the damage caused to them was related to the subsidence. But all the items were 
already disposed of, several years prior to making a claim for them. So, Mr Ms been unable 
to provide any proof or evidence of this.
Instead, Mr M has provided some historic information the items existed at some point, such 
as a letting agent inventory to show which items were in the property historically, and an 
invoice from when some items were purchased on Mr Ms behalf by the letting agent. 
However, the information Mr M has provided is from ten years or more ago. There are no 
photographs of any of the items, the condition of them at the time, or any evidence to 
support the items have been damaged by the insured loss, or an insured event, that would 
be covered under Mr Ms policy.
In the absence of sufficient proof of the contents items, or damage to them being caused by 
an insured event covered under Mr Ms policy, Im not going to direct Zurich to pay the 
amounts being asked for by Mr M.  
If Mr M is able to provide any further proof of the items, and/or damage to them being 
caused by an insured event, he should submit this to Zurich for consideration.Other points
Mr M is also unhappy that damp and rot in his property, alongside a claim for flooring, 
havent been considered as part of this complaint. However, these complaint points were 
deemed to be out of jurisdiction when the ombudsman reviewed things in November 2021, 
so they dont form part of this complaint or final decision.
My final decision
Zurich Insurance PLC has already made an offer to pay £250 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should pay the £250 compensation 
offered previously if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman