DRN-2923747
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K, a named driver on Mrs Ks application for a motor insurance policy 
application, complain that Hedgehog Limited is requesting further information to validate 
their details before it will consider indemnifying them. They want a back dated certificate of 
insurance, a pro-rata refund of premium, reimbursement of impound fees and compensation. 
What happened
Mr K searched for a policy on an online comparison site and selected Hedgehog. He 
completed Mrs Ks application online and made a payment and thought their policy was set 
up. But Mr K didnt receive any policy documents. Ten months later, Mr K was stopped by 
the police for driving whilst uninsured. 
Hedgehog explained that, although it had taken his payment, something had gone wrong 
with the application. It said it had tried to contact Mr K, without success. And it said it hadnt 
returned his premium due to an oversight. Hedgehog said it would consider providing 
indemnity if Mrs K and Mr K provided documents to validate the policy. These documents 
included Mrs Ks photocard driving licence so that it could validate her address and where 
the car was kept overnight. But Mr K wasnt willing to provide this.   
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
understandable that Mr K thought they were insured as he hadnt received a refund of 
premium. But she thought it was reasonable for Hedgehog to ask for the further information 
in order to confirm Mrs Ks address. 
Mr K replied that Mrs Ks licence had been lost and it was uneconomic to obtain a 
replacement as she was to move to a new house. He thought Hedgehog was trying to avoid 
liability. He thought Hedgehog hadnt made reasonable attempts to contact him to say the 
policy hadnt been taken out and to return the payment. Mr K asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K thought Hedgehog hadnt made reasonable attempts to contact them when the policy 
purchase failed. But I dont agree. I can see that Hedgehog tried to contact Mr K three sets 
of times by phone, text and email over the next month. It then sent him a letter asking him to 
contact it. The letter didnt provide any contact details. But I think Mr K was directed back to 
Hedgehogs website by its earlier contacts. So I dont think this is a reason for him not to 
contact it. 
I think it was for Mrs K and Mr K to take reasonable steps to ensure that their cover was in 
place. Hedgehog has shown screenshots of the application process where the confirmation 
page was blank and then the purchaser went back a page to the quote. It said this 
suggested that the applicant realised there had been a problem. 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt receive any confirmation that the policy had been bought or any policy 
documents. I cant see that they contacted Hedgehog to query this. However, the premium 
had been taken from Mr Ks account, so they thought cover was in place. Hedgehog agreed 
that it made an error in not refunding the premium. And I agree there is responsibility on both 
sides for the situation Mr K finds himself in. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Hedgehog accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Hedgehog said it would consider providing indemnity if Mrs K and Mr K provided requested 
documents to validate their application details. Mr K thinks that a binding contract was 
already in place. But I think its reasonable for Hedgehog to ensure that the details that the 
contract was based on were correct. And so I think its fair and reasonable for Hedgehog to 
request documents to verify these details. 
Mr K and Mrs K were living separately at this time. Hedgehog noticed that Mr Ks address on 
the seizure notice was different to that provided in the policy application. Mr K was driving 
the car at the time. But Mrs K was the policy holder and Mr K said she was at their old 
address. 
So Hedgehog wanted to check the address where the car was kept overnight in order to 
verify the policy details. So it asked for, amongst other things, a copy of both photocard 
driving licences to validate the addresses before it would consider a decision to provide 
confirmation cover was in place at the time Mr K was stopped by the police. 
Mr K thought this was excessive. But I disagree. I think this is in keeping with the policy 
terms and conditions which state that Hedgehog may require this. And I think Mrs K was 
required by the policy terms and conditions to tell Hedgehog about any change in the 
address where the car is kept overnight. 
Hedgehog said it would accept other evidence of Mrs Ks address if it was dealing with her 
directly. But the contact details provided in the application were for Mr K. And Mr K is a 
named driver on the policy. Hedgehog has explained that it required Mrs Ks photocard as it 
couldnt obtain her address from her DVLA code. So I think this was a reasonable request 
before Hedgehog then considered whether it would indemnify Mr K for driving whilst 
uninsured. 
Mr K provided a copy of his licence photocard, but he said they couldnt locate Mrs Ks. Mr K 
said shed applied for a new one, but there were delays at the DVLA. He later told us that 
they were intending to sell their shared home and so it was uneconomic for Mrs K to apply 
for a new licence until she was settled elsewhere. 
I can understand that. But many months have gone by. Mr K says that Mrs K has moved, but 
I cant see that a copy of Mrs Ks photocard licence has been provided to Hedgehog. And, as 
far as I can see, Mr K didnt provide his DVLA code to Hedgehog. So I think it wasnt 
unreasonable for Hedgehog to decide that it didnt have sufficient information to verify the 
policy application details. 
Without this, I think Hedgehog reasonably decided that it couldnt consider whether or not to 
indemnify Mr K or consider any of his other requests for redress. And so I cant say that 
Hedgehog has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
As far as I can see, Hedgehog is still willing to reach an amicable solution to this situation. I 
think its for Mr K and Mrs K to co-operate with its requests if they choose to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman