DRN-3536313
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refused his settlement offer 
to repay the outstanding balances of his credit card accounts, after they were defaulted.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided by both parties, I agree with the conclusions reached 
by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr S complained about Barclays decision to default his credit card accounts in 2019. 
And hes aware we cant investigate whether Barclays acted reasonably when it 
defaulted his accounts because his complaint was referred to us more than six 
months after Barclays issued their final response on the matter. However, I must 
make it clear that not looking into Barclays decision to issue defaults hasnt 
prevented me from reaching an outcome in this particular complaint. I dont agree 
with Mr S that we need to consider the issuing of the defaults, when deciding if 
Barclays acted unreasonably when it refused to accept his settlement offer. 
Ultimately, its not disputed that Mr S is obligated to repay outstanding balances for 
his credit card accounts. So, what Ive had to decide is whether Barclays should have 
accepted Mr S offer of 25% of his outstanding balances, as full and final settlement 
of his legitimate credit card debt.
A financial business isnt obligated to offer or accept reduced amounts as full and 
final settlement of legitimate debts theyre owed. Thats because the consumer had 
the benefit of the borrowing  and did so in the knowledge that it needed to be 
repaid. Its for individual businesses, like Barclays, to decide if/and what settlement 
offers can be accepted to repay a debt. Thats a commercial decision for them to 
make, and our Service doesnt have the power to interfere with that. Its for this very 
reason, I cant say Barclays treated Mr S unfairly by declining his 25% settlement 
offer he put forward  regardless of the reasons for him thinking thats a fair amount. 
So, I wont  and more importantly cant ask Barclays to change their position on this.
Barclays February 2021 final response explained theyre willing to discuss 
settlement offers with Mr S. But caveated that with the fact there isnt a guarantee 
any further offers will be acceptable to both them. However, I consider it was fair of 
them to let Mr S know theyre open to further discussions. I was also pleased to see 
they provided an email address he could use to contact them given he prefers to 
correspond using that method. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S hoped for. But for the reasons above, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman