DRN-2891512
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited as after she made a 
claim to it for damage to her car, and it returned her car to her, she felt items were missing 
and the car was in a poor condition.
What happened
Miss B contacted Advantage on 1 November 2020 to make a claim for damage to her cars 
engine which had been caused during an attempted theft of parts from the car. Advantage 
arranged to take the car for inspection. The car was collected on 4 November 2020, with an 
inspection being completed on 5 November. An initial report from the engineer said the car 
was a total loss, with the cost of damage in need of repair totalling more than the value of 
the car  the car being worth less than £900. But upon review Advantage told Miss B it may 
be rejecting the claim as the damage to the vehicle wasnt consistent with her report of the 
loss. Miss B asked for her car to be returned to her, which happened on 27 November 2020.
On 30 November 2020 Miss B called Advantage. She said some magazines were missing 
from the car, her V5 and MOT documents had been damaged, as had the boot liner, and the 
car was filthy, even with workers gloves having been left inside it.
Advantage said it would pay Miss B £25 to obtain a new V5, but that the MOT certificate 
didnt need replacing as it can be checked on line. It noted the car was dirty and that gloves 
shouldnt have been left in it, so it said it would pay £20 for Miss B to have the car cleaned. It 
said that for the distress and inconvenience of all this it would pay £20. But regarding the 
magazines and boot liner it said there was no evidence they were missing or damaged due 
to its inspection company.
Miss B wasnt happy. She said there were four leather floor mats missing as well  these 
had been in the car when it was taken for inspection, but the car had been returned with 
standard, low cost carpet mats. Advantage said Miss Bs word of the mats existence wasnt 
sufficient evidence that its inspection company had done anything wrong. Miss B complained 
to us and said she wanted Advantage to pay her a total of around £250 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. She felt its settlement was 
fair and reasonable. Miss B said she wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Advantage should have taken better care of Miss Bs car. But I havent seen anything 
that makes me think items were stolen from it or disposed of prematurely following the total 
loss decision. Nor have I seen anything to make me think the boot lining was damaged by 
Advantages contractors.
I appreciate it was upsetting for Miss B to get the car back in the condition it was returned to 
her. I also understand that shed have had some cost to replace her V5 certificate which the 
contractors had begun to amend before Advantage changed its view on the claim. But I think 
the total of £65 compensation Advantage has paid to make up for Miss Bs financial and 
non-financial loss is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to make it pay anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman