DRN-2782107
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs B are complaining about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a 
claim they made on their landlords insurance.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs B own and rent out a residential property. There was a fire in mid-November 
2020, and Mr P and Mrs B lodged a claim with AXA. The claim was accepted. Mr P and Mrs 
B were unhappy about the way AXA handled the claim and complained initially about how 
AXA communicated with them and the lack of progress. They also wanted to know how the 
contractor sent out by AXA to look at the work came up with the settlement figure they were 
offered. AXA responded to this and acknowledged it should have done better: it offered and 
paid £200 compensation to make up for this.
Mr P and Mrs B dont think this is satisfactory, and asked this service to review their 
complaint.
Our investigator said that, although he knew Mr P and Mrs B had raised several issues they 
were unhappy with when they approached us, they hadnt completed the complaints process 
with AXA on some of the points. So he limited his view to the topics included in AXAs final 
response letter of 12 January 2021, which was about communication, delays and 
inconvenience. He said he thought AXAs offer was fair.
Mr P and Mrs B dont agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think AXAs offer of £200 is fair. 
I must emphasise that this decision is only about the points referred to in AXAs letter of 
January 2021. I do understand that Mr P and Mrs B have other complaints, but if they 
havent raised these formally with AXA then it hasnt had a chance to respond. That means I 
cant consider them here, as its only fair to allow both parties to present their views before 
the complaint is reviewed by this service. 
Turning to the complaint itself, I can see that Mr P and Mrs B had said they were unhappy 
with the amount of the initial settlement they were first offered. In its response letter AXA 
said it would re-assess the offer, as it had received additional information on the work 
needed from Mr P and Mrs B. And I can see it was going to send a breakdown of the main 
costs in the contractors estimate so Mr P and Mrs B could see what hed included in the 
repairs. It can happen that an insurers initial offer isnt something a customer thinks will 
cover all the work, and Id expect AXA to review that if more information is provided. Thats 
what AXA has done here. 
AXA also acknowledged it hadnt dealt with the claim well. So I need to think about whether 
£200 makes up for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mr P and Mrs B know that this service only recommends compensation of a business has 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Having to make a claim is in itself a time 
consuming and upsetting thing to have to do. But that isnt something AXA is responsible for, 
as its a result of the misfortune suffered by Mr P and Mrs B when their property was 
accidentally damaged. And, as Mr P and Mrs B dont live at the property (their tenant does) 
they havent had their lives disrupted in the same way as, say, a homeowner would have. 
Thats because they will still have their own undamaged accommodation to live in.
I can see that AXA and its contractors didnt respond to Mr P and Mrs B in the way they 
wanted. And I understand that Mr P and Mrs B were frustrated by this and the lack of 
progress. But I cant see anything that suggests AXA was deliberately delaying this claim as 
Mr P suggests. And, taking into account that this complaint only covers a period of about two 
months I think the compensation is fair.
If Mr P and Mrs B complain about other issues and are unhappy with AXAs response, then 
they may be able to bring further issues to us for review.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and AXA Insurance UK Plc need do no 
more than it has.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman