DRN-4098136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following renewal of their homecare policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have been customers of British Gas for a number of years. They have a 
Homecare policy which provides central heating care, plumbing and drains cover, home 
electrical cover, and kitchen appliance cover. 
Mr and Mrs M received a renewal letter from British Gas but the premiums were high and so 
they contacted British Gas who agreed to reduce them. Mr and Mrs M wanted a letter 
confirming the agreed reduction in premium but it didnt arrive. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted British Gas to find out when they might receive the letter and were 
told it would be sent out. Mr and Mrs M say they made four phone calls and each time British 
Gas told them it would be sent.  
Mr and Mrs M made a complaint but the letter was still not received. In total they have made 
13 phone calls which have totalled almost five hours. 
When Mr and Mrs M complained a final response letter was sent to them which was 
password protected. And so they were unable to open it. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the service received from British Gas and so they 
complained. British Gas said Mr and Mrs M had registered for an online account and so all 
correspondence was sent to their email address. 
British Gas said on 29 September 2022 a copy of the policy was printed and sent to Mr and 
Mrs M by post. But this was after several attempts to post the letter previously. British Gas 
apologised for the service Mr and Mrs S received and cancelled the online account to ensure 
all future correspondence would be sent by post. 
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with the response from British Gas and so referred their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. She said British Gas 
attempted to send the renewal documents by post multiple times. She checked the postal 
address which was correct. It wasnt clear why those letters werent received by Mr and Mrs 
M but she couldnt see that British Gas had done anything wrong. And so the complaint 
wasnt upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said given theyd been customers of British Gas for so 
many years they would have expected some level of compensation for the service theyd 
received. Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that this situation was upsetting for Mr and Mrs M. They have been customers of 
British Gas for a number of years and their request for a confirmation letter seemed to be a 
relatively straightforward one. I dont underestimate how disappointing it would have been 
when, despite numerous chasers, the letter didnt arrive. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed submissions including specific points about the service they received. I want to 
assure them I have read everything. I hope they will understand if I dont address every 
comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to 
this complaint. 
British Gas has acknowledged there were failings in the service it provided to Mr and Mrs M. 
It amended the policy so it was no longer online and apologised that the confirmation letter 
wasnt received by Mr and Mrs M despite it being sent a number of times. Ive thought 
carefully about the extent of that inconvenience. Mr and Mrs M were aware of what the 
premiums were since they had already discussed and agreed them with British Gas. Mr and 
Mrs M contacted British Gas to try and resolve the matter. They were told they would get a 
call back, and that the letter would be posted to them. But it doesnt appear that was the 
case. And the call back and letter was never received. 
Im satisfied the letters were sent to Mr and Mrs M and they were correctly addressed. I cant 
hold British Gas responsible for Mr and Mrs M not receiving them through the post. 
Having considered the information I dont think British Gas has done anything wrong here. I 
dont doubt the impact of not receiving the confirmation letter, and not receiving the call back 
when it was promised. However I am of the view overall British Gas didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs M. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M are very frustrated with British Gas for saying it would do something 
and then not doing it, and I can understand why. Especially since they have been customers 
of British Gas for a long time. I appreciate the time it took Mr and Mrs M to try and sort the 
matter out. But my role here is to determine this complaint based on what, in my opinion, is 
fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman