DRN-1805781
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the compensation offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) as a result of the amount of time it took to deal with a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr M had a water leak from his bathroom that caused a range of damage to his home. He 
contacted RSA to make an insurance claim. During the claim, RSA told Mr M that the claim 
would take about three months to deal with. However, due to a number of delays and issues 
in progressing the claim, it took about nine months.
Mr M complained to RSA about the amount of time it took to resolve the claim and the level 
of disruption that it had caused to his, and his familys, life and home. RSA replied and 
accepted that it had taken far too long to deal with the claim and that it had provided poor 
service. It offered him a total of £1,075 compensation, some compensation RSA had 
previously offered in response to a complaint raised by Mr M earlier in the claim. It also paid 
him a £1,000 disturbance allowance. However, it said it wouldnt reimburse Mr M for taking 
unpaid leave.
Mr M complained to this service as he was unhappy about the amount of compensation that 
he had been offered. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that RSA had 
been fair and reasonable in how it dealt with the complaint and that the amount of 
compensation offered was appropriate in the circumstances.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr Ms claim took considerably longer to deal with than it should have 
and that this was due to poor customer service, a failure by RSA to manage expectations 
and repeated attempted repairs. I have looked at what happened during the claim, including 
the timeline of events, reasons for delays and Mr Ms account of what happened and how it 
impacted him. I agree that there were avoidable issues that significantly delayed the claim 
and increased the level of disruption. The question is whether RSA has done enough to 
respond to this.
As part of his complaint, Mr M has specifically asked to be reimbursed for taking unpaid 
leave. RSA has said that it wont pay for this because the policy didnt cover loss of earnings 
and that claims of this nature come with upheaval and do cause inconvenience. I agree 
that there is often a certain level of inconvenience in dealing with an insurance claim of this 
nature, and that can include having to take annual leave in order to deal with particular 
issues. Im aware that some of the reason Mr M took annual leave was because he didnt 
want to give keys to the contractors carrying out the work. Although I can understand that Mr 
M might have felt it was necessary for him to be there, there was no formal requirement for 
this. In any event, this service doesnt routinely make awards for taking annual leave and I 
dont see any reason to depart from that in this case. The normal approach of this service is 
to look at the overall level of distress and inconvenience caused and consider the 
appropriate amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Looking at the full circumstances of this case, I accept that Mr Ms life was disrupted over a 
prolonged period of time and that this was down to a range of issues with how RSA dealt 
with the claim. RSA has offered £1,075 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and it also paid him a £1,000 disturbance allowance. Thinking about the amount 
already offered, it can be very difficult to put a figure on things like this, but it is at the upper 
end of what I would have required RSA to pay. I say this bearing in mind our general 
approach to awarding compensation, that the amount offered is already quite a high amount 
and our awards in similar cases. On that basis, I think that RSA has already offered an 
appropriate amount in compensation for the way Mr Ms claim was handled. RSA has 
confirmed that it has already paid Mr M the compensation and the disturbance allowance.
It therefore follows that I dont think that RSA needs to do anything further or that it needs to 
pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman