DRN-2928741
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her fraud claim after she was 
the victim of a scam.  
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in February 2020, Miss L received email contact 
from a fraudster purporting to be from her mobile phone network provider. Believing her 
monthly phone payment had not been paid, Miss L provided her bank card number and 
security number to the fraudster, allowing them to make unauthorised transactions on her 
account.
Miss L realised what had happened when she received text messages from Barclays 
advising that payments on her card had been declined due to insufficient funds. Miss L 
contacted Barclays to make them aware that her card had been compromised. She says she 
received no fraud education during this call and that her cards werent frozen at this point.
Around half an hour later, Miss L received a call from a fraudster impersonating Barclays 
Bank from a spoofed Barclays telephone number. The fraudster said that payments had 
been attempted from Miss Ls account and attempts had been made to clear her ISA. She 
was asked if this was her, which she confirmed it wasnt. The fraudster told Miss L to send 
the funds held in her ISA to an individual she trusts and that she would be sent new account 
details shortly. Miss L sent her ISA funds to a trusted friend before receiving texts from the 
spoofed Barclays number again, with details of new accounts to send her money. Unknown 
to Miss L at the time, these accounts were actually controlled by the fraudster.
The next morning, when recalling the events to her sister, Miss L realised shed been the 
victim of a scam and contacted her bank by phone. However as she was worried she may 
still be talking to the scammers, Miss L took the day off of work to attend her branch and 
raised the fraud claim there.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customer who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Having considered Miss Ls 
claim under the Code, Barclays refunded Miss L the funds she sent to the fraudsters. It also 
offered £100 compensation for the additional stress caused to Miss L.
Miss L doesnt think the compensation offered by Barclays reflects the distress caused by 
Barclays. Shes explained that the money lost in the scam was from an inheritance following 
the death of her mother and following the scam, she required medication for anxiety, to aid 
sleep and that she also experienced suicidal thoughts. Miss L was due to go travelling 
around a week after the scam, but as she wasnt sure if she would get her money back  
and as she was suffering from anxiety following these events - she cancelled her trip. While 
the majority of travel funds were recoverable through her insurance, Miss L lost some 
payments made for her insurance excess and for train fares.
An investigator looked into Miss Ls complaint and thought Barclays should pay 8% simple 
interest on the payments Miss L made towards the fraud, from the date the payments were 
made until they were refunded. He also thought the compensation awarded of £100 wasnt 
enough to acknowledge the distress Miss L had experienced and recommended Barclays 
pay a further £500. Lastly, the investigator thought that had Barclays done more to protect 
Miss L, she wouldve still gone on her trip. He therefore recommended Barclays cover Miss 
Ls outstanding losses from her trip, totalling £133.
Barclays agreed to pay the additional 8% interest but didnt think it was liable to cover Miss 
Ls other losses. It said it provided Miss L with a full refund for her losses, as well as new 
bank cards, within the expected timescales and that it was Miss Ls choice to cancel her trip. 
As Barclays Bank disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays has accepted liability for the losses Miss L incurred to the fraudster, all that 
remains for me to decide is the impact this has had on Miss L  both financially and 
emotionally  to determine whether I think Barclays has done enough to put things right.
Its clear the scam has had a profound impact on Miss L  she took time off from work to 
raise the scam with Barclays, being too uncertain of who she was speaking to by phone to 
trust this method. Shes told us she was on medication following the events and has felt 
unsafe in her home, being left with a deep mistrust for people. 
While I dont doubt that a lot of these emotions stem from the fraudsters actions, I think 
Barclays couldve done more to reduce the impact this scam had on Miss L. When Miss L 
initially spoke to Barclays about her card details being compromised, I havent seen anything 
to suggest Barclays provided Miss L with advice on how she could protect herself going 
forwards, which could have prevented the subsequent scam from happening  thereby 
reducing the impact felt by Miss L. Considering the impact to Miss L in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I think an additional £500 compensation is a fair way to 
acknowledge the distress and anxiety caused to Miss L.
When considering Miss Ls losses incurred from her cancelled trip, Ive thought about 
whether this was a foreseeable loss to Barclays when it failed to provide sufficient scam 
education. I dont think it was  so while I dont doubt Miss L cancelled her trip due to the 
anxiety she was feeling and the uncertainty surrounding her money  this isnt something I 
can hold Barclays responsible for reimbursing and this is something Miss L has been made 
aware of.
So, in summary, I think Barclays Bank couldve done more to educate and protect Miss L 
when she advised them of her compromised card details and that this, in turn, resulted in 
additional distress being caused to Miss L when she subsequently fell victim to a scam.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Miss L lost her funds to the fraudster to the 
date of settlement, if it hasnt already done so
Pay a further £500 in compensation to Miss L for the distress caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman