DRN-3921449
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the compensation PSA Finance UK Limited offered after allowing her 
to reject a car supplied to her under a hire agreement.
What happened
On 31 May 2019, Mrs S was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with PSA. 
She paid an advance rental of £319.98 and the agreement was for 36 months, with monthly 
rental payments of £319.98.
Mrs S started having problems with the braking system and lane departure system. The 
supplying dealership did system updates in July 2019 and December 2019. But the 
problems with the car continued. In March 2020, because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) 
pandemic and resulting lockdowns, Mrs S was required to shield. So, the car was only used 
sporadically, and it wasnt until July 2021 that she was able to return it to the dealership.
The dealership did another system update in July 2021, and a new automotive radar and 
hydraulic braking system were fitted in November 2021. But this didnt fix the problem, and in 
February 2022 Mrs S was allowed to terminate the agreement and return the car. During the 
period May 2019 to February 2022 Mrs S was provided with a series of courtesy cars 
covering most of the time the car was with the dealership for investigation/repair. 
PSA refunded Mrs S a total of four monthly payments to reflect the inconvenience shed 
been caused. However, Mrs S wasnt happy with this, as she didnt think it reflected the 
amount of time she was allowed to drive an unroadworthy car, and the potential problems it 
mayve caused if shed had needed to make an insurance claim. She was also unhappy that 
some of the courtesy vehicles shed been provided werent suitable due to her medical 
conditions, and they werent of the same specification to the car she was paying for. So, she 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator initially said shed seen details of the courtesy cars Mrs S had been 
provided with. And, based on the period of time Mrs S had been without a courtesy car, and 
the complaint Mrs S made to the dealership about the unsuitability of a car shed been 
provided with; the investigator thought that the offer PSA had made was fair. And she didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. And she provided more information about the 
timescales involved and the courtesy cars shed been provided with. Based on Mrs Ss 
comments, the investigator revised her view. She said that Mrs S needed to return the car to 
the dealership on at least five occasions in the just under three years the agreement ran for. 
When the car was in Mrs Ss possession, she had problems with the alarm constantly going 
off and with warning lights constantly illuminated. And Mrs S was continually concerned for 
her safety when driving the car.
The investigator also explained why some of the courtesy cars Mrs S had been supplied with 
were unsuitable due to her medical conditions.
The investigator thought that PSA shouldve allowed the car to be rejected sooner, as the 
dealership werent able to repair it. And, given that the issues with the car had been present 
since May 2019, she thought it was unreasonable for PSA not to agree to reject the car until 
February 2022  just before the agreement was scheduled to end. 
As such, the investigator recommended that PSA pay Mrs S an additional £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
PSA didnt agree with the investigator. They said they werent responsible for how the 
dealership dealt with Mrs S, or for the courtesy cars that were provided to her. As such, they 
thought that the four payments theyd refunded were reasonable and they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Because PSA didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs S was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, PSA 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless PSA can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs S to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs S took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask PSA to put this right.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. There was a fault with the car that, despite a 
number of attempts by the dealership to fix this, remained unresolved. The car was with the 
dealership from July 2021 onwards, and Mrs S was provided with a series of courtesy cars. 
Despite escalating the issues with the car to the manufacturer, the car wasnt repaired. And, 
in February 2022, PSA agreed that Mrs S was able to terminate the agreement early.
Given this, my decision will focus on what I think PSA should do to put things right.Ive seen details of the courtesy cars Mrs S was provided with. She had a car in July and 
August 2021 that wasnt suitable for her needs as it was a manual, and she was only able to 
drive an automatic. Mrs S wasnt provided with any courtesy car for a period of time during 
October and November 2021, and the courtesy car she was provided in November and 
December 2021 was also unsuitable, as the driving position exacerbated her medical 
conditions.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mrs S had a period of just over three months in total where 
she was paying PSA for a car, but wasnt receiving the service she was paying for i.e. she 
wasnt kept mobile during this period. PSA have refunded Mrs S four monthly payments and, 
given the circumstances, Im satisfied this was reasonable for the period Mrs S wasnt kept 
mobile. And I wont be asking them to refund any further payments.
However, I also need to consider PSAs actions, and the impact this had on Mrs S. While 
PSA say that Mrs S didnt raise any issues with them until 15 November 2021, Ive seen 
evidence to show that she actually raised her complaint with them on 9 July 2021. And, 
between July and November 2021, Ive seen that she chased PSA on multiple occasions for 
an update on the progress of her complaint. 
Its also the case that the dealership agreed the car wasnt roadworthy in July 2021, after at 
least three separate attempts at repair. 
So, while PSA allowed Mrs S to terminate the agreement early, with nothing more to pay, 
from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car from when it was 
supplied to Mrs S. And the dealership had multiple attempts to resolve this issue, all 
unsuccessful. As such, under the CRA, Im satisfied that Mrs S shouldve been able to reject 
the car. And I think that PSA shouldve allowed her the right of rejection when she first 
brought the matter to their attention in July 2021. And, by not doing so, PSA unnecessarily 
allowed this situation to drag out longer than was reasonably necessary. 
Ive noted that PSA have raised the issue that theyre not required to keep Mrs S mobile if 
the car is in for repair, and that any concerns Mrs S had about the courtesy cars needed to 
be raised with the garage. But I dont think this is the issue here. Instead, by failing to allow 
Mrs S to reject the car sooner, PSA therefore subjected her to an extended period where 
she was either without a courtesy car or was supplied with an unsuitable courtesy car. And, 
given Mrs Ss medical needs, this put her to a lot of distress and inconvenience.
As such, Im satisfied that PSA should pay Mrs S compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. The investigator has recommended £500, which is in line with 
what I wouldve directed, had no recommendation been made. As such, I see no compelling 
reason why I shouldnt adopt this as part of my final decision.
Finally, while its clear that Mrs S had issues with how her complaint was dealt with, by both 
the dealership and PSA, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So, this isnt something 
Im able to consider. And I wont comment further on this point.
Putting things right
PSA should pay Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
supplying her with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality, and by failing to allow her to 
reject the car after the attempts to repair it had failed.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman