DRN-3878491
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros has handled 
a claim shes made under a buildings insurance policy following water damage to her flat. 
What happened
Ocaso is the underwriter of the policy i.e. it is the insurer. Part of the complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents it appointed to manage the claim and undertake the remedial work. As 
Ocaso has accepted it is accountable for the actions of this agents, any reference to Ocaso 
includes the actions of the agents.
The background to this complaint has been documented and commented on in detail by our 
Investigator. So, I have provided a brief summary of whats happened here.
Ms P is lessee of a flat insured under a block buildings insurance policy underwritten 
by Ocaso. The freeholder of the property and policyholder is her local council 
(Company C) and she is a potential beneficiary under the insurance policy.
In 2018, there was a leak from the above flat and there was damage to the hallway, 
living room and kitchen of Ms Ps flat. Ms P reported this to Company C. It sent 
contractors to fix the leak but initially they werent able to find it. After some time, 
Company C told Ms P to report the damage to Ocaso.
Ocaso accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to manage the claim 
and remedial work. There were disagreements about the extent of the drying out and 
remedial works attributable to the claim. 
Ms P had to move to alternative accommodation during part of the claim and she 
says she experienced a number of problems with this.
Unhappy with how Ocaso was handling things, time taken and the remedial work, Ms 
P made a number of complaints to Ocaso. 
Ocaso issued various final responses. It apologised for a number of things including, 
but not limited to delays in finding, and the suitability of, alternative accommodation; 
confusion over storage of appliances; and delays caused by availability of kitchen 
units, and it awarded Ms P a total of £500 in compensation for mistakes it made, split 
across two separate payments.
Ms P raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
and upheld the complaint. He said there were various incidences of poor service from 
Ocaso but it wasnt responsible for the initial delays with the claim which sat with 
Company C.
He explained Ocaso was only responsible for providing cover where the damage had 
been proved to be related to an insured peril. He went on to detail a number of items 
of damage he couldnt conclude were as a result of an insured peril including the 
walk-in shower; the bathroom taps, grab rails, rotting timber, and alleged losses 
related to a gym membership
There were other areas he said Ocaso should have accepted were covered. These 
were the kitchen leak from the boiler condensate pipe; the mismatching hallway paint 
and the missing boiler cover.
He said Ocasos offer to have the damp issues inspected by a damp expert and to 
undertake a final inspection to agree a list of outstanding works, was fair. And he 
directed Ocaso to pay Ms P an additional £200 in recognition of its failings. 
Ocaso accepted the Investigators findings; Ms P did not. And so, the complaint has 
come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has provided very detailed submissions listing numerous service failings, incidences of 
poor workmanship and disputed remedial works she says Ocaso are responsible for. 
Shes also referenced the actions of Company C and parties working on a previous claim, 
unrelated to the claim in question. I should be clear, I can only consider Ocasos actions and 
those of its agents throughout this claim. 
There are a number of ongoing issues still unresolved in the claim. Ocaso has recently 
agreed to undertake a further site visit in order to discuss these outstanding issues and 
agree a way forward for the remaining works. Our role doesnt extend to claim handling so I 
wont be commenting in detail on the issues which will be addressed at this meeting.  My 
decision will instead focus on the evidence thats currently available and that has been 
provided to this Service.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how a complaint should be settled 
quickly and with minimal formality  this is the statutory obligation this Service is under. This 
means I will focus my decision on what I consider to be the key issues at the heart of this 
complaint. 
Im not required to comment in detail on every individual aspect of the claim Ms P says has 
not been handled as she thinks it should but Ill consider Ocasos actions in the round. So I 
may not comment on everything the parties have said but I can reassure them Ive 
considered everything even where I dont comment on it specifically in reaching my decision. 
The parts of the claim Ocaso has now accepted
Ocaso accepted it hadnt handled some aspects of the claim well, including delays and 
alternative accommodation problems and it acknowledged this in its final responses. And 
having considered all the evidence, I agree with this. 
Following our Investigators findings, Ocaso has now accepted a number of aspects of 
damage it should have agreed to cover. Ive summarised these below but wont comment in 
detail as they are no longer in dispute.
Ocaso accepts its likely responsible for the condensate pipe being broken when the 
kitchen units were removed and this caused a subsequent leak. It will either pay the 
cost of the repairs or instruct one of its contractors to undertake the repairs.
It will ensure the hallway is decorated using matching paint.
It will arrange for the boiler to be physically covered as it was before the claim and 
associated works.
I agree this is fair in the circumstances and Id expect Ocaso to handle this promptly.
The parts of the claim still in disputeIve detailed my thoughts on these based on the evidence currently available to me and on 
Ocasos stated position. These aspects of the claim will be reviewed again by Ocaso in the 
forthcoming site visit so it may accept some of them are valid under the claim having 
undertaken a physical inspection of the site. Any mistakes that Ive identified here will factor 
into any compensation award that I make below.
The damp  there was some disagreement about the extent of the strip out works. 
Ocasos contractors felt Ms P wanted more stripping out than was required to 
address the claim-related damp but I acknowledge Ms P disagrees with this. 
Because of this disagreement, it seems the drying wasnt completed. From the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied its more likely than not Ocaso attempted to 
undertake the drying works but wasnt able to so they remained incomplete. But I 
note Ocaso has agreed to readdress this during its proposed visit together with a 
review of whether any remaining damp is claim related. It says it will ultimately issue 
a drying certificate for the work it undertakes. I think this is a fair way forward. Any 
issues relating to rising damp are unlikely to be covered under the policy and Ms P 
may need to contact Company C if this seems to be a feature.
Poor workmanship  from the photos Ms P has supplied, its clear to me some work 
has been completed to a poor standard. Ocaso will review and attend to this during 
the final site visit. I think this is a fair way forward.
Taps and the walk-in shower  from the photos Ive seen, these appear to have been 
in a used condition and I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me their 
condition can be attributed solely to the escape of water.
Hair line crack in bathroom hand basin; loss of water pressure; central heating not 
working; the mirror damage; washing machine door seal; worktop rust; seal to front 
door (fixed by Company C); extractor fan  I havent been given enough evidence to 
safely conclude these issues were as a result of claim-related damage, action by 
Ocasos contractors or whether they were other unrelated or pre-existing issues. 
Ocaso has confirmed it will assess these in its site visit and Im satisfied this is a fair 
way forward.
Rotting timber  this generally happens over a longer period of time and Im not 
persuaded theres enough evidence to attribute it to this escape of water. I do note 
that there has been a previous historic escape of water but this isnt something 
covered under this complaint. 
Lino in bathroom and kitchen  Ms P is unhappy with this as she says its not as thick 
as before. Ive not seen evidence which persuades me the lino is inappropriate or 
inadequate for its purpose.
Kitchen flooring  I know Ms P believes Ocaso will need to move the contents of the 
kitchen while undertaking remedial work due to the restricted space available. I think 
this issue is best addressed during Ocasos visit as it will be able to make an 
informed decision about the best way to handle this from its professional experience.
Other issues
Ms P says she hasnt been able to attend the gym and make use of her membership 
because of the claim. This isnt a cost that would be covered under this policy, and 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me Ocaso is responsible for this beyond 
its policy terms.
Ms P references what she describes as a micro assault and a number of instances 
of comments from Ocasos agents she wasnt happy with. Ocasos agents dispute these events. I acknowledge its evident there has been a falling out between parties, 
but Im not satisfied I can safely conclude Ocasos agents behaved inappropriately 
given the nature of the conflicting reports and absence of contemporaneous 
evidence. 
This Service isnt able to make findings on safeguarding or discrimination issues as 
these are better suited to other organisations or the courts. But Ive not seen enough 
to persuade me Ocaso has treated Ms P any differently than it would other 
policyholders.
The agreed final site visit and next steps
Given the extent of the disputed works, Ocaso has confirmed one of its regional 
managers will undertake a further site visit with its contractors to assess whats 
outstanding. This will include an inspection by a damp expert following Ms Ps 
request for damp proofing to be carried out as part of the claim works.
Ahead of this visit though, and following our involvement, it has already agreed to 
replace the grab rails; provide a drying certificate once the work is completed; ensure 
the bath panel is fitted correctly; ensure Ms P is paid for the stolen bathroom radiator; 
ensure kitchen worktops are aligned once the units are installed.
During the visit, it will ascertain whether the disputed works  including the damp 
issues - have been caused by an insured peril or by one of its contractors and should 
therefore be covered under the claim. Following this, it will produce a statement of 
works and share with Ms P. And it has confirmed it will arrange alternative 
accommodation if the works indicate this is required.
Im satisfied this is a fair way forward. I understand a date has been set for this visit 
already and I would expect Ocaso to produce the statement of works in a timely 
manner, explaining clearly which items of damage are covered under the claim and 
which are not, and why.
If Ms P is unhappy with the conclusions from this meeting, she can of course 
complain again. I note from the file, Ocaso has already confirmed it will agree to this 
Service becoming involved in any new complaint much more quickly than is normally 
allowed under the rules. Again, I think this is a fair approach in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Its clear Ms P has found dealing with this claim stressful  I dont doubt this as works of this 
nature will inevitably cause significant disruption and upheaval. And I think Ocasos failings 
have made this claim more difficult for her.
But its also clear to me, the relationship between Ms P and Ocasos agents was strained at 
times and there were disagreements about what was said on occasions. I note one 
contractor asked to be removed from the job as he was unhappy with his treatment while on 
site. And I have to consider the evidence and testimony provided by all parties.
Ocaso was also of the view that new and previously unmentioned aspects of damage were 
added throughout the claim, making reaching an agreed resolution more challenging. Having 
looked at the timeline of events, I think this is a fair comment although I do balance this 
against the possibility not all damage or losses wouldve been immediately identifiable. So, 
Ive had to keep this in mind when reaching my decision on this complaint.
Taking everything Ive said above into account, I think Ocaso could have handled things 
better than it did and I dont think the £500 it awarded Ms P fairly reflects the impact on her. 
Ive thought about this complaint very carefully and Ive concluded it should pay Ms P an 
additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience its caused. I say this as Im satisfied that £700 in total is reflective of the additional stress and disruption it has caused her beyond 
what would be expected in a claim of this nature. 
Ms P says she has never received the £500 award, so Ocaso will need to investigate this 
and pay it to her if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros 
y Reaseguros to:
Pay Ms P a total of £700, deducting from this figure anything its already paid her, to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
It should undertake the agreed site visit and provide a statement of works in line with 
what Ive said above and undertake the agreed works in a timely manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman