DRN-4049979
The complaint
Ms M complains Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her when she fell victim to a 
crypto investment scam and lost money. 
What happened
In February 2022, Ms M saw a post on her friends social media platform regarding a 
successful crypto investment. Ms M contacted her friend to ask for details of the investment 
and was put in contact with an individual Ill refer to as Ms D. Unbeknownst to Ms M her 
friends social media account had been hacked and she was in communication with a 
scammer. 
Ms M contacted Ms D regarding coaching in investing. Ms D assured Ms M that with her 
help she would achieve significant profits on her investments. Ms D advised Ms M to set up 
an account with a crypto currency platform, which Ill refer to as M. 
On 16 February 2022, Ms M attempted to make a payment of £1,088.84 to M using her debit 
card, but this was blocked by Lloyds. She subsequently tried to make the payment by faster 
payment this was also blocked. 
Ms M contacted Lloyds to understand why her transaction had been blocked. It explained 
that the transaction had flagged as requiring additional security checks before it could be 
released and that it needed to satisfy itself that Ms M was not falling victim to a scam. Ms M 
was unhappy with the intervention from Lloyds and thought its questions were intrusive and 
unnecessary, and she thought she should be able to spend her money as she wanted. 
Lloyds explained that before the payment could be released Ms M would need to attend a 
branch with her ID. Instead, Ms M chose to make payments to another crypto wallet account 
she already held with a crypto platform Ill refer to as C. Lloyds processed Ms Ms 
transactions and she made the following payments over the following weeks:   
Date Transaction type Amount
24 January 2022 Faster Payment to C £3,000
25 January 2022 Faster Payment to C £1,500
15 February 2022 Faster Payment to C £3,000
28 February 2022 Faster Payment to C £550
28 February 2022 Faster Payment to C £1,100
Total £9,150
From the crypto platform, Ms M transferred her funds on to what she understood was an 
investment trading platform. Although its likely this was when the funds moved into the 
control of the scammers.
Ms M explained that after a time the contact she was having with Ms D became rude and 
intimidating. She explained it was at this point she realised shed fallen victim to a scam and 
contacted Lloyds for help. 
Lloyds considered what had happened but explained it would not reimburse Ms M for the 
money shed lost. It was satisfied the payments had been properly authorised by Ms M. It 
also explained that, as the payments had gone into a genuine account in her name held with 
a legitimate crypto platform, the payments were not covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. 
Ms M was unhappy with Lloyds response and so referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, with the help of a professional representative (Ill refer to as A). She 
said Lloyds had failed to properly warn her about the risk of fraud and scams. She 
complained that when Lloyds blocked the initial debit card payments, rather than advising 
her about crypto scams, it had interrogated her about her investments and treated her like a 
fraudster, which had alienated her and caused her to make payments via C. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded Ms Ms transactions were 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious that Lloyds should have intervened before processing the 
payments. As such, he did not think Ms Ms loss could reasonably have been prevented. 
A disagreed on Ms Ms behalf, and asked for this complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. In summary he said: 
Ms M could not have known her friends account had been hacked and so she had a 
genuine belief the investment was legitimate. 
The scammer had built Ms Ms trust throughout their interactions, which led to her 
acting out of character. 
Lloyds had recognised Ms Ms earlier attempted payments to M as being suspicious, 
so it ought to have blocked her subsequent payments to C. 
Lloyds ought to have invoked the banking protocol when it recognised Ms M may 
have been falling victim to a scam. Had it done so the scam could have been 
avoided. Ms M transferred £9,150 to crypto platforms in the space of 26 days, which 
was abnormal activity for her account.  
The case has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear Ms M was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can appreciate why she wants to do all she can to 
recover the money she lost. But I can only direct Lloyds to refund Ms Ms losses if it can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
I should start by saying I have no reason to doubt what Ms M has told us about how she 
came to learn about the investment opportunity, which unfortunately turned out to be a 
scam. We see that scams are often perpetrated through the manipulation of social media 
accounts, and so Ms Ms account is entirely plausible based on what we know about how 
scams like this take place. The issue in dispute is rather whether Lloyds, as Ms Ms bank, should have stepped in and prevented Ms Ms loss either by providing her with clear and 
effective warnings, or by blocking transactions it knew to be the result of a scam. 
It is evident that Ms M authorised each of the scam payments from her Lloyds account. So, 
although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Ms M is presumed liable for 
her loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, Lloyds obligation is to follow the instructions 
Ms M provides.
I should clarify that in this case, as Lloyds has said, the CRM code doesnt apply. This is a 
voluntary code which requires signatories, such as Lloyds, to reimburse customers who are 
victims of scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code does not 
apply in these circumstances, as Ms Ms payments were made to a crypto exchange 
platform where the money was held in a wallet account held in her own name.
While the CRM code doesnt apply, there are other relevant obligations that could apply. In 
accordance with the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers, as far as is reasonably 
possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But a bank would only need to intervene and ask 
more questions about the payment if an instruction was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account.
Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
So, the starting point for me is to consider whether any of Ms Ms payment instruction were 
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, taking account of her usual usage.
Ive reviewed Ms Ms account statements from January 2021 to February 2022 when the 
scam occurred. While the scam payments were not completely in-keeping with her day-to-
day spending, I cant reasonably conclude they were sufficiently unusual or suspicious in 
appearance that Lloyds ought to have intervened. I note that Ms M had previously 
transferred £3,000 to another account in her name, so it was not new for her to move money 
from her account in the sums that were involved in the scam. Its also not unusual for an 
account holder to occasionally make payments that are higher than their previous spending. 
I appreciate that Ms M made five payments to C, but these were over the space of a month 
and there was no obvious pattern to the payments that would indicate she was falling victim 
to a scam. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to process her 
payment instructions without first contacting her. 
But even if I were to conclude that Lloyds should have intervened before processing Ms Ms 
payment instruction, Im not persuaded its intervention could have prevented her loss. 
Ive carefully considered the interaction Ms M had with Lloyds when she attempted her 
earlier payment to M. During this call Ms M was adamant she wanted to make the payment 
and was aware of the risk of scams, including crypto scames. Ms M also indicated that if 
Lloyds were to block her payments, she would move her money to another bank in order to 
complete the transaction. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms M would have reacted any 
differently had Lloyds intervened in any of her later payments, so I think its most likely she 
would still have decided to proceed with the payments despite any warnings Lloyds 
provided. Im also not persuaded that Lloyds ought to have refused Ms Ms payment instruction. While 
Lloyds would have known Ms M was attempting to make payments to a crypto platform for 
investment purposes, I think it is unlikely she would have revealed any other facts that could 
have uncovered she was falling victim to a scam. When Lloyds spoke to Ms M about her 
attempted payments to M, she denied that she was being advised by anyone on the 
investments. She also explained shed been investing for a few weeks and was aware of, 
and willing to accept the risks of investing in crypto. Given the circumstances, I dont think 
Lloyds ought to have known that Ms M was falling victim to a scam and blocked her 
payments.  
Overall, I can find no reason why Lloyds ought to have intervened before processing Ms Ms 
payment instruction. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should have 
prevented her loss.
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Lloyds should have done anything to 
recover Ms Ms losses, but I dont think it should have. 
Ms Ms payments were made to a wallet account held in her name. Any transfer onwards 
from that wallet would have been untraceable and irrecoverable, and any crypto remaining in 
the account would have been available to Ms M. As such, I dont think Lloyds could or 
should have attempted to recover Ms Ms lost funds.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms M being the victim of what was 
clearly a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Lloyds to refund her loss if I 
thought it was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything 
considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Lloyds liable in these circumstances. It 
follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman