DRN-2944101
The complaint
Mr G complains about Rational Foreign Exchange Limited (Xendpay) for rejecting a 
payment he made, and then for delaying in returning his payment to him. He wants to know 
why the payment was rejected. 
What happened
Mr G is the executor of an estate. As part of his role, he needed to transfer money to a 
beneficiary overseas. 
He set up an account with an agent of Rational Foreign Exchange Limited, Xendpay, on 20 
January 2021. He immediately sent a test payment of £100 to the recipient, who was based 
in Europe. 
He received confirmation that his payment had cleared his account, and his balance showed 
that £103.50 had been deducted. 
A few days later, on 25 January, Mr G received an email from Xendpay, telling him that the 
security checks had not met Xendpays criteria and that Xendpay would not be able to 
provide him with further services. 
Mr G complained. He queried why he had not met the security checks, and wanted to know 
where his payment was, at it had not been returned to him. 
Mr G chased the payment a number of times, before Xendpay responded to his complaint on 
8 February 2021. It said that it was processing the return of his funds which would arrive 
within the next 3-5 days. Xendpay was unable to advise of the reason why Mr Gs payment 
had failed the security check. 
Mr G received his funds back on 10 February 2021.
Xendpay offered £50 compensation for the delay to the refund and Mr G accepted this. 
He remained unhappy that Xendpay had not explained the problem with the transaction fully, 
and he contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that Xendpay was not obliged to explain its security procedures as it could compromise 
those procedures to give more detail. The investigator considered that the compensation 
offered was in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances and did not ask 
Xendpay to do anything more. 
Mr G did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, may I offer my condolences to Mr G in the loss of his friend. I appreciate that Mr G 
was trying to carry out the wishes of his friend and this incident made that more difficult. 
I understand Mr Gs concerns in respect of this complaint. He has explained that he wants to 
know why he has been identified as a security risk, in case he encounters this situation 
elsewhere. He has indicated that he thinks he should be entitled to have shared with him the 
information held about him, under data protection legislation. 
I should make clear that this service is not best placed to deal with issues of information 
access. Mr G can make a data subject access request directly to the business and, or, 
contact the Office of the Information Commissioner if he wishes to take matters further. 
Our role is to look at whether a business has treated an individual fairly in applying its 
processes and policies, and where it has not, we can direct that the business takes steps to 
remedy this unfairness. 
In this instance Xendpay explained that it was obliged to undertake checks on both clients 
and payments before remitting payments. It explained that the checks in relation to this 
transaction did not meet its criteria. 
Xendpay has demonstrated that it applied its checks evenly and did not treat Mr G unfairly in 
the decision to decline the transaction, so I agree with the investigators view that the 
business did not act wrongly in this regard. I appreciate that Mr G wants to know the 
specifics of this criteria but, as explained, it is not possible to share the details of a security 
check without potentially compromising those checks.
I agree, however, that Mr G experienced an unacceptable delay in the return of his funds as 
this took more than 2 weeks. This is not disputed by the business and it has offered 
compensation to reflect this.  
The level of compensation is in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances 
and is, in my view, reasonable. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and do not ask Rational Foreign 
Exchange Limited to do anything further. I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr G 
but I hope it clearly explains my reasons.
My final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and do not ask Rational Foreign 
Exchange Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman