DRN-2948585
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that a van supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 19 January 2020, Ms C was supplied with a used van through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. She paid a deposit of £2,260, and the agreement was for 
£11,300; with 60 monthly repayments of £262.13. Ms C didnt pick up the van until 1 
February 2020.
Ms C said shed been in touch with Close Brothers on a number of occasions between 19 
January and 1 February 2020  she wanted to withdraw from the agreement because the 
dealer was delaying replacing the brake pads and this was affecting her business. But she 
says that Close Brothers said the van wasnt faulty, so she needed to collect it.
Ms C returned the van to the dealership on 4 February 2020 (because a warning light had 
appeared on the dashboard), and on 26 February 2020 (because there was a noise coming 
from the brakes). Ms C contacted the dealership again on 4 May 2020, to complain about 
warning lights continuing to appear, and a continuing noise from the brakes. 
On 11 May 2020, Ms C took the van to a local garage for repair. They replaced the brake 
pads and fuel injectors; and they updated the vans software. These repairs were paid for by 
the supplying dealership.
But Ms C continued to have problems with the van and, on 20 May 2020 Ms C complained 
to Close Brothers. Close Brothers arranged for the van to be inspected by the manufacturer. 
This inspection said that the engine oil had been overfilled, and the brakes needed greasing. 
It concluded that the van wasnt safe to drive. The van was repaired by the manufacturer.
On 27 July 2020 Ms C complained to Close Brothers that the van was still making squeaking 
noises, and that the start/stop function wasnt working. Close Brothers contacted the 
manufacturers, who confirmed that the van needed new brake pads and a new battery. 
These repairs were completed on 5 August 2020.
Ms C wasnt happy that the van had been in and out of the garage since shed been supplied 
with it. She complained to Close Brothers again on 26 August 2020, because the brakes 
were still making a noise. Close Brothers refunded Ms C three monthly payments and 
agreed to pay for any more repairs needed to the brakes. Ms C was unhappy with this 
response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Ms C had had ongoing issues with both warning lights and the 
brakes from when she picked up the van. And the brakes were investigated on five separate 
occasions  three of which resulted in replacement brake pads being fitted. Although the 
investigator said that a reasonable person might expect a used van to have worn brake 
pads, she didnt think it was reasonable to expect the issue would remain after the brake 
pads had been replaced a number of times.
Because of this, the investigator thought there was an underlying issue with the brakes. And, 
she thought this was most likely to have been present or developing when the van was 
supplied to Ms C. And she also thought that the warning lights indicated another underlying 
fault that had never been fully addressed. She also said these this made the van of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator said the attempts to repair the van had failed, and the issues were still 
present. So, she thought it was reasonable that Ms C be allowed to reject the van. And she 
thought that Close Brothers shouldve allowed this after the unsuccessful repair by the 
manufacturer. 
So she said that, in addition to the repayments theyd already refunded; Close Brothers 
should end the agreement, refund the deposit and 10% of all other payments plus interest 
(to account for Ms C impaired usage of the van), refund any repair costs Ms C had incurred, 
remove any adverse entries from her credit file, and pay her an additional £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the van had passed an MOT 
in January 2021, and Ms C had continued to use it. So, they thought this showed that the 
van was now fit for purpose and its unreasonable to allow rejection at this point. And theyve 
asked for ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms C was supplied with a van under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Supply of Goods Act 1979 (SGA) says, amongst other things, that the van shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the van must last a reasonable amount of time.
So, if I thought the van was faulty when Ms C took possession of it, and this made the van 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
Im aware that Close Brothers say the relevant legislation is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA). But, because Ms C purchased a commercial vehicle for business purposes, its my 
understanding that the CRA doesnt apply. But, even if it did, it implies the same terms 
regarding the satisfactory quality of goods, and the single chance at repair, as the SGA. So 
Close Brothers obligations remain the same.Close Brothers system notes show that Ms C first asked to reject the van on 29 January 
2020, 10 days after the agreement started, because of the delay in the dealership replacing 
the brake pads, and because she still hadnt taken possession of the van. And they show 
that Ms C had also asked about withdrawing from the agreement on 30 January 2020. The 
case notes from 31 January 2020 say that Ms C wants to reject the car.
The system notes also confirm the timeline referred to above, and that Close Brothers 
arranged for the van to be inspected by the manufacturer. Ive seen a copy of the inspection 
carried out by the manufacturer on 20 July 2020. This confirms there was too much oil in the 
engine, which could cause a catastrophic failure; and that the brake pads needed stripping 
and greasing. These repairs were carried out. 
But, just ine week later, Ms C complained about further issues with the van. And Ive seen an 
email from the manufacturer to Close Brothers, dated 27 July 2020, which says I have just 
had the customer back in for concerns relating to the stop start and the brakes squeaking 
again. Looks like it could do with front pads after stripping and cleaning then the concern is 
still present [and a] new OEM battery is recommended. These repairs were also carried out.
It's clear to me that there have been problems with the brakes on the van since before it was 
collected by Ms C. Multiple attempts at repairing these have been attempted, and Ms C is 
still complaining about the noise when she uses the brakes. Close Brothers have said that, 
because Ms C is still able to use the van, and because its passed an MOT test, then it must 
be fit for purpose. But an MOT test checks for the performance and wear of the brakes, as 
well as checking the system components for corrosion or damage. It isnt designed to check 
for excessive or unusual noise. So, I dont think that passing an MOT test shows that the 
repairs were successful, or that the van is now fit for purpose.
As brakes are an important safety feature of the van, Im satisfied that the issues Ms C has 
experienced from when the agreement started show the van wasnt of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And, because multiple repair attempts have failed, Im also satisfied that Ms 
C should now be allowed to reject the van.
Putting things right
When looking at whats a fair and reasonable remedy, Im looking to put Ms C back in the 
position she wouldve been in if Close Brothers had allowed her to reject the car after the 
failed repair on 20 July 2020.
I wouldve expected Close Brothers to refund the deposit she paid. But, as Ms C had use of 
the van, I would also expect her to pay for that usage. However, that usage was impaired by 
the presence of noisy brakes. Given this, Im in agreement with the investigator that Close 
Brothers should refund 10% of the payments Ms C paid. This is in addition to the three 
payments theyve already refunded to compensate Ms C for the time she was without use of 
the van in early 2020.
I also appreciate that Ms C suffered some frustration and inconvenience because of what 
had happened, and she wouldve been concerned that the brakes may fail at any time 
because of the ongoing issues. Because of this, Im also in agreement with the investigator 
that Close Brothers should pay Ms C compensation for this.
So, Close Brothers should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
arrange to collect the van, at no cost to Ms C;
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Ms Cs credit file;refund the £2,260 deposit Ms C paid;
refund 10% of all the payments Ms C has paid (excluding the three payments already 
refunded);
upon receipt of evidence, refund Ms C any repair costs associated with the brakes 
that shes paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Ms C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Ms C an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Ms Cs complaint about Close Brothers Limited trading 
as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman