DRN-3748838
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was given poor advice by Sterling Wealth Ltd to transfer pension 
funds into a portfolio which was unsuitable and as a result has suffered a loss.
What happened
In 2013 Mr As then independent financial adviser (IFA) assessed his attitude to investment 
risk at level 7 (medium to high). This was reviewed in May 2014, at which time he placed 
himself as a moderate risk taker.
In December 2014, Mr A approached his adviser for recommendations in relation to a 
£40,000 sum he had received from some investments that had matured. He said his thinking 
was to invest £25,000 at medium risk, where the capital would be protected, and £15,000 at 
higher risk.
In April 2015, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the IFA and Sterling 
Wealth. They agreed that all of the IFAs clients would be transferred to Sterling Wealth by 
way of novation, and Sterling Wealth would take ownership of the clients. Under the terms of 
the agreement the previous adviser would work as a consultant for Sterling Wealth until both 
parties felt that management of the clients could be handed over.
In May 2015, the previous IFA wrote to Mr A advising that, following a review of the 
investment platform market, he was recommending that Mr A transfer his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and pension holdings to a new platform, saying access to a Discretionary 
Management Service, accessing some particular investments, was the main reason for 
transferring.
A recommendation was made that Mr A invest 30% in an alternative portfolio, with the 
balance of 70% invested into one of the managed portfolios (the latter being in line with how 
he was currently investing).
Under the heading: What service can I expect going forward? the letter said: You will 
receive quarterly reviews with recommendations to rebalance and to possibly switch some of 
the funds.
The transfer authority and discharge forms were sent in June 2015. 
The IFA wrote to Mr A advising him that it had decided to merge its clients with those of 
Sterling Wealth.
Mr As pension funds were transferred to the new platform in July 2015. In August 2015 the 
provider cancelled the previous IFAs agency, and recorded Sterling Wealth as Mr As 
adviser.
On 28 August 2015, the provider wrote to Sterling Wealth confirming that switch
instructions to the new portfolio (P6 portfolio) had been executed with an application date 
of 20 August,  and in accordance with those instructions a number of trades were placed.
On 30 August 2016, additional trades of £9,400 were placed. Again, confirmation was sent 
by Sterling Wealth.
In February 2019 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) started accepting
claims relating to the portfolio as some of the non-standard investments had become illiquid,
meaning they couldnt be sold or traded. Mr A asked the FSCS to investigate a claim against 
his previous IFA for unsuitable advice to invest in that portfolio. The FSCS rejected that 
claim, on the basis that the first purchase didn't happen until 27 August 2015, so it could only 
have been performed by Sterling Wealth, which was still trading.
Mr A complained to Sterling Wealth, which sent its final response in March 2021, saying it 
didnt agree with the FSCS decision as it wasnt responsible for the advice to invest in the 
portfolio  that advice having been given by the previous IFA. Sterling Wealth said it had not 
taken on the previous IFAs liabilities. So Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Sterling Wealth had taken 
on responsibility for Mr A and, as the funds were invested in the portfolio after this 
happened, it was responsible for this  even though the original advice to transfer had been 
given by the previous IFA.
The investigator asked Sterling Wealth to carry out a calculation to establish if Mr A has 
suffered a loss and, if he has, to compensate him for that loss. He also recommended that it 
pay compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the 
uncertainty over the potential losses.
Sterling Wealth did not accept the investigators findings and so the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice to invest some of Mr As funds in the portfolio was given by the previous IFA. 
However, by the time the transactions took place Mr A was a client of Sterling Wealth. So I 
agree Sterling Wealth was responsible for the transactions proceeding. By that date, Sterling 
Wealth was noted as Mr As IFA and it gave the instructions for the transactions to go ahead.
Sterling Wealth took on the previous IFAs clients following an agreement said to be by way 
of novation  which generally means that the existing contract continues, but with a new 
party taking the place of one of the original parties. In this case, that meant Sterling Wealth 
took the place of the previous IFA.
Sterling Wealth says it didnt give Mr A advice, and shouldnt be responsible for the actions 
of another firm. The advice may have been given by the previous IFA but, as Ive explained, 
by the time the transaction took place Mr A was Sterling Wealths client. Sterling Wealth has 
argued that it didnt take on any liabilities of the previous firm but it hasnt provided evidence 
to confirm this. Based on the information I have, Im satisfied Sterling Wealth is responsible.
I would expect an IFA taking on a new client to review the clients circumstances within a 
reasonable time, looking at their existing investments and taking into account the clients 
attitude to risk. Sterling Wealths terms of business say it will offer an initial discussion, and 
gather information about the clients circumstances and their aims and objectives, before 
making recommendations.In this case, Mr A didnt have a review until 2017. By not reviewing his circumstances at the 
time, Sterling Wealth missed the opportunity to advise on the suitability of his investments. It 
could have reviewed whether this would be suitable for Mr A but instead went ahead with 
instructions to place the new trades without having reviewed this. The online platform has 
confirmed that the purchases were instructed by Sterling Wealth, which was the adviser 
holding the agency.
When Mr A sought recommendations for £40,000 he had available to invest in December 
2014, his funds were invested in a number of regulated pooled investments, providing what 
Id consider a balanced risk portfolio. 
That investment approach was consistent with the latest risk assessment, in May 2014, 
where Mr A placed himself as a moderate risk taker. He said he wished to split the new 
investment with 62.5% being capital protected and 37.5% at a higher risk level. I would 
consider this to be a medium risk approach.
Mr A was advised to switch to the new platform in order to access a particular portfolio (the 
P6 portfolio). This portfolio is a discretionary managed investment portfolio offering access to 
mini bonds. These are short-term loans to smaller businesses, which cant be traded on the 
stock market and are not covered by the FSCS. As they include unregulated investments in 
overseas commercial property, I wouldnt consider them to be suitable for someone with a 
moderate risk tolerance.
Mr A was advised to invest 30% of his pension portfolio into this portfolio. The FCA
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice report 2010 gives an 
example of good practice when advising sophisticated, high net worth individuals, limiting 
investment in unregulated investments to no more than 3%-5% of the portfolio, with this 
being backed-up by robust and on-going due diligence and monitoring. Sterling Wealth 
should have been aware that a much higher proportion of Mr As pension fund would be 
invested into these unregulated funds  well above the proportion recommended. 
I dont consider this was suitable for Mr A, who didnt fit the profile of the limited group of 
sophisticated high net worth investors for whom unregulated investments may be suitable.
On that basis, I think it was unsuitable. And as Ive explained, Sterling Wealth was 
responsible for facilitating this. So the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr A as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Its my opinion the advice to transfer was designed to facilitate the investment into the 
portfolio described above. I think that had Mr A received suitable advice to remain with his 
previous provider, he would have accepted that advice. As Sterling Wealth was responsible 
for actioning the investment transactions, it should have realised they were unsuitable and 
reviewed the previous advice given at that point. Im satisfied that what I have set out below 
is fair and reasonable in this situation.
Any loss Mr A has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of 
the pension if it had been with the previous provider, and subtracting the current 
value of the pension from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain 
and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr As pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
If Mr A hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Sterling Wealth should pay Mr A £250 for the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to him
Sterling Wealth should provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wise deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Wise should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From To Additional 
interest
Novia 
pension
P6 portfolioSome
liquid/some
illiquidNotional 
value
from 
previous
providerDate of
Disinvestment 
from previous 
providerDate of
settlement8% simple 
per year from 
the date of 
my final 
decision to 
the date of 
payment (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the date of settlement, any residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Sterling Wealth should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Sterling Wealth pays should be 
included in the actual value before compensation is calculated. 
If Sterling Wealth is unable to purchase the illiquid investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr A provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Sterling Wealth will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr A's investment had it remained with the previous provider until
the end date. Sterling Wealth should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the pension should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the pension paid to Mr A should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept the total of those payments being deducted at the end to 
determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sterling Wealth Ltd to pay the fair 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman