DRN-3550228
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card irresponsibly provided him with a 
credit card for which he was unable to afford the repayments.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with NewDay in December 2019. It accepted it and provided 
him with a card with a credit limit of £1,200. However he got into difficulties in keeping up 
with the repayments. In October 2021 he entered into a repayment plan with NewDay and 
the card account was effectively closed from then.
Mr M made a complaint to NewDay that he couldnt afford the card repayments, particularly 
from October 2021 when NewDay advised him it was increasing the interest rate.
NewDay said it carried out proportionate checks to assess the affordability of the credit. 
These included assessing his credit score against his income. It assessed that he was able 
to afford the card taking into account the minimum payment needed if the whole credit limit 
was used.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator said that in light of the defaults on 
his record, together with the amount of debt including recent payday loans, the checks 
carried out demonstrated that Mr M would have been unlikely to be able to make his 
repayments sustainably. 
NewDay disagreed, pointing out that Mr Ms details had been assessed against a number of
external sources of data. Mr M also met NewDays internal lending criteria which is why his
application was accepted with a credit limit of £1,200.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to the credit amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The credit check carried out by NewDay revealed that Mr M had 7 active accounts and 
£1,800 outstanding in unsecured debt. Of this debt, £252 consisted of payday loans. In 
addition to this, Mr M had 5 outstanding defaults which totalled £9,200  the most recent 
default being 22 months before the application. Mr M had missed a payment on one of the 
payday loans in the previous 6 months.
When assessing affordability NewDay took details of Mr Ms salary, which I understand was 
£20,000 gross (around £1,400 a month net). I understand that Mr M passed NewDays 
internal lending criteria. I also note that in the first couple of months Mr M spent several 
hundred pounds on gambling. However he didnt use the card for gambling after that. 
But whilst I note the overall figures NewDay has given us, which may have resulted in the 
credit score it was given by the credit reference agency, I havent really seen that it 
addressed affordability. Whilst the defaults were over 22 months old they were nevertheless 
quite substantial, and NewDay has told us theres no record of any repayment plan being set 
up in respect of any accounts. Which means they were still outstanding and should have 
been taken into account in any assessment. Ive also seen no evidence that Mr Ms 
outgoings against his income were assessed. These included credit/loan repayments (for 
which Ive only seen total debt, not repayments) and any day-to-day living expenses or debts 
not shown in a credit report. Additionally whilst the existence of payday loans wouldnt be a 
bar to a credit card being issued, in conjunction with other factors it was an indication that 
Mr M would likely have had problems in taking on any new credit.
So I think that from the evidence put forward and the checks NewDay carried out, Mr M was 
unlikely to have been able to sustain the payments on the credit card.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr M should 
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Mr Ms credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once Mr M has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from 
their credit file. *HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things Right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman