DRN-4316313
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have refused to refund £5,600 
he lost to a cryptocurrency investment scam in September 2022. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt disputed that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made to his 
cryptocurrency wallets using his Halifax debit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting position 
is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr A from falling 
victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the first two payments made by Mr A, I dont think these were 
enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Halifax, as they were of a 
relatively low value. I recognise the third payment Mr A made on 5 September 2022 
of £4,500 was a large amount of money. But when compared to Mr As previous 
spend in the weeks leading up to the scam, I dont think it was unusual enough for 
Halifax to have intervened. For example, Mr A made a payment of £5,000 on 28 July 
2022 and £5,000 on 2 September 2022. I recognise Mr A feels the larger 
transactions were to legitimate payees but so were all the disputed transactions. Not 
all cryptocurrency payments are made as the result of a scam and I dont think Mr A 
paying a cryptocurrency exchange alone should have caused Halifax concern when 
the size of the payment was unusual for him. 
So having considered the payments Mr A made, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought to reasonably have triggered Halifaxs fraud monitoring systems, 
or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear hes been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Halifax 
liable for his loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr As loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman