DRN-1444975
 
The complaint
Mr P complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened 
Mr P took out five instalment loans with Lending Stream between June 2015 and January 
2017. There was a gap of more than a year between loans 4 and 5. 
Heres a table showing more information:
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest* 
Monthly 
Repayment*
108/06/2015 18/09/2015 6 £500.00 £216.00
204/07/2015 18/09/2015 6 £500.00 £426.40
308/11/2015 15/12/2015 6 £250.00 £106.00
415/12/2015 15/12/2015 6 £750.00 £324.00
527/01/2017 outstanding 6 £1,100.00 £466.40
* this shows the amount of combined repayments where loans overlap
Mr P said that Lending Stream issued loans to him when it shouldnt have and hes now in a 
debt management plan.
When he complained to Lending Stream it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and 
the loans Lending Stream issued were fair and affordable based on the information Mr P 
provided at the time and the checks that were carried out. 
So Mr P brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator said that she considered loans 1 - 4 and loan 5 (on its own) as two separate 
lending chains, given the length of time between Mr P paying loan 4 and taking out loan 5.  
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ps circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr P for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr P had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. So she didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. 
Mr P says he accepts what our adjudicator has said about loans 1 - 4. But he disagreed with 
our adjudicators view about loan 5 and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. In 
particular, Mr P feels that if Lending Stream had checked his credit file then it wouldve seen 
a number of existing loans.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr P before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ps applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It relied on information Mr P provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. It says the 
information Mr P provided and what it knew about his financial situation didnt suggest that 
repaying the loans would become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. 
Looking at the first four loans, I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Lending 
Stream to give Mr P these loans. And as Mr P says he accepts what our adjudicator said 
about these loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
And like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between loan 4 and loan 5 was long 
enough for Lending Stream reasonably to think that Mr P had put his finances in order as it 
looked like he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr P applied for loan 5 in January 
2017, around 13 months or so after hed paid loan 4, he was effectively starting over. So 
I think it was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess 
his lending requests accordingly.
I think that the amounts that Mr P needed to repay on this loan wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared with the take home pay hed declared. Lending Stream said it did credit 
checks to see what Mr Ps other credit obligations were at the time and he still met all 
reasonable affordability criteria. And Lending Stream took into account that Mr P said he was 
spending £200 on other credit expenses.
Given the information Lending Stream had recorded about his circumstances, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to make more in depth enquiries into what 
Mr P had said (or omitted to say) about his financial situation. The information Lending 
Stream relied on, reasonably in my view since it had no reason to question the information 
Mr P provided, didnt suggest this loan was likely to be unsustainably affordable for him.
Im sorry that Mr P found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ps 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Lending Stream obtained. But in order to uphold his complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman