DRN-3767556
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has declined to make payment in full for treatment for her dog.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it her in 
detail.
Briefly stated, Mrs Bs puppy, who Ill refer to as B, developed a lump which was removed by 
his vet. Mrs B claimed for the cost of this treatment from C&G who initially declined the claim 
on the ground that the surgery was elective. It subsequently reviewed its decision and 
agreed to pay that part of Mrs Bs claim that related to the initial surgery. It continued to 
decline her claim for the cost of subsequent treatment that was required because B was 
self-traumatizing the wound and preventing it from healing which necessitated another 
procedure.
C&G relies upon the following policy term for declining the claim:
General Conditions
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or 
any other persons or animals."
The vets notes show that B was provided with a buster collar and a medishirt to prevent 
damage to the would from scratching, and his left hind foot was dressed to help reduce the 
chance of self-trauma. According to the vet, this is usually sufficient to prevent self-trauma 
in most dogs. When B returned to the vet on10 December 2021 he had a fluffy sock taped 
to his paw and his owners were advised that a sock should be placed over a bandage.
C&G argues that inappropriate methods were used by Mrs B to protect the wound, and that 
reasonable steps werent taken to prevent B from accessing it.  
Mrs B continues to be unhappy with C&Gs attempts to deny her claim in full and isnt willing 
to settle for the reduced amount that C&G has agreed to pay.   
Our investigators view was that due care was taken as Mrs B followed the aftercare 
recommended by the vet. He also considered that the policy terms dont exclude all 
accidental injuries or self-inflicted injuries or trauma. His view also included that as C&G had 
twice declined claims from Mrs B when it shouldnt have, Mrs B was caused distress for 
which he recommended C&G pay her £100 compensation.
C&G doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I consider that the policy term which C&G relies upon to decline Mrs Bs claim is very 
plainly inapplicable in these circumstances. B wasnt out of control in the manner that term 
suggests, and the due care that has to be taken is to prevent a dogs escape which might 
then lead to injury to itself, other persons, or other animals. In my view it is inapplicable to 
cover the situation of a dog that causes injury to itself from scratching.
Secondly, even if the term could be strained to such an extent as to cover Bs situation, I 
dont consider that there was a lack of due care on Mrs Bs part. She was using the buster 
collar and medishirt that the vet said were usually sufficient to prevent damage to wounds. 
She asked the vet to put a bandage on Bs left hind foot to prevent further scratching. She 
also used a fluffy sock taped in place to prevent damage from B scratching himself. I dont 
know what more could have been done.
In my view C&G has acted wholly unreasonably in declining to pay Mrs Bs the £667.26 she 
has claimed for the cost of Bs second operation and Im going to require it to pay this to her. 
I also consider that C&G declining a claim in these circumstances wouldve been the cause 
of considerable upset and distress to Mrs B due to the considerable amount of time she has 
spent and the inconvenience and anxiety she has had to suffer to achieve a fair outcome. I 
think this requires more by way of compensation than the £100 suggested by our 
investigator. I consider that in this case Mrs B should receive £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mrs Bs 
claim for £667.26. If Mrs B has already paid to the vet any part of the sum claimed, 
this should be reimbursed to her.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs B 
interest on any sum so paid to her by way of reimbursement at the simple rate of 8% 
from the date she made payment to the date that payment is made to her. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs B 
£200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman