DRN-3031628
Complaint
Mr T says J D Williams & Company Limited (trading as Premier Man) irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says his credit limit shouldnt have been increased so many times when he was only 
ever covering the minimum payment.
Background
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account Premier Man initially provided to Mr T 
in October 2007. Mr T was initially given a credit limit of between £125 and £250. This limit 
was increased 6 times until it eventually reached £3,000.00 in December 2011. Mr T fell into 
arrears and his account eventually entered into a debt management plan.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought the limit increases from the 
fifth one onwards, in November 2010, shouldnt have been given. Premier Man didnt agree 
and the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Premier Man needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Premier Man should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought it Premier Man unfairly increased      
Mr Ts credit limit from November 2010 onwards. As Premier Man didnt elaborate upon its 
reasons for disagreeing, I dont know what it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Nonetheless, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Premier Mans lending history with    
Mr T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Premier Man should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Premier Man 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased Mr Ts credit limit.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I also think that this point was reached in 
November 2010. I say this because proportionate checks would have shown Premier Man 
that Mr T was having difficulty managing his money. Mr T was in a cycle of payday lending 
and was relying on further lending in order to repay what he already owed. Hed also only 
made the minimum payment due on his account  and not making any real inroads into what 
he owed - for most of the year leading up to November 2010 
So I think that proportionate checks will have shown Premier Man that Mr T was already 
struggling to sustainably repay what he owed and that there was a significant risk increasing 
his credit limit in these circumstances would lead to his indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably.
I think that Mr T lost out because Premier Man continued to increasing Mr Ts credit limit 
from November 2010 onwards because this unfairly prolonged Mr Ts indebtedness by 
allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the interest 
being added got him into further debt. So Premier Man should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Premier Man needs to do to put things right for Mr T
rework the account to ensure that from November 2010 onwards interest is 
only charged on the first £2,500.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and 
over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Premier Man should contact Mr T to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for this. If Premier Man considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Mr Ts credit file, it should backdate this to November 
2010.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr T, along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Premier Man should remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Premier Man to take off tax from this interest. Premier 
Man must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Premier Man sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser 
and an outstanding balance remain, Premier Man would either need to buy the account back 
from the third party and make the necessary adjustments, or pay an amount to the third 
party in order for it to make the necessary adjustments. If Mr T has settled the account 
already then any compensation due (when any payments made to the debt purchaser are 
taken into account) should be paid directly to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. J D Williams & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman