DRN-4191323
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have been sending him emails regarding his credit 
card during the night.  
What happened
Mr T has held a credit card with TSB since 2021 and his account is set up to receive 
paperless statements. 
In February 2023, Mr T received an email from TSB at 12.53am. This email was a reminder 
that his online statement hadnt yet been viewed. Mr T says receiving this email woke him up 
and kept him awake for most of the night. He tried to resolve why he had been sent an email 
at that time of the night regarding a balance he had already repaid. However, TSBs online 
chat bot couldnt help. Mr T was then passed to a live adviser who explained the email had 
been sent as a statement had recently been produced. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T logged a complaint. TSB responded on 10 February 2023 and 
explained why the payment Mr T had made to clear his balance wasnt showing on the 
statement. TSB said it was sorry the time the email was sent had disturbed Mr T. TSB also 
said that if Mr T needs it to work differently with him, for example due to a physical or mental 
need, he should get in contact.
Mr T responded and said his complaint hadnt been answered and again asked why he had 
been sent an email at 12.53am, for a matter that wasnt urgent. Mr T also said he was very 
unhappy with TSBs comments about discussing life changing event or mental health needs. 
After some further correspondence from Mr T, TSB issued a further response. This said that 
the sending of emails like the one Mr T received, was an automated process. TSB advised 
that Mr T could opt out of paperless statements and that it didnt mean to upset him with the 
wording around working differently with him. This was merely to let him know TSB could try 
to tailor its support. 
Mr T remained unhappy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and said the emails sent at night were due to 
bandwidth use and this was a fair decision. The investigator advised that Mr T could adjust 
the setting on his device to prevent any email notifications disturbing his sleep. 
Mr T said he shouldnt have to amend his phone setting and TSB should instead change the 
timing of when emails are sent. Mr T also explained that TSB shouldnt have stated about 
mental health needs to him. 
As Mr T remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The timing of when emails are sent is a commercial decision TSB is entitled to make. TSB 
has explained it sends bulk emails, like the one Mr T received, overnight. This is because 
there is available bandwidth, which is reasonable. I appreciate Mr T strength of feeling about 
receiving emails during the night. But I dont think TSBs being unfair here in sending emails 
when it has.
TSB has explained that Mr T can switch to paper statements which is a reasonable way to 
resolve this issue. Alternatively, Mr T could do as the investigator suggested and amend his 
device setting to ensure notifications received during the night dont disturb his sleep. 
Mr T is unhappy that TSB mentioned he should contact it if he has mental health needs. TSB 
has apologised and confirmed it wasnt its intention to upset him. Im satisfied in making 
reference to life changing events and physical/mental needs, TSB was making sure Mr T 
was aware TSB could look to offer tailored support if Mr T was experiencing those kinds of 
circumstances. This is in-line with what I would expect TSB to do. 
I can see that Mr T is also unhappy TSBs chat bot couldnt help and then how long it took 
for him to be connected to a live agent. Looking at the chat transcript, I can understand why 
the chat bot wasnt able to help. Mr T initially mis-spelt credit card and followed that up with 
singular words that didnt provide any detail as to what his query was. So, he was correctly 
referred to a live agent who responded three minutes later. This was inside the 15-minute 
timeframe TSB had advised.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman