DRN-3193686
Complaint
Mrs S has complained about the changes HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) 
made to its overdraft charging structure in 2020. She says that the interest rate has been 
increased to an unfair amount.
Background
At the end of 2019, First Direct wrote to Mrs S and told her that the way it was charging for 
overdrafts was changing. There would no longer be a distinction between arranged and 
unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to her overdraft was 
increasing to 39.95%. Mrs S complained saying this new rate was unfair. 
Mrs S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that First Direct 
had done anything wrong as it had notified Mrs S of the upcoming changes to her overdraft 
in advance of it happening and it didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in 
financial difficulty. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So to 
start with First Direct has made a change that it is entitled to make. 
That said, while Im not looking at First Directs charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S if it implemented these changes unfairly. I 
understand that Mrs S is unhappy because shed previously been able to use her facility at a 
much lower interest rate and this helped her smooth out any difficulties whenever her 
tenants didnt pay rent on time. But while Mrs S may have been happier with the lower 
interest rate and may have found it more helpful to her situation, ultimately, up to First Direct 
how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business decision for it to 
make. 
First Direct appears to have notified Mrs S of these changes in advance of them happening. 
But even though this is the case, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S 
if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs S account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether First Direct ought to have suspected Mrs S was in 
financial difficulty. 
Ive looked through Mrs S statements in the lead up to the change and I cant see that First 
Direct ought to have been aware that Mrs S might have been struggling. There were regular 
credits going in and Mrs S even managed to clear the overdrafts. Plus the changes were in 
any event delayed as a result of the pandemic. 
I know Mrs S might have cleared her overdraft balance as a result of using funds shed 
preferred to have used for other purposes. But I dont think this is enough to say First Direct 
should have realised she was in difficulty or that it was unfair to implement the changes to 
her account when it did. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said earlier about its entitlement to 
make changes to a pricing structure, I dont think that First Direct has treated Mrs S unfairly. 
So it doesnt need to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mrs S 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs S. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman