DRN-3365703
The complaint
B, a limited company, has complained about how Paratus AMC Limited trading as 
Foundation Home Loans, handled an application for a mortgage on a buy-to-let (BTL) 
property. Bs directors are unhappy about Paratus enquiries and requirements, including 
their timing, regarding the funding of the deposit for the purchase.  They are also unhappy 
that they were required to put in place guarantee and indemnity insurance and gift deposit 
insurance. In addition, they arent happy about having to put buildings insurance in place 
before the purchase completed or with the amount they had to insure the property for, as 
they think it was higher than the rebuild cost.
In settlement of the complaint the directors want all costs associated with the failed 
application reimbursed, a sum for loss of profit and £10,000 for loss of reputation.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019 B started the process of applying for a mortgage with Paratus to 
buy a property, which would be rented out. The mortgage application was made through an 
independent mortgage broker. 
At the beginning of January 2020 Paratus asked for various pieces of information that it 
needed to be able to progress the mortgage application. This included proof of identity and 
income. It also asked what the source of the funds for the deposit was and asked for a 
Limited Company Funding Declaration to be completed. The form gave various options for 
where the money for the deposit was coming from. In the form signed by one of Bs directors 
on 13 January 2020, it said that the source was retained funds in SPV. This meant that the 
money was owned by B and had been accrued in the normal way of its business activities.
The application was accepted and a mortgage offer was produced on 19 January 2020, 
which was valid for four months. Under the special conditions of the mortgage it stated:
6. The balance of the purchase price must be provided from the borrower's own resources 
without recourse to further borrowing. You must notify us of any matters which may affect 
the Offer, notably if the purchase price is adjusted or discounted or if any financial incentives 
are being provided. We reserve the right to amend the Offer if we feel it appropriate to do so. 
If any part of the purchase price is being provided by a person who is not named on the 
mortgage offer you should report this to us IMMEDIATELY. We will, if this has not been 
disclosed to us as part of the application need to review this and additional documentation 
may need to be completed before the advance can proceed.
16. [1] You must ensure that the buildings insurance policy effected by the borrower in 
respect of the Property meets our requirements (as set out in the Mortgage Conditions) and 
that the policy provides cover for not less than the full reinstatement value of the Property as 
specified on the enclosed valuation report. [2] The Certificate of Title must be completed fully 
and provide details of the buildings insurance policy. Funds will not be released if the 
Certificate of Title is incomplete in any respect.
17. The balance of the purchase price is being provided as described in the Limited 
Company Funding Declaration Form which accompanies this offer. You are to ensure that 
these monies are remitted to you prior to completion. We require you to undertake your own 
relevant AML checks when these funds are received.
Paratus checked in with Bs representatives about the mortgage application in May 2020, as 
nothing had been heard from them for some time. B confirmed to Paratus on 20 May 2020 
that the mortgage application should continue, and that it had encountered delays in getting 
information from the vendors. There was still outstanding information, but it was hoped that 
completion would be agreed for 1 June 2020.
The mortgage offer was due to expire on 15 May 2020. However, as completion was due on 
1 June 2020, Paratus amended the expiry date of the offer so that it could complete without 
the need for a new mortgage offer being issued and accepted, along with other associated 
documentation being provided. 
Completion didnt take place on 1 June 2020 and Paratus subsequently issued a new 
mortgage offer This offer was valid until 15 July 2020, which was when the valuation for the 
property would cease to be valid. B was required to accept the new offer and complete a 
new funding declaration. 
On 7 July 2020 Paratus asked for an update on the property purchase, as the mortgage offer 
and valuation were due to expire the following week. It asked when the completion was due.
On 8 July 2020 Bs solicitors provided electronic copies of documents needed to allow the 
completion of the mortgage on 15 July 2020. It was confirmed that any document requiring a 
wet signature would be posted that day. The amended funding declaration included in the 
bundle said that the money for the deposit was to be provided via a directors loan, the 
source of funds was savings, which was then changed to a gift. The earlier completed 
section stating that the money was to be paid from retained funds in SPV wasnt crossed 
through, so it showed that there were two sources of funding. It was signed by one of the 
directors on 7 July 2020. 
Paratus solicitors responded on the same day by highlighting that as the deposit was now 
being funded by a directors loan, the enquiries it had made previously about the deposit 
funds needed to be re-done. It required a board minute noting the directors loan as a deposit 
and details of repayment terms on the loan, along with banking evidence of the money. It 
was also confirmed that it usually took five working days for funds to be released. 
Paratus solicitors contacted Bs solicitors on 10 July 2020, as while it had received some 
original signed documents, including the certificate of title, others were missing  personal 
guarantees and independent legal advice (ILA) certificates. It said that it would need the 
missing documents before completion and asked for confirmation of the position as soon as 
possible. In addition, it required a gift deposit indemnity insurance be put in place when the 
mortgage completed if the money being lend in the directors loan had been gifted to the 
director. In addition, it pointed out that the mortgage deed hadnt been properly completed 
and asked permission to fill in the missing information.
Bs solicitors confirmed in response that the directors had the previous day sought 
independent advice about the guarantee needed for the mortgage to be granted. The 
relevant paperwork would be forwarded when it had been received. As for the gift insurance 
policy, Bs solicitors asked that a quote be provided by Paratus with the premium being 
deducted from the mortgage advance. A quote was provided, but no policy was taken out. A letter was also provided from B, dated 10 July 2020, which confirmed that the money for 
the deposit had been provided by the directors for the benefit of B. No repayment terms 
were in place and a gifted deposit indemnity insurance policy would be put on risk on 
completion of the mortgage. The policy document would then be forwarded to Paratus.
On 13 July 2020 it was confirmed by Paratus solicitors that the change in the funding of the 
deposit was an issue in advancing the mortgage on 15 July 2020. This was because the 
source of the funds needed to be evidenced and assessed. If the source of the funding was 
changing, then evidence of the new source would have to be provided and assessed. 
On 14 July 2020 the already amended funding declaration was amended again. The details 
were the same, but confirmed that the deposit was not being provided as a directors loan. A 
handwritten, signed note from one of the directors was added stating: Please note. This 
money to the company is a gift i.e. not a loan.
Paratus solicitors asked Bs solicitors for clarification about the funding. It asked for 
confirmation that the deposit was being paid from a gift from the directors, not a directors 
loan nor retained funds in the SPV as previously stated. It highlighted that the original 
application had been made on the basis that the deposit was being funded from retained 
SPV funds. It was explained that the change in the source of the deposit would effectively 
restart the need to verify the funds to be used. 
On 15 July 2020 Bs solicitors confirmed that the deposit was to be funded from a gift from 
one of the directors. Paratus solicitors responded by explaining that a gifted deposit was not 
acceptable to Paratus as it fell outside its lending criteria. However, if the source of the 
deposit reverted to the original source of funds, Paratus was still willing to proceed with the 
mortgage.
On the same day, a partner in the solicitors acting for Paratus spoke to Bs solicitors and, 
following a request, confirmed the position in an email. It was explained that the basis for the 
underwriting of the mortgage had to be consistent with the documentation. Bs application 
had been made on the basis that the balance of funds was from retained funds within the 
SPV. So if that had changed to being a director loan or a gift, it would mean that the 
application would need to be re-underwritten. The solicitors said that it appreciated that 
retained sums in the SPV had to get there somehow, but it needed to ensure the money was 
in the SPV either as initial share capital or an injection of shareholder funds, which resulted 
in the par value of each share being inflated to reflect the increased allocation of funds. It 
was asked that B confirm that the sums injected into the company for the purpose of buying 
the property in question were shareholder funds, and that the payer was holding shares that 
were representative of that value.
Two days later, after the mortgage offer had expired, Bs solicitors confirmed that the 
application was to proceed on the basis of the deposit being provided by a directors loan. 
Bs solicitors were told that the funding would have to be validated, as it was different from 
that which had previously been validated and what was required for that to happen. It was 
also pointed out that some of the documentation from the start of the process had expired, 
including the valuation, and so updated evidence would be needed.  Paratus also confirmed 
that a new offer would then need to be issued, as it would need different conditions linked to 
it. 
The property purchase didnt go ahead, as the vendor withdrew from the transaction, and B 
complained to Paratus.
Paratus responded to the complaint. It explained that it had different terms and conditions 
that needed to be met, depending on where the deposit for a purchase came from. It highlighted that on 8 July 2020 Bs solicitors had provided revised documentation informing it 
of a change in how the deposit was being funded. This meant that different conditions had to 
be met, which Bs solicitors were told about within three working days. Subsequently, further 
information on the funding was given, which meant that the deposit arrangements didnt fall 
within Paratus lending criteria. There were then further changes and the funding 
arrangement was settled on, which meant a change to the terms and conditions and meant a 
new mortgage offer was needed. The directors then needed to provide further evidence of 
the funding arrangement. By this point the valuation had expired and some other evidence 
was out of date. Paratus apologised to the need to re-request this information, given it had 
previously been provided, but it was satisfied that its processes had been followed correctly. 
Paratus solicitors responded to Bs points regarding the administrative processes it 
undertook for Paratus. It highlighted that it had been five months after the application before 
Bs solicitors had become engaged in the process. It confirmed that there had been no 
communication between itself and the broker and that was normal, as there wasnt any 
reason for such contact. In relation to the question about a delay due to it having incorrectly  
requested deeds which caused delays, Paratus solicitors confirmed that it had asked for 
information from Bs solicitors to investigate the title, but this had been requested in a 
standardised online form that had been widely used for many years. 
In relation to Bs concern that a trainee solicitor had worked on its application, it was 
confirmed that while a trainee did complete work on the case, there was oversight by a fully 
qualified solicitor. The work done had been reviewed and Paratus solicitors was satisfied it 
had been done in a timely manner, was relevant and accurate. The involvement of the fully 
qualified solicitor at the end of the process didnt change the situation, he simply reinforced 
what Bs solicitors had already been told. 
As for the matter relating to the funding of the deposit, it was explained that Paratus normal 
process was to require that a limited company confirm the source of the money that would 
be used for the deposit. It was a condition of the mortgage offer that evidence of the source 
of the funds is verified. The solicitors set out what it had been told at various points about 
how the deposit would be funded. It confirmed that it had checked the source of the funds 
based on what it had been told initially. However, B decided to change the source of the 
funds late in the process, which would necessitate further checks. It said that Bs broker and 
solicitors would have been able to explain to B that changing the source of the deposit part 
of the way through the process would cause delays. Unfortunately, by the time a final 
decision about how where the money would come from had been made, which was different 
from the original source, the mortgage offer had expired. 
Paratus solicitors then went on to confirm that B had been asked to arrange buildings 
insurance for the amount the mortgage valuation had said was the rebuild cost. This was a 
condition of the mortgage offer. In relation to the guarantee and indemnity insurance it was 
explained that Paratus required directors of limited companies it was lending to, to provide 
personal guarantees as security. If B chose to arrange an insurance policy to protect the 
directors against that risk, that was not a decision Paratus or its solicitor was involved in. In 
addition, it was confirmed that the gifted deposit insurance that a quote had been provided 
for, was not put in place and so no cost had been incurred.
B wasnt satisfied with Paratus response and asked us to consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators did so, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. In relation to the 
core of the complaint, he concluded that the reason the mortgage didnt complete was due to 
the late changes made to the funding arrangements for the deposit. He didnt think it was 
unreasonable for the lender to decline to lend when the application appeared to fall outside 
of its lending criteria or to want to validate the new source of the funds if the deposit was to be paid by a directors loan. The investigator had also been satisfied that the reason for the 
first offer expiring was due to delays from Bs side of the process. He was also satisfied that 
the requirement for the guarantee was a mortgage condition and not unreasonable, as B 
didnt have to accept the mortgage offer if the directors didnt want to give the guarantee 
required.
B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. The directors said that B had gone through 
many requests and stringent requirements of Paratus and had succeeded until two days 
before the proposed completion date. At that point Paratus solicitors had introduced new 
requirements. They considered that this delay had been due to the fact that most of the 
activity on the account had been done by a trainee solicitor. The directors took advice about 
the information Paratus needed if the money paid to B by the directors had been an injection 
of funds and were told that it was out of order and totally unnecessary. At that stage, the 
vendors moved to sell the property to another buyer. 
In relation to the funding declaration, it was pointed out that this was a standard form with 
tick boxes. B highlighted that its previous application had completed successfully with no 
problems. B wanted to know why the declaration on this application was not accepted. It said 
that Paratus had wanted to know if the funds had been a loan or a gift and that confusion 
arose because the funds had been in Bs account for some time, some of which had been 
used for the deposit for the previous mortgage with Paratus. B thinks that what Paratus 
effectively said was that it was unable to buy the property unless it changed its structure. 
This was unnecessary and why the application failed. 
The directors said that the second declaration had been incorrectly filled in  they had ticked 
box 1 rather than box 5. They considered that this could have easily been rectified by a 
simple phone call, but that didnt happen. They said the reason the declaration was changed 
a number of times was because Paratus didnt like any of the forms completed. 
B asked why Paratus had made them pay for an independent solicitor and for an indemnity 
policy if the mortgage was never to go through. They knew about these fees from previous 
applications, but only paid the fees when the application was successful. However, in this 
case, fees were taken and B received nothing. The directors dont think this could be right. 
They also repeated that they disagreed with the surveyors opinion about the rebuild cost of 
the property they wanted to buy, but they said they have accepted the anomaly if that is the 
price to pay. In comparison to the other losses they have incurred, this is a minor issue.
Our investigator considered Bs further comment, but they didnt change his mind. He 
provided clarification about what we could consider against what party  that Paratus could 
be held responsible for the actions of the solicitors. However, he remained of the view that 
the solicitors were carrying out necessary tasks on behalf of the lender and didnt act 
incorrectly. 
B asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. It reiterated that there was no 
good reason for why the application was declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially clarify a point of concern B has raised about our jurisdiction, as I believe 
there has been a misunderstanding. Our investigator confirmed that the solicitor, as a 
business in its own right, doesnt fall within our remit. That is correct and it means that we 
cant set up a complaint against it and make findings about its actions. However, where the solicitor was acting on behalf of Paratus in relation to the lending application, we can 
consider what happened. However, any findings we make would be against Paratus, as the 
business responsible for those acts. This is what our investigator did when he assessed the 
complaint and I will be doing in this decision.
The main issue in this complaint is to do with the application failing, and I will deal with that 
later in this decision. However there have been some points raised about guarantees and 
insurances that B believes has caused a loss. I would initially explain that a lender is allowed 
to set its own lending criteria and mortgage conditions as a matter of its commercial 
judgement. As long as those criteria and conditions are not blatantly unfair on a generic 
basis and are applied equally to all its customers, those decisions are not something this 
service would interfere with. 
The mortgage applied for is a commercial one and as such, Paratus requires the directors of 
a limited company to provide it with personal guarantees in the event of a shortfall on the 
funds it receives back on the mortgage. B would have known about this requirement before it 
applied for the mortgage as it had arranged another mortgage with Paratus the previous 
year. Where such a condition is placed on individuals, it is not unreasonable for them to be 
required to take independent legal advice to ensure they understand what they are 
committing to and the implications it could have on their personal finances. That is what 
Paratus did. However, it didnt require the directors to take out an insurance policy to protect 
themselves from any potential liability that could arise. It would appear that was something 
suggested by the directors own advisers. So while they would have always incurred the cost 
of the independent advice, it was not Paratus responsibility if they also incurred costs for an 
insurance policy. I would also comment that such a policy wouldnt usually be put on 
risk/start until the mortgage had completed, which didnt happen, so it is not clear why the 
directors would have incurred a cost for the insurance policy. 
Requiring a property to be insured from the point of exchange of contracts is a common 
requirement for mortgages of all types. I dont consider it was unreasonable for Paratus to 
require this to be arranged. However, again, the cost of this insurance would usually only be 
incurred at the point contracts were exchanged, which it doesnt appear happened in this 
case. While B disagreed with the amount the surveyor set for the rebuild cost, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Paratus to rely on an independent, expert opinion in this regard. Had 
B disagreed at the time, it could have arranged for its own expert opinion to evidence a lower 
rebuild cost. 
The potential for a gift insurance policy was raised before Paratus had confirmed that it didnt 
accept gifted deposits. Many lenders have concerns about gifted deposits and some wont 
agree to lending where that is the source of the deposit. I cant find Paratus to be in the 
wrong by not accepting such applications. As for the cost of a potential insurance policy, as 
one was not taken out, there can be no loss.
The directors appear to have suggested that the fact it was a trainee solicitor was 
corresponding with Bs solicitors the majority of the time somehow meant that application 
wasnt dealt with correctly. I have read all of the emails provided by both Bs solicitors and 
Paratus solicitors in this regard and I have seen nothing that indicates Bs solicitors were 
given incorrect information or direction. As such, I dont consider the fact that a trainee 
solicitor was involved in much of the work on Bs application is relevant to the situation. 
The directors have said that two completion dates were missed because of delays caused 
by Paratus and its representatives. I will comment on the second of the proposed completion 
dates later in this decision, but I dont agree that the failure to complete on 1 June 2020 
could be blamed on Paratus causing delays. The mortgage offer was made in January 2020 
and four months later the application hadnt moved forward. When Paratus made enquiries about what was happening it was confirmed that the delay was due to the vendors not 
providing B and its solicitors with information. Indeed, at that point there was still outstanding 
information. The mortgage doesnt appear to have completed because of things on Bs side 
of the transaction over which Paratus had no control or responsibility.
I note that B has said that it already had a mortgage with Paratus, which had gone through in 
2019 without any problems. It has confirmed that the deposit in that case was paid via a 
directors loan. While that may be the case, the fact that mortgage went through without 
problem doesnt mean that Paratus did anything wrong in relation to the mortgage subject to 
this complaint. The problems arose because B decided just over a week before the 
proposed completion date to tell Paratus that it was changing how it was funding the deposit.
When the application was submitted Paratus was told that the money for the deposit was 
retained funds owned by B. It asked for evidence of the source of the funds and assessed 
that information. In this case Paratus was satisfied that the money involved had been 
retained in Bs bank account for some time and it agreed the mortgage on that basis.
All lenders will ask questions about the source of deposit funds, as they are guided to do by 
industry bodies. If such checks are completed satisfactorily, but further information about the 
source of a deposit becomes available or the source of funds is changed, a lender would be 
expected to complete further checks and verify the new source of the funds. These 
additional checks will always take time, but that additional time wouldnt be considered as an 
unnecessary delay on the part of the lender. 
When the replacement mortgage offer was accepted and the funding declaration was 
updated, the information contained in the declaration was confusing. It detailed that the 
money was coming from both retained funds, as had been said when the application had 
been submitted, and also from a directors loan. The directors loan funds were detailed as 
coming from savings and later a gift. This confusion in the information provided was pointed 
out to Bs solicitors immediately and it was asked to confirm the source of the funds. It was 
also confirmed that Paratus was willing to progress the mortgage if the source of the funding 
was confirmed to be the same as the application had initially been assessed on. However, if 
a new source of funds was confirmed, further information about its source would be needed 
and a new assessment completed. 
Further information about the funding was given in that it was explained that the money was 
coming from funds retained by B, but that those funds had come from a gift its directors had 
made. It was explained that Paratus didnt allow gifted deposits and the application couldnt 
continue on that basis. This is the point where there was a telephone discussion between 
the two solicitors. Bs solicitors asked for the requirements discussed to be confirmed in an 
email. It would appear that a discussion was held about how the money paid to B by the 
directors could be treated in a different way. That being that rather than it being a gift, the 
money be considered an injection of funds into the business. The email that B considered 
set out inappropriate requirements, was setting out what would be needed for the money to 
be viewed in that way, rather than as a gift.  It would seem Paratus solicitors were simply 
setting out the requirements of an alternative way forward for the application.
I know that B will not be satisfied with my conclusions, but I dont think Paratus was 
responsible for the mortgage failing to be advanced and the property purchase falling 
through. There were delays in the early part of the process caused by the vendor, and then 
in the latter stages by changes in the information Paratus was given about the source of the 
funds for the deposit, which had to be resolved before the mortgage could be advanced. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 
9 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman