DRN-3285761
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly reduced 
the value of a life policy. It said Aviva hasnt fully explained why the amount it received was 
less than previously quoted.  
The estate of Mrs D is being represented by her daughters, Mrs S and Mrs L. For ease, Ill 
refer to Mrs S throughout this decision, with whom weve had the most contact. 
What happened
In 1998 Mrs Ss parents, Mr and Mrs D, took out a whole of life with profits endowment policy 
through an insurer, which has since been taken over by Aviva. 
In a statement issued by Aviva on 26 March 2019, the policy was valued at £180,966.42. 
Mrs D, having survived Mr D, sadly passed away on 3 May 2020 and Mrs S made a claim. In 
October 2020 Aviva paid the claim which had reduced in value to £151,417.91. 
Mrs S complained to Aviva about the reduced value of the claim  in particular the final 
bonus rate - and the lack of information as to how this had been calculated. 
Aviva explained that the final bonus rate isnt guaranteed, it said the amount paid is reviewed 
regularly to ensure all policy holders receive a fair share of the fund. It accepted it had 
provided Mrs S with some inaccurate information, for which it paid her £250. Mrs S remained 
unhappy and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mrs S said shed not received a statement in March 2020, so didnt know if the claim value 
had changed between March 2019 and March 2020. She also said the final bonus value had 
reduced by 39.6% between March 2019 and when she made the claim  and she 
maintained Aviva hadnt provided any calculations to show how this reduced figure was 
arrived at. 
Mrs S referred to Avivas published documents in response to the coronavirus pandemic 
which said the impact of the volatile markets of 2020 on final bonuses had typically reduced 
policy pay-outs in most cases by 5% or 7.5%. She said Aviva hadnt explained why the final 
bonus in her case had reduced by 39.6%. 
Mrs S also wanted information about the fund which the final bonus is taken from. She 
wanted to know the size of the fund, how its invested and the returns for the last five years.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Aviva had explained in 
detail how the claim value had been arrived at and why it had reduced in line with market 
conditions. Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mrs S unfairly and was satisfied 
the £250 it paid Mrs S for providing inaccurate information was sufficient. 
Mrs S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs S has mentioned media reports about Aviva which she considers supportive of her 
complaint. I can understand why shes referenced these articles, but I must consider whether 
Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in her case specifically, rather than more widely, as 
our powers are limited to the facts of the specific case at hand.
Mrs S has also asked for information about the fund from which the final bonus was taken. 
This isnt something we can request on Mrs Ss behalf. I can see Aviva has provided Mrs S 
with some information about the performance of the fund in its letter to her on 27 April 2021. 
But if she wants more specific information, then she can try requesting that from Aviva. 
Ill turn now to the specifics of Mrs Ss complaint. In March 2019 Aviva sent a letter to the 
late Mrs D telling her that the current death claim value on the policy was £180,966.42. It 
also added that the final bonus, which at that time made up £59,245.43 of the total claim 
value, isnt guaranteed. So, although Aviva previously quoted £180,966.42  its not 
obligated to pay this. 
Mrs S is concerned that Aviva has miscalculated the claim value  specifically the final 
bonus. And she wants to be provided with clear calculations and formula as to how the final 
bonus reduced from £59,245.43 to £35,760.64.
Aviva has said this specific information does not exist. It said that the bonus rate used to 
calculate the claim amount in March 2019 was based on a final bonus rate applicable as of 
31 December 2018. Whereas the amount Mrs S received from the claim was based on a 
final bonus rate applicable as of April 2020. Aviva has also said:
In contrast to the much more favourable investment conditions experienced when the policy 
was last reviewed, there have been unprecedented falls in investment markets in recent 
weeks, resulting from the global impact of the coronavirus. In line with our prudent fund 
management, we have implemented an ad hoc bonus rate review which has resulted in a 
reduction in policy pay-outs of typically 5% or 7.5%.
I can see that Aviva provided Mrs S with a number responses to the points shes raised. And 
its clearly detailed the process used in determining final bonus rates in general terms. Whilst 
Avivas been unable to provide calculations and formula specific to Mrs Ss case, its been 
consistent in its position that the final bonus amount can change and is linked to the 
underlying performance of the investment at the time. Within its responses to Mrs S, Aviva 
has also provided final bonus rates going back to 2015. This clearly shows a reduction 
between the rates used in 2018 and 2020. Which in turn would mean a reduction in the 
overall claim value.  Aviva has said other factors can also impact the final bonus rate. This includes the cost of 
running the fund, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the 
profits are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid any 
drastic fluctuations).
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by the with profit fund managers. And they will decide how much of the funds 
profits are paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing, as 
explained above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have access to specific calculations, 
or if it did, to have disclosed complex or detailed breakdowns of its actuarial calculations to 
Mrs S, as this is commercially sensitive information. So, I think Aviva has provided Mrs S 
with all it reasonably can, and Ive no reason to believe the claim value she received was 
miscalculated.  
Mrs S has asked for clarification on how the final bonus rate reduced by almost 40% when 
Aviva has said the reduction in pay-outs is typically 5% or 7.5%. Aviva has said this is a 
typical figure and not an exact range for a specific fund. Its a guide based on all the With-
Profit funds we look after. 
I fully appreciate why Mrs S has raised this issue  but such reductions will vary depending 
on what the funds are invested in and the impact of the market conditions at the time on the 
specific fund in question. Im satisfied this percentage 5% or 7.5% reduction has been 
specifically applied as part of the ad hoc bonus rate review Ive referenced above, which was 
necessary because of the impact on the market conditions of the global coronavirus 
pandemic. So, this is representative of a further reduction to the final bonus rate because of 
those unique market conditions  not a total percentage reduction in the final bonus amounts 
between March 2019 and May 2020. 
Mrs S is also concerned that she didnt receive a statement in March 2020  so doesnt 
know what the value of the claim was shortly before her mother passed away. Aviva has 
explained that the statement was due to be issued within six months of the policy 
anniversary date. But before this happened, they were notified of Mrs Ds passing which 
meant statements would only be provided on request.
I can see Aviva did provide information on the claim value as of March 2020 to Mrs S in a 
letter dated 16 September 2020. I can understand why she wanted this information, but I 
dont see that it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Ultimately the claim 
was valued at the time of Mrs Ds death based on a review that was independent of any 
previous reviews. So, any previous statements or estimates based on different final bonus 
amounts arent considered nor did they impact the pay-out Mrs S received. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Ss disappointment at the difference between the March 2019 policy 
value and the pay-out she received, Ive no reason to believe Aviva miscalculated the claim 
value amount. And Im satisfied the difference came about because of the specific action 
Aviva took to reflect the relevant market conditions. Aviva has also confirmed that it took the 
decision to revise the final bonus across similar policies to that of Ms Ss to look after the 
interests of all its customers. So, I cant say shes been treated unfairly. 
Aviva accepts it provided Mrs S with inaccurate information in one of its letters to her. Its 
apologised for that, corrected its mistake, and paid her £250. That all seems fair to me, and 
in line with what Id expect to see in similar cases. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt treated Mrs S unfairly. So, Im not 
going to ask it to take any further action here. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman