DRN-3203335
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He would like the cost of repairs to be covered by 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr N entered into a 59-month conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car was just under six years old and had a mileage of about 56,500. It cost £5,995 and the 
monthly payments including the applied interest amounted to £198.77.
Within a few days of taking possession of the car Mr N says he noticed the car made a 
knocking a noise and the air conditioning wasnt working. He contacted the supplying dealer 
and obtained quotes for some of the repairs from a local garage. In September 2019 the car 
was taken back by the supplying dealer for repairs to the clutch, timing chain and mass 
flywheel to be carried out.
The car was returned to Mr N about three weeks later, but the supplying dealer said they 
werent able to repair the air conditioning which they thought needed to be re-gassed. They 
told Mr N to arrange to have that repaired locally and they would cover the cost.
Mr N took the car to a local garage but says he was told that there was a problem with the 
air conditioning compressor or pump and that the repair would be more expensive than 
previously thought. Mr N contacted the supplying dealer to explain the position. The 
supplying dealer said it would contact a local manufacturer approved garage.
Around one-week later Mr N chased up the position with the cars air conditioning with the 
supplying dealer. They asked Mr N to get a quote for the repair. Mr N sent the supplying 
dealer a text setting out that it would cost around £60 to get a diagnostic undertaken on the 
car and then around £550 plus labour to fix. However, despite a number of further attempts 
to contact the supplying dealer about how to proceed Mr N heard nothing back.
Mr N says he tried to contact Moneybarn via email in September 2019 to report the problem 
with the cars air conditioning and the lack of contact from the supplying dealer. He says he 
received an automated response.
Unfortunately, Mr N suffered ill health and did not make further contact with Moneybarn until 
March 2020 when he queried what had happened about his complaint. Mr N says he 
received another automated response that warned due to covid there would be a delay 
before it could reply. Mr N chased again in February 2021.
Moneybarn responded that it didnt have a record of earlier attempts to contact it and due to 
the time that had now passed it asked Mr N to provide a diagnostic for the air conditioning 
that would show the fault had been present since the point of supply.
Mr N was unhappy at Moneybarns response and provided it with copies of the texts and 
emails exchanges hed had with the supplying dealer. He said these proved the problem with 
the air conditioning had been present since hed first acquired the car.
Mr N complained to this service and our investigator recommended that his complaint should 
be upheld. She said there was enough evidence provided by Mr N that there had been a 
problem with the air conditioning since hed acquired the car. And that she was satisfied that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator said it would be fair for Moneybarn to now liaise with Mr N as to obtaining a 
quote to fix the cars air conditioning and if this cost was proportionate to the value of the car 
to pay for those repairs. However, if the cost is not proportionate then it should take the car 
back and unwind the agreement.
Our investigator also said that she thought the lack of the air conditioning meant the car 
wasnt performing as it should have and would have spoiled Mr Ns enjoyment and use of it. 
She said he had been caused frustration, distress and inconvenience having to deal with the 
faulty car. Our investigator thought that it would be fair for Moneybarn to reimburse 5% of the 
payments Nr N had made under that agreement from September 2019 to date together with 
£175 compensation.
Mr N has agreed with our investigators view but Moneybarn hasnt responded. As the 
parties were therefore unable to reach an agreement about this complaint it has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr N is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other relevant circumstances.
It also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being nearly six years old and it had a mileage of around 56,500, 
so I don't think a reasonable person would expect it to be fault free unlike a new car. But 
although I think it would be reasonable to expect some wear and tear, I think they would 
expect things like the air conditioning to work and that repairs wouldnt be required for a 
reasonable period of time.
Mr N has provided evidence of the contact he had with the supplying dealer within a few 
days of acquiring the car in August 2019. I think this is sufficient to show there were a 
number of issues with the car including the air conditioning. Ive seen that the faults with the 
clutch, timing chain and mass flywheel were repaired by the supplying dealer, but they were 
unable to fix the air conditioning at that time. It appears the supplying dealer thought that the 
air conditioning needed to be re-gassed at first though this later doesnt appear to have been 
the case.Looking  at the contact  between  Mr N and the supplying  dealer  I think  its fair to say there  
was an acceptance  by the dealer  that they were  responsible  for covering  the cost of the 
repairs.  I dont  know  why they stopped  communicating  with Mr N though  it appears  that 
happened  after the dealer  learnt  the air conditioning  repair  was more  expensive  than 
previously  anticipated.
I appreciate  Moneybarn  says  there  isnt a record  of Mr N making  contact  with it until 
February  2021,  but I accept  Mr Ns first contact  with Moneybarn  had actually  been  in 
September  2019.  He has been  consistent  when  setting  out the chronology  of events  
and has provided  a copy  of the automated  response  he received  from Moneybarn  when  
he first made  contact.
Ive seen  that Mr N didnt  make  further  contact  with Moneybarn  until March  2020  and 
although  this was coming  up to six months  later,  Ive seen  that Mr N has explained  that 
was due to his poor health.  He then received  another  automated  response  but this one 
warned  that covid  was causing  delays  in Moneybarns  ability  to provide  a response.  Mr 
N chased  up what  was happening  in February  2021  and although  this was nearly  a year 
later,  I think  with the pandemic  its understandable  that time drifted.  In any event  just 
because  there  was a delay  in Mr N chasing  up his complaint  doesnt  mean  the fault with 
the air conditioning  wasnt  present  at the point  of supply.
As Mr N provided  proof  that hed made  his complaint  earlier  than February  2021  and 
that the fault had been  present  since  the point  of supply  I dont  think  Moneybarn  acted  
reasonably  requiring  him to provide  a diagnostic  report.  It should  have  considered  the 
evidence  hed already  given.
So, looking  at the evidence,  Im satisfied  that the cars  air conditioning  wasnt  working  at 
the point  of supply  and that the car was therefore  faulty.  I think  the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory  quality  at the point  it was supplied  to Mr N.
Mr N has been  clear  that what  he wants  is for the cars  air conditioning  to be fixed  and 
under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  the retailer  has one opportunity  to repair.  And 
although  the retailer  took the car in for repairs  in August  2019,  they didnt  attempt  to 
repair  the air conditioning  at that point  but later said they were  willing  to cover  this cost.  I 
think  it would  be fair for Moneybarn  to now arrange  that repair  and cover  that cost.  
However,  I acknowledge  that due to the age of the car the cost of this repair  may be 
considered  uneconomical.  If that is the case,  then I think  it would  be fair for Mr N to be 
able to return  the car and to have  the agreement  ended  with nothing  further  to pay.
I agree  with the view of our investigator  that the car hasnt  performed  as Mr N 
reasonably  expected  although  he has been  able to make  use of it. I think  Mr N is due a 
reimbursement  of part of the payments  hes made  under  the agreement.  I think  a 
repayment  of 5% of the payments  made  together  from September  2019  to date together  
with interest  would  be reasonable  to reflect  the lack of working  air conditioning.
I have  also seen  that Mr N has been  caused  unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience  
dealing  with the faulty  car. He has been  frustrated  trying  to get the car fixed,  obtaining  
quotes,  and trying  to get responses  and has found  the car uncomfortable  to use in the 
warm  weather.  I agree  that £175  compensation  is fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances.
So, for the reasons  set out above  Im upholding  Mr Ns complaint.Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn No.1 Limited to do the following:
Liaise with Mr N to arrange for a quotation for the repairs to the cars air conditioning 
system.
If the cost is proportional to the value of the car, then it must pay for repairs to be 
carried ou.t
If it doesnt consider the repairs proportional to the value of the car, it must collect the 
car at no cost to Mr N and end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse 5% of the payments made by Mr N from September 2019 to date to cover 
the loss of performance. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple is to be added to that 
amount from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £175 compensation to Mr N for the distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused due to the faulty goods.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ns. Im asking Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to 
do the following:
Liaise with Mr N to arrange for a quotation for the repairs to the cars air conditioning 
system.
If the cost is proportional to the value of the car, then it must pay for repairs to be 
carried out.
If it doesnt consider the repairs proportional to the value of the car, it must collect the 
car at no cost to Mr N and end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse 5% of the payments made by Mr N from September 2019 to date to cover 
the loss of performance. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple is to be added to that 
amount from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay £175 compensation to Mr N for the distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused due to the faulty goods
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman