DRN-1639441
The complaint Mrs M is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) cancelled three 
cheques unnecessarily, causing her inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs M wrote two cheques which Barclays returned unpaid because it said the signature 
didnt match the one it held on her account. Barclays wrote to Mrs M asking her to visit a 
branch.
After a third cheque was returned for the same reason, Mrs M complained to the Barclays 
branch manager. She didnt receive a response and raised a further complaint with Barclays. 
She thought the signatures wouldve matched the one on record and it would cause her 
inconvenience having to visit a branch and take around an hour each time to sort it out.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It wrote to Mrs M explaining it rejected the 
cheques because it had concerns about the signature and had a duty to protect Mrs Ms 
account. Barclays also said it had tried to call her on all three occasions and sent letters to 
confirm its actions. Mrs M says she only received one of the letters.
Mrs M remains unhappy and would like compensation for the inconvenience caused and the 
cost of visiting the branch. She would also like Barclays to confirm the matter wont arise 
again.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong by rejecting cheques it couldnt verify with Mrs M first.
Mrs M didnt agree. She wanted a comparison of the signatures and for Barclays to admit it 
was wrong to reject the cheques.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs M, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think Mrs M is unhappy about the security procedures in place to protect her and her 
account. The key point of dispute is that she thinks the signature on her cheques matched 
that on record. So, Barclays caused her inconvenience when it asked her to visit a branch to 
resolve the matter.
I understand Mrs M would like me to compare the signatures and decide whether they 
match. Ive looked at the signatures but my opinion on this point isnt what matters here. 
Thats because I must look at whether Barclays followed a fair and reasonable process 
before it rejected the cheques. I think it did.
The cheques were for a significant amount and Barclays identified them as a risk because 
the signatures didnt match that held on the account. Barclays tried to call Mrs M on the 
numbers it had on record for her. The account notes show me that the calls connected to a 
voicemail facility and I have no reason to doubt that Barclays made these unsuccessful 
contact attempts. 
Because Barclays couldnt reach Mrs M by phone, on each occasion it wrote to let her know 
what it had done, why, and what she needed to do to ensure future cheques would be 
processed. This included going into a branch to update the signature on her account. Mrs M 
says she only received one of the letters and I dont doubt what she says. But I can see that 
Barclays sent them to the correct address.
Ive looked at what Barclays did and compared it with the terms and conditions of the 
account. If Barclays isnt sure about the authenticity of a payment it can reject it. But it must 
follow the process set out in the account terms and conditions, as follows,
Unless the law prevents us, well try to contact you as quickly as possible to tell you we 
havent followed an instruction (for example, by calling you or through a message on Online 
Banking), and to explain why. You can also ask us why we have not followed your 
instruction. Well tell you what you can do to correct any errors in the instruction, or to satisfy 
us that the instruction came from you.
So, Im satisfied that Barclays did what it shouldve done when it rejected the cheque 
payments.
Mrs M wrote to a Barclays branch but didnt receive a reply. Barclays provided me with a 
copy of its final response, sent eight days after she made the complaint. It was reasonable 
for Mrs M to expect a response to her letter and it seems that she didnt hear back from the 
branch directly. However, Barclays looked into her complaint and I can see it apologised for 
the problems shed experienced. While Mrs M says she didnt receive that letter, it was 
correctly addressed so I have no reason to doubt it was sent - I understand our service sent 
a copy of the letter to her. I dont think Barclays needs to do any more about this issue.
I can understand that it mustve been frustrating for Mrs M when Barclays cancelled her 
cheques, especially as she knew that shed signed them. However, Barclays couldnt be 
sure, so I think it was reasonable for it to check. Barclays followed the documented process, 
giving Mrs M the information she needed to minimise the chance of it happening again, and 
the process was reasonable. I wont be asking Barclays to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman