The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc suspended the use of his debit card without 
informing him, when it had concerns that the card mayve been compromised.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with HSBC. In September 2019 HSBC identified that Mr Hs 
debit card had potentially been compromised so there was a risk of unauthorised 
transactions being made. 
Mr H spoke to HSBC on 23 September 2019. He says he contacted HSBC because his card 
had been declined. HSBC explained that the card was being blocked for fraud prevention 
and a new one would be needed. Mr H said that he was currently abroad and needed use of 
the card. He says he also explained to HSBC that the recent transactions on the account 
were genuine. As Mr H needed use of his card, HSBC reinstated use of the card for cash 
withdrawals at HSBC cash machines. But it remained blocked for other transactions.
On Mr Hs return from abroad his card was stopped entirely and a replacement provided.    
Mr H has said that this left him without a card for seven days.
Mr H complained to HSBC. He was unhappy it had not notified him the card would be 
stopped before doing so and that hed had to find out due to it being declined. He said the 
restrictions on the card had caused him inconvenience while he was abroad and left him in a 
vulnerable position. He was also unhappy with the inconvenience caused by having to have 
the card replaced. He wanted HSBC to provide details of what had led to the fraud alert and 
apologise for its actions. He also wanted assurances that this would not happen again.
HSBC said it was unable to provide Mr H the information he had requested about what led to 
the card being identified as compromised, as this was confidential. It said its actions were 
intended to protect it and Mr H against potential fraud and it would continue to monitor his 
account the same way it always had. HSBC did offer Mr H £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr H asked our service to look into the complaint. Mr H 
reiterated he felt HSBC shouldve contacted him in advance of taking the action it did and 
that it had caused him inconvenience. An investigator considered the complaint but felt that 
HSBC hadnt acted unfairly, and its actions were ultimately to protect Mr Hs account from 
fraud. As a result, he felt the offer of £50 made previously by HSBC was fair.
Mr H disagreed. He said he had a right to know in advance about HSBCs actions and it 
should have contacted him before restricting the card. He also felt the compromise provided 
was still inconvenient and that overall the inconvenience caused was unnecessary. And he 
questioned if the motive for HSBCs actions truly was protection of the account. As Mr H did 
not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
DRN-1587064What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said he wants details of what led to the alert being raised in relation to his card and 
assurances that this wont happen again. But a businesses fraud prevention procedures, and 
what triggers a review, are by necessity confidential. And I think HSBC has been clear  that 
it believed there was a risk to Mr Hs account. So, I cant reasonably require HSBC to 
provide any additional reasons for what happened. Nor can I reasonably ask it to confirm 
that his account will not be subject to similar checks and restrictions at any point in the 
future. Businesses have the right to determine their own internal processes using their 
commercial discretion. Our service is not a regulator, so it is not our role to interfere with or 
tell a business that it must alter its processes. And a business also has an obligation, 
wherever possible, to protect customers from potential fraud. So in the event that HSBC has 
similar concerns that Mr Hs account may be at risk , I think its reasonable that it would 
again look to follow its internal processes.
Looking at HSBCs decision to suspend use of Mr Hs card, I think it has acted reasonably. 
HSBC has said that it had concerns that Mr Hs card couldve been compromised which 
could leave it, and his account, open to unauthorised use. And its process in that situation is 
to stop the card to prevent this from happening. It is common industry practice for 
businesses to have measures like this in place. So, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly by 
stopping the card. And Ive also seen nothing to suggest this was done for any reason other 
than to ensure account was protected from potential fraud.
When this was discussed with Mr H, HSBC provided a compromise by allowing the card to 
still be used for transactions at HSBC cash machines, as he explained he was in a position 
where he needed the card. Mr H has said he feels this compromise wasnt actually 
reasonable and that it was still very inconvenient for him. I can appreciate Mr Hs preference 
wouldve been that the card was not restricted and that having to change the way he used 
his card temporarily was likely inconvenient. But as Ive said I think HSBC acted reasonably 
by following what it says is its standard procedure of stopping the card where it has concerns 
about security. So, I think it acted fairly in trying to provide a solution for Mr H, when it wasnt 
obliged to do so.
I also dont think it was unreasonable, when Mr H returned from abroad, that HSBC required 
the card to be replaced. Mr H has said this caused additional unnecessary inconvenience.  
But again, given HSBC had concerns about the security of his account, I dont think it has 
acted unreasonably by completing its standard process of replacing the card. The alternative 
to this and the compromise HSBC provided while Mr H was abroad wouldve been that it 
followed its usual procedure without compromise and stopped the card while he was abroad. 
Which obviously wouldve caused Mr H even further inconvenience. So, in the 
circumstances, I think HSBCs actions were fair. 
It isnt in dispute that HSBC did not contact Mr H  he initiated the contact which led to him 
finding out about the card having been suspended. And I certainly think it wouldve been 
better if HSBC had contacted him to let him know what was happening, although I 
appreciate that will not always be possible. But as I dont think its actions overall were 
unreasonable, I think the £50 HSBC has previously offered is a fair way to address this. And 
I dont think I can reasonably require HSBC to do more. So as what I think is a fair offer has 
already been made, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint which I 
think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr H the 
£50 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman