DRN-3138844
The complaint
Mr C complains about a transfer from his ReAssure Limited personal pension to a small self-
administered scheme (SSAS) in 2014. Mr C says ReAssure failed in its responsibilities to 
warn him the transfer could be a scam. 
What happened
Mr C received advice to transfer two personal pensions into a SSAS. And so, he has brought 
two complaints to our service against both ceding schemes. Our rules allow for me to 
investigate the complaints together. I will however, issue separate determinations for each of 
the respondent businesses. This decision focuses on the actions of ReAssure. I will refer to 
the other ceding scheme as Firm B in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only
summarised them below.
Mr C says he had received unregulated advice to transfer two of his personal 
pensions into a newly created SSAS with Rowanmoor.
One of Mr Cs personal pensions was held with ReAssure and so in June 2014, 
ReAssure transferred Mr Cs funds to the SSAS. 
Once in the SSAS Mr C invested his funds into unregulated investments which later 
failed, causing him a financial loss. 
In April 2020 Mr C complained to ReAssure via a professional representative. He 
said ReAssure had failed to see the warning signs that his transfer was potentially a 
scam. He said ReAssure should have contacted him to make him aware of the risks, 
which would have stopped him from going ahead with the transfer.
In their response ReAssure said theyd sent Mr C a letter which clearly set out the 
risks of making a transfer. They said theyd also included a Scorpion leaflet which 
explained the risks of transferring a pension to a third party. They also said it wasnt a 
requirement to have regulated advice as Mr Cs benefits didnt have safeguarded 
rights or guarantees. And it wasnt responsible for the advice Mr C had received. 
Mr C disputes that he was ever sent the Scorpion leaflet as he does not recall ever 
receiving it and it isnt mentioned in ReAssures letters. He also feels ReAssure were 
obliged to contact him as there were several warning signs in Mr Cs circumstances 
at the time that he could potentially be a victim of a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, as he thought it was likely Mr C had 
received the Scorpion leaflet, either from ReAssure or Firm B who also claim to have sent it. 
But even if he hadnt received it, our investigator didnt think the leaflet would have caused 
Mr C to stop the transfer, as his case didnt fit the criteria of a scam.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C, via his representatives, provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr C and ReAssure, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
What were ReAssures responsibilities?
As a regulated firm, ReAssure have to adhere to various principles and rules which are 
contained within the regulators handbook. 
These include, but arent limited to, the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) and the 
principles of business (PRIN).
In summary the most relevant rules for this complaint said that businesses needed to act 
honestly and fairly. They needed to pay regard to the interest of their customers, their 
communication needs and act with due care, skill, and diligence.  
In February 2013 The Pensions Regulator also issued guidance to raise awareness of 
pension liberation activity under the Scorpion campaign. Pension liberation is a term 
generally used when consumers attempt to access their pension early or in unauthorised 
ways.
The campaign introduced scheme administrators to an action pack which highlighted the 
warning signs of pension liberation. If warning signs applied, the pack provided a checklist 
schemes could use to better establish the risk of liberation. The campaign also asked that 
schemes sent a Scorpion leaflet to their members following a transfer request. Which could 
be followed up by a more in-depth leaflet including case studies if required.  
The scorpion leaflets
Mr C disputes that he was sent the Scorpion leaflet when ReAssure wrote to him. ReAssure 
say that they included the leaflet in a letter they sent in March 2014, and again the following 
month. Firm B also claim they sent the scorpion leaflet to Mr C around the same time. 
However, neither ReAssure nor Firm B have been able to provide any compelling evidence 
that it was sent.
While this might come as a disappointment to Mr C, I dont think I need to make a finding on 
whether ReAssure did in fact send the leaflet or not. As I dont think the leaflet, had Mr C 
received and read it, would have alerted him to any potential problems. Ill explain why. 
The first action pack and scorpion campaign documents sent from February 2013 were 
heavily geared towards preventing liberation of a pension. So, it warned people of the 
dangers of accessing a pension before the age of 55.   The leaflet set out four things to look out for. These were;
Being approached out of the blue over the phone or via text message
Pushy advisers or introducers who offer upfront cash incentives
Companies that offer a loan, saving advance or cash back from your pension
Not being informed about the potential tax consequences
Although Mr C was under the age of 55 at the time, I havent seen any evidence that he was 
attempting to access his benefits early or had been told he could do so. Mr Cs motivation for 
making the transfer seems to have been to make an overseas investment which was 
recommended by a third party. However, at that time, the leaflet didnt cover the potential 
dangers of such an investment.
Mr C says he was originally cold called by a resort provider who later introduced him to the 
third party who provided him with unregulated advice. And cold calling is one of the points 
the leaflet highlights for people to watch out for. But the leaflet up until that point, and after, 
was focused on pension liberation  which didnt apply to Mr C. So, I dont think pointing out 
cold calling as a warning sign alone would have given him cause for concern. 
It wasnt until later versions that the Scorpion leaflet contained more general warnings about 
scams. The next version of the leaflet was sent from July 2014, which was after Mr C had 
transferred his pension. So for the reasons Ive given, even if Mr C had received and read 
the Scorpion leaflet, I dont think it would have caused him to take any action. 
The scorpion action pack and ReAssures regulatory obligations. 
Sending the Scorpion leaflet wasnt the only action businesses had to take. The action pack 
asked schemes to consider whether they should contact consumers to warn them about 
pension liberation and delay the transfer if required. And ReAssure had other obligations 
more generally, to act in Mr Cs best interest and provide him with clear and accurate 
information.
The action pack sent to firms in February 2013 was again heavily geared towards pension 
liberation fraud. And Page 8 of the pack set out things to look out for which was entitled 
looking out for liberation fraud. While Mr Cs representatives have pointed out there were 
several factors present in Mr Cs transfer  such as the scheme only recently being set up, 
the involvement of unregulated parties and cold calling  the aim of the action pack, at that 
time, was for schemes to look out for liberation fraud. It was only later this was broadened to 
look more generally at scams. 
The action pack itself wasnt entirely clear if businesses like ReAssure were supposed to 
interrogate every transfer. It asked businesses to contact consumers if they had concerns. 
So, I think its fair to say businesses had to find a balance between delaying every transfer or 
exercising reasonable judgement on transfers which seemed to be at risk of liberation.  
I think in this case ReAssure would have been reassured by the fact the SSAS was being 
provided by Rowanmoor who were a well-established UK provider of SSASs and SIPPs 
(which were regulated by the FCA). Rowanmoor were also acting as a professional trustee 
of Mr Cs SSAS, so had their own obligations regarding the investments being made which 
would have added credibility to this arrangement.
In April 2014, ReAssure sent Mr C a questionnaire following his request to transfer the 
pension he held with them. They say this was part of their due diligence process. In the 
questionnaire, Mr C recorded in his own words that he wanted to transfer his pension as it 
gave him greater investment choice and as a company director, he was able to join as a trustee of the occupational scheme. He also confirmed that he was aware he couldnt access 
his funds until the age of 55 and attached details of the scheme including the deed of 
amendment.
Furthermore ReAssure have sent us further due diligence they say they completed at the 
time. This included confirmation that Mr C was a company director (and had been for several 
years prior to the transfer). So, I think setting up a SSAS in relation to a well-established 
business of which Mr C was the director was unlikely to have raised their concerns. 
Mr Cs pension wasnt being liberated and this type of transfer was relatively common at the 
time. The receiving scheme for the transfer request was a well-established SSAS provider in 
the UK. And Mr Cs answers to the questionnaire satisfied ReAssure that he wasnt at risk of 
pension liberation. So, considering the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
ReAssure needed to do more to establish if Mr Cs pension was likely being liberated. 
The questionnaire ReAssure sent Mr C didnt make him question the suitability of the advice 
hed been given or stop him from transferring his pension from them. But thats not entirely 
surprising as the purpose of the Scorpion campaign wasnt to ask pension providers to 
consider the suitability of any advice consumers had been given. And Mr C had a statutory 
right to transfer his pension. 
Im sorry that Mr C ended up in the position that he did, but I think that was a result of being 
convinced to make an investment that may have been unsuitable. And ReAssure arent 
responsible for that advice.
My final decision
My Final Decision is, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman