DRN-1790927
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Santander UK Plc, trading as Bradford and Bingley (B&B) hasnt 
honoured a counter cheque that was drawn from his account in 2005.  And it wont 
reimburse him the funds that were drawn on that account.
What happened
In 2005, Mr T drew a cheque on one of his accounts with Santander which was made 
payable to his grandson. At that time Mr Ts son hadnt opened a bank account for Mr Ts 
grandson. Mr T said the cheque was forgotten about and wasnt found and presented to a 
bank account until 2017.
Santander wouldnt honour the cheque, and it wouldnt reimburse Mr T the funds that had 
been drawn out in respect of the cheque.
Mr T then brought his complaint to our service. When one of our investigators contacted 
Santander, it told her that Mr T hadnt brought his complaint in time. This was because its 
records showed Mr T was using his accounts up to 2010. He would therefore have been 
aware whether the cheque had debited the account, and it said he could have raised his 
concerns sooner.
Our investigator didnt agree. She said there was no dispute that Mr T had been aware the 
amount had been debited from his account in 2005. His complaint was that the cheque 
wasnt honoured when presented for payment. This only became apparent in 2017.
As Santander didnt consent to us looking into the complaint, it was passed to me for review. 
I issued a decision explaining why I thought the complaint hadnt been made out of time.
The file was passed back to the investigator to look into the merits of Mr Ts complaint. She 
initially wrote to the parties explaining why she didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr T wrote to the investigator explaining why he didnt agree with her assessment. The 
investigator agreed to review the complaint in light of the points Mr T had made. And she 
wrote to S about why the cheque hadnt been honoured.
Santander said it had no way to establish what had happened between the cheque being 
issued in 2005 and being found in 2017. The cheque could have been cancelled or funds 
recredited back to his account.
It also said it had obtained other information about counter cheques. There was a holding 
account for uncashed B&B cheques and having checked this; none of the £1,000 cheques 
matched Mr Ts details. This evidenced in its view, that the cheque wasnt outstanding and 
waiting to be deposited.Santander also said it had been wrong when it originally said there had been no counter 
holding / suspense account to take funds from. It did have details of uncashed cheques. It 
had no other information about stopped cheques.
Having reviewed all of the information again, the investigator issued another view. She 
explained that notwithstanding the information Santander had provided, she wasnt 
persuaded this proved Mr Ts cheque wasnt outstanding. And as it wasnt able to provide 
information about stopped cheques, she couldnt say the cheque was stopped and reissued 
either.
Santander rejected the investigators findings. It said it had no record of the account number 
on the cheque. It thought this meant the account had been closed before the acquisition of 
B&B in 2008. Had the account been open it would have been converted into a Santander 
account along with two of Mr Ts B&B accounts that did migrate to its systems. Upon 
acquisition of B&B, Santander undertook obligations of all active accounts held by 
customers. As it had no record of the account migrating across, it didnt believe the account 
formed part of the acquisition.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed back to me for review. I 
issued a provisional decision on 20 March 2020, explaining why I was upholding the 
complaint in part. Santander responded to my decision and said that it had nothing further to 
add.  No response was received from Mr T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair an easonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further arguments or evidence for me to consider, Im not 
persuaded to change the opinion I gave in my provisional decision. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
This is a difficult case to decide as there is little evidence available from the time Mr T was 
issued with the counter cheque in 2005. B&B became part of Santander in 2008, so 
understandably given the time that has passed since the counter cheque was drawn, there 
are very few records from that time.
But Santander has been able to provide some information about outstanding B&B cheques 
despite it initially telling Mr T and this service that it had no records to provide. So 
unfortunately, Santander gave Mr T incorrect information when he first raised this issue with 
it. And Im satisfied from what Mr T has described to us, that hes found his dialogue with 
Santander to be very frustrating as a result.
Mr T has argued that when the counter cheque was drawn, funds were immediately taken 
out of his account; Santander should have honoured the cheque when it was presented for 
payment. And hes referred to the wording on the back of the cheque which he thinks is in 
essence a promise to pay on presentation of the cheque. So, based on this information, 
although the cheque hadnt been presented for payment until 2017, I can understand Mr Ts 
frustration that the cheque hasnt been honoured when his grandson tried to pay it in to his 
bank account.
However, as Ive summarised above, this isnt the only information that we have. Santander 
has told us that the account number on the cheque isnt for an account that it has records for 
in respect of Mr T. It does have records for two other accounts. So, it thinks this suggests the account on which the cheque was drawn was closed before the merger of Santander and 
B&B in 2008.
Its also told this service that it does have records of a holding account for outstanding 
cheques from B&B accounts that were taken over by it. And there are no records that match 
the timeframe for the counter cheque issued for Mr T.
In light of this information Santander thinks its possible that the cheque may have been 
stopped before it was presented for payment. So, I need to decide if on a balance of 
probabilities, its more likely than not that the cheque was cancelled before it was presented 
for payment. And based on the limited information available to me I cant on balance say it 
wasnt cancelled.
I say this because there is some uncertainty about the account from which the cheque was 
drawn. Santander says it has no record of that account, but it does have records of two other 
accounts for Mr T. So, it seems to me its a distinct possibility that the cheque could have 
been cancelled or reissued before the account was closed.
Also, Santander has said that there is no corresponding cheque to the one issued to Mr T in 
its holding account for outstanding B&B cheques. And it seems to me that if Mr Ts cheque 
hadnt been presented for payment, it would be recorded in that holding account log.
Santander has provided me with a copy of the records for that holding account. And Ive not 
seen any entry that appears to match Mr Ts cheque.
In addition, Ive not seen enough evidence which suggests that the cheque was drawn on an 
account that transferred to Santander. So, I dont think Santander would have any 
responsibility for reimbursing a counter cheque on an account that appears to have been 
closed before it acquired B&B.
As a result, for the reasons Ive outlined above I dont think Santander has done anything 
wrong in not reimbursing him the funds drawn on that cheque.
However, as Ive also set out above, I do think Santander gave Mr T incorrect information 
when he raised his concerns with it. And as Ive explained I think this caused Mr T some 
distress and inconvenience. So, I think it should pay him £150 inconvenience hes been 
caused by it giving him incorrect information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part about 
Santander UK Plc.  If Mr T accepts my decision, Santander  UK Plc should pay Mr T £150 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman