DRN-3994822
The complaint
Mr S complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender gave him loans which he couldnt 
afford to repay.   
 
What happened
Mr S was advanced six loans between December 2015 and January 2022. A summary of his 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
monthly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £250.00 16/12/2015 25/05/2016 5 £130.00
gap in lending 
2 £250.00 09/09/2019 25/02/2020 6 £91.46
3 £300.00 12/03/2020 25/09/2020 6 £153.20
4 £400.00 01/10/2020 05/03/2021 6 £154.44
5 £300.00 15/04/2021 24/09/2021 6 £146.00
6 £500.00 29/01/2022 outstanding 6 £191.33
Mr S has had some problems repaying his final loan, and as of April 2023 an outstanding 
balance remains due, and Mr S is making payments of around £5.02 per month. 
Following Mr Ss complaint Mr Lender wrote to him and explained that loans 1 to 4 were 
affordable based on the information that he had provided. For loans 5 and 6 Mr Lender 
upheld these loans because it says it couldve increased the level of checks that it made 
before granting them and it therefore decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint about these two 
loans. In order to put things right for Mr S, Mr Lender offered to.
refund the interest paid towards loan 5 and pay 8% simple interest on the sum,
collect only the capital amount advanced for loan 6, 
use the refund from loan 5 to offset the balance due for loan 6, 
offer a sustainable repayment plan for Mr S to repay what is owed and 
once the balance has been settled remove loans 1  6 from Mr Ss credit file. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in his assessment, he said he wouldnt 
be looking at loans 5 and 6, because Mr Lender had already made a fair and reasonable 
offer to put things right for Mr S  in line with our approach. 
The adjudicator then considered the complaint about loans 1 to 4 and he thought Mr Lender 
carried out proportionate checks which showed the loans to be affordable for him and there 
wasnt anything in the information Mr Lender gathered which suggested Mr S was having 
financial difficulties. 
Mr S didnt accept the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Mr S also 
provided screen shots of his credit file and copy bank statements. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ss complaint.  
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loan 1For this loan, Mr S told Mr Lender his monthly income was £1,660. Mr S also declared 
monthly outgoings of £1,033 across a number of different categories such as rent, food and 
other regular outgoings. 
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Mr S provided that he had around £630 per 
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £130. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable for Mr S. 
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Mr Lender was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference 
agency. So, while Mr S has provided screen shots of part of his credit file which shows how 
his credit score changed (with the credit reference agency his report was generated from) as 
well as showing missed payments on a particular account from 2017. But as Mr Lender 
carried out a credit search, it was and is entitled to rely on the information it was given so 
while I appreciate that Mr S has provided the information, in this case, I am going to rely on 
what Mr Lender because I know that is what it reacted to. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr S wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
within the three years preceding the loan. In addition, it also knew that Mr S had one active 
payday loan at the time which I do not consider to have been something that Mr Lender 
needed to be concerned about.  
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Mr S was in 
financial difficulties or was having problems managing his existing credit commitments. 
It was early on in the lending relationship  I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have 
relied on the information Mr S provided to it  which showed he had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr S was 
having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him 
for some other reason. 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr S successfully repaid loan 1 and then didnt approach Mr Lender for another loan in over 
three years. This gap in lending is important because the checks had to be proportionate 
and a break in lending of over three years is enough for Mr Lender to have treated Mr Ss 
application afresh  so he could be treated as if he was a new customer. The consequences 
of this are while this was loan 2, it was actually the first loan in a new lending chain. 
The same sort of check was carried out by Mr Lender before it approved this loan and those 
checks, in my view were proportionate to the circumstances. Mr S declared his monthly 
income was £2,259 with monthly outgoings of £1,100. There was still sufficient disposable 
income for Mr Lender to be reasonably confident that Mr S could afford his repayments. A credit check was also carried out before this loan was approved, and the results showed 
much the same as they did for loan one, except this time Mr S didnt have any outstanding 
payday loans. 
This was the start of a new lending chain and therefore once again I think it was entirely 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have approved this loan based on the information that it was 
given by Mr S and what it had received from the credit reference agency. I also dont yet 
think it had reached the point where it wouldve either have thought the loan was 
unsustainable for Mr S or it had yet reached the stage where it needed to verify the 
information he had provided  so it wouldnt have been proportionate for Mr Lender to have 
reviewed his bank statements. 
I am again, not upholding Mr Ss complaint about this loan. 
Loan 3
Mr S repaid loan 2 without any obvious problems  there was one payment deferral (when 
only interest was repaid when the third payment was due) but this deferral on its own  
wouldnt solely be a reason for Mr Lender to have either declined this loan or to have 
prompted it to have carried out further checks. 
For this loan, Mr Lender carried out the same checks as it had done so for loan 2. Mr Ss 
income was declared as being £2,296 with declared outgoings of £1,057. Which left £1,239 
of disposable income each month. Again, this loan repayment looked more than affordable 
with the largest monthly repayment due of just over £153. 
In addition, Mr Lenders credit check results, show the same as they did for loan 2. So, there 
were no insolvencies and there werent any active payday loans. As before, there were no 
signs, in the credit check results which indicated Mr S was in financial difficulties or was 
having problems managing his existing credit commitments. 
This loan looked affordable for Mr S based on what I would consider proportionate checks 
would be for a loan of this value when it was the second loan in a new lending chain. As the 
checks were proportionate, it therefore follows that Mr Lender could rely on the results that 
showed it that Mr S could afford the payments and therefore I am not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint about this loan. 
Loan 4
Loan 3 was repaid without any apparent difficulties  such as late payments. This time, Mr S 
returned for his largest capital loan to date but the largest repayment due for this loan was 
only marginally more than it had been for loan 3. Therefore, taking everything together, I still 
think it was just about reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information it received 
from both Mr S and the credit reference agency. So, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint 
about this loan, and Ive explained why below.  
Mr S declared a slight increase to his income for this loan at £2,357  with declared 
outgoings (again slightly increased) to £1,107 per month. This left £1,250 of disposable 
income each month. Enough for Mr S to afford the largest repayment of this loan. 
Mr Lenders credit report which showed it the exact same information as it did for loan 3 and 
these results, wouldnt have led Mr Lender to have either declined the application or to have 
prompted it to carry out further, more in-depth checks. As I said above, I still think it was just about reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what 
Mr S told it as well as the credit check results. There also wasnt anything else in either the 
way Mr S repaid his previous loans or in the results of the checks Mr Lender carried out to 
suggest that Mr S was having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would 
be unsustainable for him.  
I appreciate, Mr S has provided photos of his bank statements that cover the period he 
borrowed from Mr Lender. But thinking about the number of loans he took, the way they 
were repaid, the gaps between some of the loans and what Mr Lender was told about Mr Ss 
financial position. I am satisfied there were no indications of financial difficulty or anything 
else to suggest that Mr Lenders checks needed to go further such as reviewing Mr Ss bank 
account statements. 
As this is the case, I cant reasonably conclude Mr Lender made an error in this case by not 
reviewing his bank statements. It was reasonable for Mr Lender to proceed with each 
application without sight of his bank statements because that constituted a proportionate 
check. 
Loans 5 and 6
I wont be making a finding about these two loans because in the final response letter Mr 
Lender has made a settlement offer. For loan 5 Mr Lender has agreed to refund any interest 
that has been paid by Mr S (with 8% simple interest), use this refund to reduce the capital 
Mr S owes it for the sixth loan. Finally, it has agreed to remove any adverse information from 
his credit file about all of Mr Ss loans. Which is broadly in line with what we would direct 
Mr Lender to do if we had found in favour of Mr S for these loans.  
Mr Lender has confirmed Mr Ss refund  at the point the final response letter was issued 
amount to £279.07 (with the 8% interest is applied). When applied to the capital only balance 
on loan 6 he wouldve owed £220.93. Of course, if Mr S has made further repayments since 
the final response letter his total outstanding balance will be smaller. 
To be clear, if I had reviewed these two loans, and decided that they ought not to have been 
granted to Mr S  than I wouldve asked Mr Lender to in effect make the loans interest free 
and then update Mr Ss credit file. So, what Mr Lender has already agreed to do is what I 
wouldve likely asked it to do  had no offer been made and I decided the loans ought not to 
have been provided.
It is worth saying here, that Mr Lender has actually offered to remove all the loans from 
Mr Ss credit file once the balance on loan 6 has been repaid, which will involve removing 
any adverse credit file data. 
If an outstanding balance still remains due on loan 6, I will remind Mr Lender of its obligation 
to treat Mr S fairly and with forbearance  if necessary. 
So, the offer put forward by Mr Lender in the final response letter is fair and reasonable to 
resolve this part of his complaint and I am not going to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 1, 2, 3 
and 4.PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve 
the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and it should do what it has agreed to do in the final 
response letter if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman