DRN-4096541
The complaint
Mr J has complained about how Evolution Insurance Company Limited (Evolution) under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr J contacted Evolution to send an engineer to deal with a fault with his boiler. The 
engineer found that a part needed to be replaced. He replaced the part but said if the 
problem reoccurred the expansion vessel might need replacing. A few days later, Mr J 
contacted Evolution as the issue had returned. An engineer visited again and the boiler was 
deemed to be beyond economic repair.
Mr J complained to Evolution. When Evolution replied, it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim because the boiler was beyond economic repair. However, it offered to refund the 
premiums paid to date and half of the excess Mr J had paid for the engineer visits. It also 
offered a manufacturers repair at a reduced cost as a gesture of goodwill.
When Mr J complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Evolution had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it didnt need to do anything 
further.
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr J contacted Evolution to send an engineer, he had to pay a £95 excess. Looking at 
the policy documents, I can see that it clearly states this was payable for each claim, so I 
think that was reasonable. When the engineer visited, he carried out a repair on the boiler 
but wasnt sure it would be successful. A few days later the issue with the boiler happened 
again. At this point, Evolution decided the boiler was beyond economic repair. Mr J has 
disagreed that this was the case, as he said the policy covered repairs up to £1,000. So, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions and why Evolution decided the boiler was beyond 
economic repair.
The policy covered: Repairs or assistance following a boiler emergency or breakdown in 
your home unless your boiler is beyond economic repair. The policy also explained what it 
meant by beyond economic repair. It said:
Boilers have a working life of, usually, 7 to 20 years. Their value reduces over time. If after 
an engineer visit and assessment repair costs are more than the current value of the boiler, 
we wont carry out a repair.
When the engineer visited to assess why the first repair had failed, it was assessed that 
some parts needed to be replaced. The cost of this repair was more than the value of the 
boiler. So, this meant the boiler was beyond economic repair. The policy didnt cover repairs 
where the boiler was beyond economic repair. Im aware that the Mr J has said the policy 
covered repairs up to £1,000, so Evolution could have carried out the repair on that basis. 
But the policy also explained a repair wouldnt be carried out where the boiler was beyond 
economic repair. So, the £1,000 limit wasnt relevant because of the value of the boiler 
compared to the cost of the repair. 
Mr J has also said his boiler had been inspected by Evolution about a month earlier and no 
issues had been found. So, he was concerned that when he had a problem with his boiler 
Evolution then decided it was beyond economic repair. However, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Evolution did anything other than apply the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr J also wanted Evolution to pay him £250 as a contribution towards his new boiler. The 
policy said Evolution would contribute £250 where the new boiler was from its approved 
installer. However, Mr J didnt use Evolutions approved installer, so Im satisfied it didnt 
need to make a contribution.
Im aware Evolution later offered to carry out a repair on the boiler, including arranging for 
the manufacturer to carry out a repair at a reduced cost. However, this was an offer of 
private work, so this wasnt covered by the insurance policy. Im also aware that when the 
manufacturer visited, it couldnt repair the boiler. So, Mr J decided to replace the boiler. Mr J 
was also concerned by the sales process and in the end arranged for another company to fit 
a new boiler. These issues werent covered by the insurance policy, so Im unable to 
comment on them any further as they dont fall within the remit of this service.
So, based on what Ive seen, Evolutions engineer fairly assessed the boiler and it acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy by deciding the boiler was beyond economic 
repair and not continuing to try and repair it. Evolution offered to refund the premiums Mr J 
had paid along with a further £47.50, which was half the claim excess Mr J had paid. In the 
circumstances, I think what Evolution did to resolve this complaint was reasonable and I 
dont require it to do anything in addition to what it already offered.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman