DRN-3677669
The complaint
Miss Js complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted irresponsibly when they lent to her 
and failed to take account of her gambling addiction. 
What happened
Miss J first applied for a loan from Barclays in March 2012.  She subsequently took further 
loans from them in July 2014, March 2015, February 2016, April 2017 and September 2017.  
Barclays records show Miss J repaid the first and last of these from her own resources.  The 
other four loans were repaid with the new borrowing.
In October 2021, Miss J complained to Barclays that theyd lent to her irresponsibly.  She 
said that she was constantly gambling at the time, as well as borrowing on her credit cards 
and from family.
Barclays investigated Miss Js complaint but didnt uphold it.  They said the loans taken in 
2012, 2014 and 2015 were taken out too long ago to be reviewed.  In respect of the later 
loans, Barclays said theyd reviewed Miss Js bank statements from the period and noted 
some low value gambling transactions which werent a concern.  And they said that checks 
would have been carried out at the time the loans were taken.
Miss J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and asked our service to investigate.  Our 
investigator did this and concluded Barclays didnt need to do any more than theyd already 
done to resolve the complaint.  She said lenders have to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks to satisfy themselves the borrower would be able to 
sustain repayments over the life of the loan.  
The investigator said Barclays had done this on each occasion being considered and, in 
each case, Miss J had been left with at least 30% of her monthly income, after shed made 
the loan repayment and paid other essential outgoings.  She thought this was reasonable.
In response to Miss Js comments on her view, the investigator also made enquiries of    
Miss Js credit card provider, which established shed not had a card at the time the loans 
were taken out.  And she confirmed that shed noted from Miss Js bank statements that she 
appeared to manage her account well, only occasionally using her overdraft facility and 
gambling periodically in small amounts.
Miss J didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
Firstly, I agree that I should only be looking at the last three loans.  Businesses only have to 
investigate complaints that have arisen in the previous six years  or, within three years of a 
customer becoming aware of an issue.  Miss J has told us shes had a gambling problem for 
many years.  So Im satisfied she was aware of the issue at the time she borrowed from 
Barclays.
Im sorry Miss Js struggled with gambling.  But, while shes not alone in that, gambling is a 
legitimate leisure activity for many people.  So I cant say, based on that fact alone, that 
Barclays lending to her was unfair.
Rather, as our investigator explained, Id expect Barclays to do checks to see that Miss J 
could make the repayments of the loans she applied for.  Im satisfied from what Ive seen 
that they did this.  They obtained details of her income and essential outgoings, including the 
loan commitment.  This showed that Miss J had at least 30% of her income remaining for 
other items.  I think that was fair.
Miss J has suggested the checks undertaken were insufficient.  Ive thought about this.  
There isnt a set list of checks which all lenders have to carry out in every case.  But, 
because checks should be proportionate, Id expect more checks to be made if Barclays 
initial checks.  Or if they had other information which could inform their lending decision as a 
result of Miss J having other accounts with them.
Miss J has said her bank statements show she was gambling.  Ive looked at the bank 
statements received during the investigation.  In the months before the loan of February 
2016, I can see only payments, made approximately monthly, made to a lottery site.  Theyre 
all for £10 each.  These continue between then and the next loan of April 2017.  There are 
also four bets placed of around £20 each.   
The number of bets increased between April and September 2017 when the next loan was 
taken out, as did the value of the bets placed.  But they were still for no more than £50.  But 
Miss Js account was consistently in credit throughout this period, often by several hundred 
pounds.  So  even if Barclays had interrogated her bank account more than they did, I dont 
think they would have reached a different decision about lending to her.
Nor do I think Barclays would have reached a different decision had they looked at credit 
card information.  Miss J has said that shed spent on credit cards she had with Barclays.  
But Barclays confirmed to our investigator she had no open cards at the time she took the 
loans.  So, again, Im satisfied Barclays would have made the same decision even if those 
additional checks had made.  
Barclays also have a duty to deal sympathetically and supportively with customers who tell 
them theyre in financial difficulties.  But I cant see Miss J made them aware of her problems 
during the life of the loan  only when she made a complaint.  And, as Ive said above, I 
dont think the usage of her bank account or credit card would have alerted them to the 
issue.  So I dont think they need to any more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint about Barclays Bank 
UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman