DRN-4418275
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
In January 2023, Mr and Mrs C had booked to go abroad in March 2023. They took out a 
yearly, multi-trip, travel insurance policy at the end of February 2023  underwritten by 
Astrenska (the policy). 
They cancelled the holiday a day before they were meant to travel due to a close family 
member becoming terminally ill. They were able to get refunds (or partial refunds) in respect 
of some of their bookings but made a claim on the policy for the rest of their out-of-pocket 
expenses. 
Their claim was originally declined by Astrenska relying on an exclusion in the trip disruption 
section of the policy which said that it wouldnt cover for any claim where you bought the 
policy or booked the trip knowing you would have to claim.
Astrenska subsequently declined the claim relying on the general conditions which said: you 
must take all reasonable steps to avoid or minimise any claim.
After Mr and Mrs C queried this reason, Astrenska said the claim was declined because the 
policy didnt provide cover if you didnt seek the advice of a medical professional which 
confirms the necessity to cancel the trip.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained to Astrenska. In its final response letter, it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. Thats because the GP had stated that the close family 
member of Mr and Mrs C was stable until 10 February 2023 and there was an acute 
deterioration after his admission to hospital. And with that in mind we do not believe that it 
would be possible for the treating doctor to confirm that at the time of taking out the policy on 
25th February (2023), there was no substantial likelihood of the condition deteriorating to 
such an extent that cancellation of your trip would be necessary.
Astrenska apologised that the reason for declining the claim hadnt been clearly explained 
previously and agreed that it hadnt provided good service. It said feedback had been 
provided so similar situations could be prevented in future. It offered £30 compensation to Mr 
and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and, ultimately, concluded Astrenska hadnt unfairly declined the claim. 
However, she did recommend it pay Mr and Mrs C further compensation in the sum of £100 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience they experienced because of the way in which 
the claim was handled. 
Astrenska didnt reply. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrekska has an obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
Declining the claim
I know Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed but, for the reasons set out below, Im 
satisfied Astrenska has fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Under the cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy it says cover is 
provided if a trip is cancelled due to the death, injury or illness of an immediate relative. But 
thats subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
The cancellation section also contains important information. That includes:
Health of non-travelling people: You may have to cancel due to the poor health of an 
immediate relative of yours or of your travelling companionFor cover to apply we 
require that a medical practitioner confirms in writing that when you purchased the 
policy or booked the trip:
- The non-insured party was not seriously ill in hospital or receiving palliative 
care and
- There was no reason to expect their state of health to deteriorate so much 
that you would need to cancel.
I havent seen any evidence that a medical practitioner has provided this information in 
writing. 
Without anything more - and given the familys members health at the time Mr and Mrs C 
bought the policy as noted on the medical declaration form completed by the GP - I dont 
think Astrenska has unreasonably declined the claim. Im persuaded its reasonably 
concluded that a medical practitioner is unlikely to be able to confirm that, as at the date of 
buying the policy, there was no reason to expect the family members state of health to 
deteriorate so much that Mr and Mrs C would need to cancel their holiday.
At the time Mr and Mrs C bought the policy, they also had another yearly travel insurance 
policy in place  which was due to end in mid-March 2023. As Astrenska has said, Mr and 
Mrs C are free to contact the insurer of that policy to see whether a claim can be made for 
their out-of-pocket expenses  notwithstanding that the trip was due to end after the expiry of 
that policy.  
The service provided
Astrenska accepts that it shouldve provided Mr and Mrs C with better service. Its said sorry 
and offered £30 compensation. I dont think that fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
Astrenska caused Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C were repeatedly given unclear reasons as to why their claim was cancelled 
and Im satisfied this wasnt made clearer until the final response letter. Even then, in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Astrenska shouldve referred Mr and Mrs C to the appropriate terms of the policy given the confusion caused by the previous reasons put 
forward to decline the claim.
Im satisfied this caused Mr and Mrs C unnecessary upset at an already incredibly difficult 
time for them, when they were mourning the death of a close family relative. It also caused 
them unnecessary inconvenience having to contact Astrenska on many occasions to query 
and challenge the initial reasons put forward to decline the claim  and when not receiving 
call backs as promised. 
Im satisfied £130 compensation more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced because of Astrenkas failings here. 
Putting things right
I direct Astrenska to pay Mr and Mrs C £130 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Astrenska can deduct from this amount the £30 it offered in its final response letter if this has 
already been paid.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman