DRN-3148756
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined her claim on her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C had home insurance with Ageas, which included accidental damage cover. She 
contacted them to make a claim for replacing the screen of her iPad, which had cracked. 
She told them that this damage had happened when shed accidentally dropped the iPad on 
the carpet at home, landing on its corner.  
Ageas arranged to collect the device. But after their engineers had inspected it, Ageas told 
Mrs C theyd decided to repudiate her claim. They said the chassis of the iPad was severely 
bent  and that this didnt match the level of damage theyd expect to see from the incident 
shed reported to them. They deemed her iPad to be beyond economic repair. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs C. He noted that Ageas had relied on the advice 
of an expert, which he thought was a fair thing to do. And, as Ageas terms and conditions 
state that they wont pay for any claim that is in any way fraudulent or exaggerated, he didnt 
think theyd made an incorrect decision or acted unfairly by rejecting Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C strongly disagreed. She said shed told the absolute truth about what had happened 
and that she felt distraught at being called a liar. She thought that, if the chassis had been 
bent, this must have happened in transit. She said the fact that the iPad was still working 
showed the damage wasnt very great  and that all shed asked them to do was to repair 
the screen. She said she paid Ageas for accidental damage cover and feels it was grossly 
unfair of them to refuse her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
Ageas must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement not to unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered 
Ageas assessment of Mrs Cs claim with this in mind.
 
I can see Mrs C feels very strongly that the damage to her iPad should be covered by the 
accidental damage cover shes paid for. Having read the wording of her policy booklet 
carefully, Ive seen that it covers accidental damage to her contents. But the policy contains 
a number of conditions. It says Ageas will not pay for any claim that is in any way fraudulent 
or exaggerated. 
I can understand Mrs Cs distress at the suggestion that shes been anything other than 
completely honest here. Shes told us that she wasnt aware of any bend in the chassis of 
her iPad  and that this must have been caused by the courier who collected it on behalf of 
Ageas. 
Its not my role to decide how the iPad was damaged. Where theres doubt about what 
happened, wed expect the insurer to weigh up all the available information and 
circumstances to decide whether the damage could reasonably be said to have been caused 
by the accident Mrs C described. So, Ive reviewed the information that was available to 
Ageas in this case.
Ageas have provided a copy of the engineers report. The engineer said the iPad had a 
severely bent chassis and cracked screen. Ive seen that he called Mrs C to ask how this 
would have happened  but she had no idea. He noted that Mrs C confirmed shed dropped 
the iPad from waist height onto a carpeted floor. The engineer concluded that he wouldnt 
expect to see a bend in the chassis as a result of this kind of incident. He deemed the iPad 
to be beyond economic repair.
Mrs C says Ageas have been inconsistent in the way theyve described this bend - at one 
point saying it was severe, then describing it as slight, and later saying it was only visible in a 
photograph. Ive looked into this. 
Ageas claim notes show that, as Mrs C was unhappy with their decision, they asked to see 
the engineers photos of the iPad. Ive seen copies of these photos, showing top and side 
views of the device. Ive seen that there is a bend in the iPad, which is more noticeable when 
looking along the edge of the device. As the appearance of the bend depends on the angle 
the iPad is viewed from, I dont find Ageas descriptions of it to be inconsistent. 
Having reviewed all of the evidence in detail, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Ageas to 
rely on the advice of their expert engineer. And that this advice was that the cracked screen 
and bent chassis theyd seen on Mrs Cs iPad wasnt consistent with damage theyd expect 
from dropping it onto the carpet.
I realise how frustrating it must be for Mrs C to hear that her iPad is beyond economic repair, 
when shed simply wanted the screen replaced. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
the experts opinion was incorrect - or that some of the damage may have been caused 
later, in transit. For these reasons, Im unable to say Ageas treated Mrs C unfairly by 
repudiating her claim. 
My final decision
Although I realise that Mrs C will be disappointed with this decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman