DRN-2051587
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a medical 
expenses claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr Ts represented by Mrs T.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr T was injured in a snowboarding accident abroad. He had to be taken 
to hospital by air ambulance. The majority of Mr Ts medical expenses were settled through 
the EHIC scheme, although IPA agreed to cover other associated medical costs.
In March 2019, Mr T was contacted by a solicitor (who Ill call V) acting for the air ambulance 
company, who passed on a bill for an outstanding amount of around €2700. It seemed the 
invoice had previously been sent to an incorrect address. Mr T sent on the bill to IPA for 
payment.
IPA got in touch with the hospital whichd treated Mr T. Following its discussion with the 
hospital, IPA transferred the outstanding amount to the hospital, together with a separate 
amount of around €60.
But in May 2019, V got in touch with Mr T to threaten legal action, as it said the invoice 
hadnt been paid. IPA, V and Mrs T were in regular correspondence about whatd happened 
and court proceedings were initiated by the air ambulance company against Mr T. A court 
date was set for mid-October 2019. It transpired that IPA had wrongly paid the hospital and 
that it shouldve paid the air ambulance company directly.
IPA asked V to deal with things directly as it said Mr T shouldnt have been involved in the 
matter. But V continued to chase Mr T. Ultimately, it arranged for the treating hospital to 
refund the money IPA had wrongly paid to it. IPA then paid the air ambulance company, 
which confirmed on 6 September 2019 that the payment had been received. IPA also 
included interest on the bill and covered Vs fees. The court action was dropped shortly 
before it was due to take place.
Mr T was unhappy with the way IPA had handled his claim and Mrs T complained. She felt 
IPA had made mistakes. Shed also asked - in early September 2019- whether IPA would 
cover the cost of Mr Ts legal representation. As she hadnt had a direct response, Mr T had 
engaged a solicitor. So Mrs T wanted AXA to reimburse Mr Ts legal fees and to recognise 
the impact the matter had had on him.
IPA acknowledged thered been delays in its handling of Mr Ts claim and that it had caused 
him some distress and inconvenience. So it offered Mr T £250 compensation. But it didnt 
agree to cover Mr Ts legal fees. It said these werent covered by the terms of Mr Ts policy.
Mrs T wasnt happy with IPAs offer, so she asked us to look into Mr Ts complaint.
Our investigator thought IPA had responded to Mr Ts complaint fairly. She considered the 
invoice Mr T had sent IPA clearly showed which company payment needed to be made to. 
So she didnt think IPA shouldve paid the treating hospital the medical expenses. But she 
noted that the invoice had already been outstanding for over a year before either Mr T or IPA 
became aware of it and V had already been appointed. So although legal proceedings 
began after IPA had paid the wrong party, she felt the overall delay in settling the invoice 
was the cause of this, rather than the additional delay because of the payment to the 
hospital. 
She also noted that on 6 September 2019, IPA had told Mrs T that the bill had been paid to 
the air ambulance company and that Mr T shouldnt get any further chases for the payment 
or need to go through legal action. So she didnt think Mrs T had needed to appoint a 
solicitor after this point. She was also satisfied that IPA had taken reasonable steps to get V 
to confirm the court action had been stopped. She didnt think IPA could be held responsible 
for the solicitors actions in chasing up Mr T when itd been told to contact it. Overall, she 
didnt think IPA needed to do anything more.
Mrs T disagreed on Mr Ts behalf. She felt that the involvement of the hospital had been a 
mistake on IPAs part and that it shouldve immediately paid the correct recipient. Mr T 
shouldnt have been threatened with legal action while IPA reclaimed the money from the 
treating hospital before paying the right party. IPAs error had a huge impact on Mr Ts life 
and it had no jurisdiction over the court case, only V could call off the action. Although IPA 
had confirmed itd paid the money to the air ambulance company, Mr T hadnt trusted this 
given its earlier mistakes. If Mr T had had to go to court, he wouldve been liable, which 
wouldve had ramifications for his future. She felt the investigator had underestimated the 
stress the matter had caused Mr T. IPA had paid the interest on the air ambulance 
companys invoice and Vs legal fees. So it would be reasonable for it to pay Mr Ts legal 
costs too.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPA has dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr T that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint, 
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs T has said and sent us on his behalf. In making my 
decision though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Theres no dispute that neither Mr T nor IPA were aware of the outstanding air ambulance 
bill until March 2019. Theres also no suggestion that this was either partys fault  Mrs T told 
us the original invoice that had been sent to Mr T was incorrectly addressed. So its clear 
IPA couldnt have paid the invoice prior to Mr T getting in touch with it, as it didnt know it 
existed. Its also clear that by the time IPA learned about the outstanding balance, itd been 
overdue for around a year and that V had already been instructed to act on the air 
ambulance companys behalf.
IPA had already accepted liability for dealing with any expenses associated with the claim. I 
can see from its records that once it became aware of the invoice, it agreed to pay the bill 
very promptly. It carried out some investigations with the hospital, which directed it to pay a 
specific department and IPA transferred the money to the account it was advised to in May 
2019. I think this was a reasonable timeframe to deal with the invoice.However, having considered the information set out on the invoice, I think it shouldve been 
clear to IPA which account details it needed to transfer the outstanding balance to. The IBAN 
number and account name were set out on the invoice. Even taking into account that IPA 
had to transfer a separate sum to the hospital for outstanding costs (which I can see from its 
records), I think it ought to have been clear enough to IPA that it owed separate amounts to 
separate companies. This means Im satisfied it did make a mistake which led to Mr T 
receiving court papers and being chased up for payment by V.
So Ive gone on to consider whether I think this means IPA must pay Mr Ts legal fees. I do 
think that had IPA paid the bill to the right account at the outset, its quite possible that court 
proceedings might not have been initiated. Although its possible that given the balance had 
already been outstanding for over a year, that proceedings may have been started 
regardless. I dont doubt how stressful it mustve been for Mr T when he received court 
papers and was given a date to attend court. 
But Ive also considered that V knew IPA had accepted liability for paying the invoice and 
was taking steps to recover the money and ensure it was sent on to the ambulance 
company. V and IPA were in contact with one another. IPA also mentioned to V that Mr T 
shouldnt have been dragged into the matter. The fact that V continued to chase Mr T and 
that legal action continued to be pursued against him was unfortunate, but it was also 
outside of IPAs control. I can see from IPAs records that during this time period, it was 
taking reasonable steps to recover the money and ensure it was paid to the air ambulance 
company.
Mrs T got in touch with IPA on 4 September 2019 to ask it to confirm that it would pay for Mr 
T to be represented in court. IPA spoke with Mrs T on 6 September 2019 to let her know that 
the bill had been settled and that the air ambulance company had confirmed receipt of the 
funds. While I appreciate Mrs T mayve had concerns about whether this was accurate, I 
dont think she needed to arrange legal representation for Mr T at this point. I think IPA had 
made it sufficiently clear that the matter was closed and that it was trying to reach V to 
confirm the funds had been paid.
IPA was also in touch with V to try and get its confirmation that the legal action had been 
stopped and the matter had been settled. I dont think there was much more it couldve 
reasonably done once the funds had been paid. It wasnt responsible for the further delay in 
V confirming that the money had been received and that court proceedings had been 
stopped.
Taking the above into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct IPA 
to pay Mr Ts legal fees.
As Ive set out above though, I dont doubt that this situation did cause Mr T stress and 
inconvenience. I can appreciate that being chased repeatedly for a debt and being 
threatened with court action wouldve been very worrying for Mr T, given the impact a 
potential county court judgement couldve had on his future. I do think IPA caused around 
three months of unnecessary delays during this period as a result of paying the money to the 
hospital. So I think its right for Mr T to be compensated to recognise the impact these delays 
had on him.
But I also need to bear in mind that Mr T was aware that IPA was dealing with the situation 
and that most of the correspondence between IPA and Mr T was through Mrs T. Ultimately, 
the matter was settled and Mr T didnt go on to face legal action. It wouldnt be reasonable 
for me to award compensation for hypothetical situations, or Mrs Ts time in dealing with the 
claim.So overall, Im satisfied that the £250 IPA has offered Mr T for his trouble and upset is fair 
and reasonable to recognise the impact its error and service had on him. This means Im not 
telling IPA to pay anything more. If IPA hasnt yet paid Mr T the compensation it offered, it 
must now do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that IPA has dealt with Mr Ts 
complaint fairly.
I make no award against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman