DRN-3742492
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K applied for a personal loan with HSBC in May 2016. The loan was for £20,000 
repayable over a term of 60 months at £391.42 per month.
Mr K complained to HSBC about its decision to provide him with the loan. He said it was 
clear from his account usage at the time that the loan wasnt affordable, and that there were 
gambling transactions on his account.
HSBC said the loan was applied for online and the checks carried out were automated. It 
said that Mr K met the lending criteria and his application was successful. It didnt agree that 
it had lent irresponsibly.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ks complaint and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
He reviewed the checks carried out when the loan was taken out and didnt think these 
demonstrated anything to suggest that the loan was going to be unsustainable for Mr K.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ks bank statements for the months preceding the application. 
Overall, he didnt think that HSBC lent to Mr K irresponsibly.
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the adjudicator. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr K, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
This service has an established approach to irresponsible /unaffordable lending complaints 
which can be found on our website. Ive followed this approach when considering Mr Ks 
complaint.
HSBC was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether 
Mr K could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks need to be borrower 
focussed, so giving consideration to whether making repayments in a sustainable way could 
result in difficulties for Mr K.
Theres no set list of checks, but they could take into account a number of things such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amount, Mr Ks borrowing history and his income 
and expenditure.
HSBC feels that the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and that from 
these, it appeared that the loan was affordable for Mr K.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable and 
proportionate based on the size of the loan and its duration. Mr K was looking to borrow a 
relatively large amount over 5 years, so it was a significant commitment.
HSBC relied on its automated checks to determine whether it was prepared to lend to Mr K. 
it also used credit score information. Based on the size of the loan and the term of the 
borrowing and taking into account the benefit of a set monthly payment, I think the checks 
caried out were reasonable and proportionate.
Mr K points out that his spending behaviour prior to the loan application being made should 
be seen as a flag to the loan not being affordable. He feels that it was clear that he was 
spending more than his income. As Ive said, the checks were automated with the loan being 
taken out online, and I think these checks were reasonable. But for completeness, Ive 
considered whether further checks wouldve shown that the loan wasnt affordable.
I dont know what checks HSBC might have done if it had decided to carry out further 
checks, but as it had access to Mr Ks bank statements, I think its reasonable to assume that 
it wouldve reviewed those. But I think that if HSBC had reviewed Mr Ks statements, it 
wouldve concluded that the loan was affordable for Mr K.
There are some gambling transactions on Mr Ks account. But the value of these compared 
to the overall available expenditure was small. I understand that Mr K has said that he used 
some of the loan for the purposes of gambling and I acknowledge his honesty about this, but 
I dont think HSBC wouldve been aware of this at the time.
Overall, taking into account the credit check information, I dont think there as anything to 
indicate that HSBC shouldve carried out further checks. If it had carried out further checks I 
think the information obtained wouldve led it to conclude that the loan was affordable. I dont 
think HSBC acted unfairly by approving the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman