DRN-2862695
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc deducted money from its 
business account without informing it. HSBC deducted the money as it alleged some of the 
coin D had deposited was damaged, but D complains that HSBC hasnt provided proof of 
this nor has it returned the allegedly damaged coin.
What happened
Between December 2018 and January 2020 D deposited a large number of coins into its 
HSBC business account using the self-service automated coin banking machines (coin 
machines).
D later noticed that some of the money deposited had been deducted from its account by 
HSBC and it hadnt been notified. These deductions were made in June, July and August 
2019 and January 2020. In 2019 the deductions were a small proportion of the deposits 
made, but by January 2020 the entirety of the deposits being made by D were later deducted 
from its account. In total D had £5,299.01 removed from its account as rejected coin.
D phoned HSBC to find out what had happened and was told the coins had been destroyed.
D hired a solicitor who contacted HSBC for further information about why this had happened. 
HSBC told D that it had been told the coins were garbled - garbled coins are damaged or 
mutilated coins. HSBC explained it doesnt own the coin machines within its branches, 
another company V does. The coins collected by these coin machines are then sent off to V 
for processing. V examines the coins, and where they are found to be garbled, they are 
considered fraudulent by V and so sent to The Royal Mint to be destroyed. HSBC said this is 
what had happened with Ds coin.
D remained unhappy and brought its complaint to our service. It noted that it had not been 
provided with proof the coins were garbled or that the coins had been sent to The Royal Mint 
for destruction. It said HSBC should either evidence its claims, return the coins to D or pay D 
the value of the coins.
Our investigator looked into things and was ultimately of the opinion that HSBC hadnt acted 
fairly. So, they asked HSBC to pay D the £5,299.01 it had deducted from Ds account plus 
8% simple interest from the date the money was deducted until the date it is paid to D. 
He also suggested HSBC pay any costs D had incurred, including solicitors costs, as well as 
£250 for the inconvenience caused.
HSBC didnt agree. It told our service its policy is not to accept garbled coins. It provided 
testimony from some of its staff who had concerns over the coin theyd witness Ds director 
attempting to pay into the coin machines.
So, the matters been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a slightly different outcome to the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with HSBC and D so both parties had the
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings
were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether HSBC has acted reasonably in the circumstances.
And having carefully considered the evidence provided so far, Im not persuaded that it has 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to be clear that although V and HSBC staff had concerns over the coin D
deposited, HSBC has told our service the coin in question was damaged. It hasnt suggested
the coin was counterfeit or in anyway fraudulent.
HSBC has told our service that from October 2019, The Royal Mint changed its policy which
means it will not offer face value for damaged coin, only scrap value. So, HSBCs policy is
not to accept garbled coin. And this seems reasonable in the circumstances.
But HSBC has said that its coin machines, which are not foolproof, accepted some of the
coin paid in when they shouldnt have. V later identified garbled coin whilst sorting.
And HSBC believe Ds deposits were the source of the garbled coin. So, it later deducted the
face value of the coin from Ds account.
I have seen no policy or guidance from HSBC showing that deducting the face value of the
coin from the relevant bank account is standard procedure. That being said, I wouldnt
necessarily think this was unreasonable if HSBC could demonstrate there was garbled coin
and that the garbled coin in question was deposited by D. But Im not persuaded that it can.
Firstly, I have limited evidence that the coin in question was garbled. HSBC has provided
internal emails from January 2020 which reference that £1,814 worth of £1 coins were
considered garbled by V  a picture of the garbled coins was included. I have also seen
internal screenshots confirming these figures were charged back to HSBC by V.
As well as these communications, I have accounts from three of HSBCs branch staff who
said they witnessed Ds director depositing coins using the coin machines. All three had
concerns over the quality of the coin.
One staff member recalled the coins were discoloured and some were in bad condition 
they said Ds director told them the coins had come from a charity wishing well. Another staff
member recalled many of Ds coins being rejected by the coin machine or getting stuck.
A third said they were told the coins were wet and oily because theyd been recovered from
a charity wishing well. The same staff member said eight out of ten coins D paid in were
rejected, and the director left with much of their coin undeposited. At the end of that day the 
HSBC staff member found £58 worth of coin in the coin machines purge tray which they
then deposited for D and sent off separately to V for processing. They advised V later
rejected £40.83 of that coin as garbled.
These accounts do add weight to HSBCs suggestion there was something wrong with the
coin D was attempting to pay in. But this isnt the same as demonstrating the coin D did pay
in was garbled. Most of the coin that was sent to V (with the exception of the purge tray
submission) was accepted by the coin machines, machines that are designed to try to
identify problematic coin, including garbled coin. This is not to suggest theyre foolproof.
But the reason HSBCs staff had concerns is because the coin machines were rejecting coin
 which suggests the coin machines were doing their job. So, the staff accounts alone arent
enough to persuade me the accepted coin was also problematic.Ultimately, it was Vs examination of the coins that determined they were garbled. Yet I have
seen no evidence, reports or emails from V directly. HSBC also hasnt provided any policy or
explanation of what further testing the coins undergo with V that enables it to establish coins
are garbled where the branch coin machines cannot. The picture of coins thats been shared
with me also doesnt appear to show visible damage, although Id note that its not of
particularly good quality. In addition, the evidence HSBC has provided all seems to refer to
Ds January 2020 deposits, which are only a portion of the coin it then deducted from Ds
account. So even if I were to have been persuaded there was garbled coin in the accepted
coin machine deposits in January 2020, the evidence provided tells me nothing about the
coin deposited in other months which HSBC has then deducted from Ds account.
HSBC also appears to have rejected garbled coin from D prior to when it said The Royal
Mint changed its policy and stopped accepting garbled coin. So, Ive seen no evidence from
HSBC to persuade me that the deductions made in June, July and August 2019 were fair.
HSBC also seems to have presumed that D alone is responsible for all of the garbled coin in
any of the coin collections where D had made a deposit. This is despite the fact these
collections would have contained deposits from other customers whod used the coin
machine. I appreciate it will be practically impossible for HSBC to trace the precise origin of
coin where multiple customers have made deposits into a coin machine. And in light of the
testimony of staff and the size of the deposits D made, its possible HSBCs conclusion that
its most likely the garbled coin came from D could be reasonable. But without more
information on how regularly V is returning garbled coin to HSBC and at what amounts,
without something to suggest Ds involvement is creating particularly abnormal rejected coin
figures, I cant say it was. Id also note that HSBC kept 100% of the last few deposits D
made and yet its own staff members test of the rejected purge tray (which could be entirely
attributed to D), found that not all of the deposited coin was garbled.
Ultimately, where HSBC is deducting money from its customers account on the basis
deposits were not legal tender, I would expect it to have evidence to demonstrate the coin in
question was garbled. But HSBC hasnt been able to provide anything more than
circumstantial evidence.
As an aside, Id note that HSBC has also said The Royal Mint offers scrap value for the
garbled coin since October 2019. But I cannot see that it has credited D with the scrap value
for the coin it says D deposited  which I also think is unfair.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded it was reasonable for HSBC to make any
deductions from Ds account. So, I agree with our investigator that it ought to refund D the
£5,299.01 and pay 8% simple interest on the various deductions from the date the money
was deducted until the date it is paid to D  it should calculate this on each deduction rather 
than the sum as a whole. I also agree with our investigator that HSBC should pay D £250 for
the inconvenience caused by its error.
That being said, I dont intend to ask HSBC to pay Ds costs. The only costs Ive been made
aware of are solicitors fees. D chose to appoint a solicitor in order to raise its complaint with
HSBC but there was no requirement on it to do so. D was able to raise a complaint on its
own behalf. So, I dont think HSBC can be fairly asked to reimburse these costs as Im not
persuaded these were an unavoidable consequence of HSBCs mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D was happy with the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. HSBC didnt add 
anything further either. 
So, having carefully considered all the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay D £5,299.01 and pay 8% simple interest on the various deductions it made from 
the date the money was deducted until the date it is paid to D  it should calculate 
this on each deduction rather than the sum as a whole.
Pay D £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman