DRN-3205107
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered then in 
settlement of a claim on their motor insurance policy following the theft of their van. 
What happened
Mr Ss van was stolen and UKI offered him its market value in settlement of his claim. Mr S 
was unhappy with this as he said the van had many modifications and optional extras fitted 
and he couldnt replace the van with UKIs offer. Mr S hadnt told UKI about the modifications 
or extras and he wasnt able to produce receipts for them. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
hadnt disclosed the modifications or extras to UKI when he took out and renewed the policy. 
So he thought it was reasonable for UKI to ask for receipts to validate his claim. Without 
these, he thought UKI had reasonably paid Mr S the vans market value. He thought it had 
established this correctly in keeping with our approach. 
Mr S replied that the receipts were in the stolen van. He said he couldnt replace his van with 
one in the same almost new condition for UKIs offer. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect the loss of the van has had on Mr S and Mrs S. I can 
understand their frustration and disappointment that UKI hasnt offered them enough to 
replace the van with one similar to theirs. Mr S said this would be about £20,000 whilst UKI 
offered them £13,731 including VAT in settlement of their claim. 
Mr S said UKI told him he was insured for up to £85,000. Ive seen some policies where the 
insured and the insurer agree a value for the vehicle. But this isnt the case with Mr S. His 
policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. And the policy doesnt 
provide for a replacement van. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr S provided copies of adverts for vans which he said were comparable. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Ive looked at the valuations UKI and our investigator made on Mr Ss van. I can see that 
they checked the guides we use for vans of the same make, model, age, mileage and 
condition as Mr Ss van. 
Mr S said the van had been modified. But in the call where he took out the policy he didnt 
disclose this to UKI. And I cant see that it was mentioned at renewal. If he had, then the 
cover he was provided may have been different or refused. Mr S isnt now able to provide 
receipts as evidence for these modifications. This is unfortunate. But without these, Im 
satisfied that it would be unfair to ask UKI to consider them in its valuation. 
Of the two valuations UKI found for Mr Ss van, one was very low. So, in keeping with our 
approach, it discounted it. And so it offered Mr S the higher valuation it found. This didnt 
make any deductions for condition and it allowed for the vans low mileage. 
So Im satisfied that UKI made Mr S a fair and reasonable offer for the market value of his 
van in settlement of his claim. I say this because I think this was made correctly according to 
our approach and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And so I dont require 
UKI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman