DRN-4085818
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle), trading as Oodle Car 
Finance, irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Oodle.  Mr M was required to make two payments of £502.08 followed by 58 monthly 
repayments of £452.08. The total repayable under the agreement was £27,224.80.
Unfortunately Mr Ms account fell into arrears. By the time he made his complaint to Oodle 
he had arrears of around £1,400. 
Mr M says that Oodle didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as he was already in financial difficulty 
with other borrowing. Oodle didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment 
which included checking with a credit reference agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Oodle didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
As Mr M didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I see Oodle relied on information Mr M provided in his 
application as well as running several credit checks. Mr M told Oodle he had a net monthly 
income of around £4,500, which I understand was from his self-employed occupation. It also 
completed another credit check to understand how Mr M had managed his existing and 
previous financial arrangements. Ive seen a summary of this check that shows he had two 
ongoing loans on which he paid just under £800 each month. His recent available credit 
history didnt show any defaulting on credit or adverse markings on his credit file. 
Using statistical data, Oodle then verified Mr Ms income and based on that, calculated that 
Mr M would have enough disposable income to meet his payments under the agreement. 
Oodle didnt ask Mr M for actual details of their income prior to lending which is something I 
would have expected given that hed told Oodle he was self-employed and working in an 
industry known for irregular income streams. Without any understanding of what Mr M was 
earning, I dont think it was possible for Oodle to make a fair assessment of his ability to 
afford the repayments without undue difficulty. And Ive kept in mind that Mr M was being 
required to pay a substantial amount of money over a five year period when he would need 
to have financial stability. I therefore dont think Oodle did enough to show it had completed 
proportionate checks at the time. 
Mr M also provided us with some selected screenshots from his credit report. These show  
he had other accounts with outstanding credit still owing at around the time he applied for 
the finance. I agree with our adjudicator that from what weve seen, this wasnt shown in the 
summary of the credit report that Oodle carried out at the time. Mr M also told us about 
having had a CCJ registered against him in 2017 which also doesnt show up in the credit 
report summary. So from the details Ive seen about Oodles credit check, I cant say it 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Ive gone on to consider what Oodle would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr M to provide us with 
evidence of his financial circumstances at the time the agreement was taken out. However, 
he hasnt given us enough information to have a fuller picture of and so fairly determine what 
better proportionate checks would likely have shown Oodle about Mr Ms financial situation 
at the time he was applying for the finance. For example, I would expect this to provide 
details about Mr Ms income flow and his monthly committed expenditure.  
As Mr M hasnt been able to demonstrate the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Oodle ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Oodle acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
I realise that Mr M will be disappointed by this finding and I am sorry to have to disappoint 
him on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman