DRN-3031622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank (AIB) didnt do 
enough to help them recover their money when they were the victims of an online 
investment scam.
The payments all came from a joint account, but for ease of reading and as hes done most 
of the correspondence to date, Ill mainly only refer to Mr M where I mean both Mr and 
Mrs M. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. Between September 2017 and 
May 2018 Mr M made a series of debit card payments to a merchant Ill refer to as X. At the 
time he believed he was crediting an investment account that X had said would help him 
recover his losses that stemmed from a previous investment. 
The payments to X totalled around £17,000. There was also a further payment to another 
merchant E which took place in July 2018 for £3,841.48 which Mr M alleged he hadnt 
authorised. 
In October 2018 Mr M contacted AIB. He made his allegation that the payment to E hadnt 
been authorised and also asked that a chargeback be raised in relation to the payments to X 
on the basis that the service hadnt been provided. The crux of his argument was that X 
couldnt have provided the trading services they purported to because they werent regulated 
and authorised to do so. 
Ultimately AIB declined to raise a chargeback or make any refund. Mr M complained and 
when AIB maintained their position the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary she 
concluded that AIB had acted fairly when not raising a chargeback, but she accepted that 
the payment to E was unauthorised and recommended that this should be refunded along 
with 8% simple interest. AIB accepted this outcome but Mr M disagrees. He believes he 
should be refunded all the outstanding payments and has asked for an ombudsman to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept our Investigators recommendation with regard to the payment to E, I 
wont comment on that in detail beyond making the award in this decision. Instead, Ill focus 
on the area still to be resolved, the payments to X. 
I dont think AIB ought to have done more than they did in relation to the payments to X at 
the time they were made. Ive looked at Mr Ms account history and I dont think payments of 
those amounts were unusual or suspicious in relation to the usual account activity. Banks do 
have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. 
But there is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing 
customers free access to their money. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for AIB to process all the payments to X unchallenged. 
The only possible route to recovering the debit card payments is therefore the chargeback 
scheme. AIB are bound by the card scheme providers (Visa in this case) rules. There is no 
right to a chargeback, but Id generally consider it to be good practice that a chargeback is 
raised if it has a reasonable chance of succeeding. 
I can understand the point that Mr M is making when saying that X couldnt have provided 
the services they purported to due to them not being regulated to do so. Hes also said that 
the trading that took place was nothing more than a simulation when in effect his money 
was just kept by X. But in saying this, Mr M is in effect alleging that X were operating a scam 
and that this was all a trick to misappropriate his funds. Its not that services werent provided 
that should have been, its that the entire operation was fraudulent. Whilst I have natural 
sympathy for Mr M being a victim in this way, being the victim of a scam isnt something that 
the chargeback scheme provides resolution for. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant chargeback options under the Visa rules. And the only 
one that I think potentially might have succeeded would be if Mr M could evidence that X had 
refused to allow him to withdraw available funds from his account with them. But there are 
very specific evidential requirements for this. And by Mr Ms own testimony, by the time he 
raised this with AIB, his account balance was zero. Mr M said in response to our Investigator 
that he had provided plenty of evidence to show the request for a withdrawal. Ive considered 
this but I dont think anything Mr M has provided would have met the requirements of the 
chargeback scheme. There is nothing to show that he had an available balance to withdraw 
at the relevant time. And for clarity, even if such evidence had been presented, it would only 
have potentially resulted in recovery of that balance, not all the payments made. 
As I dont think there was an option for a chargeback that had a reasonable chance of 
succeeding, I think AIBs decision not to pursue this was a fair and reasonable exercise of 
their discretion  they can only operate within the chargeback schemes rules. 
During the time this complaint has been with our service, Mr M also mentioned payments to 
another merchant B who he believes to be one and the same as X. But as these payments 
werent disputed with AIB, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on them. There 
were also two payments included on Mr Ms initial chargeback request to AIB that he hasnt 
evidenced have come from his account with them. As such there wouldnt have been an 
option to dispute payments that werent made on his AIB debit card or that didnt come from 
this account.
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr M lost money in this way. But as I dont think AIB 
reasonably ought to have prevented this or that they should have done more in relation to a 
chargeback, Im not going to tell them to do more than theyve already agreed to to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank must pay Mr and Mrs M £3,841.48. They must add to this amount 8% simple interest between the date 
of debit and the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman