DRN-2439904
The complaint
Ms P complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have processed her claim 
through her home insurance as an escape of water claim. Ms P says the claim should be for 
trace and access.
All references to RSA also include their agents
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms P has strong views about what has happened, and she has provided 
several submissions which I want to assure her Ive read and considered carefully. But I 
hope Ms P wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms P, and 
by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In the trace and access section of what is covered under the policy, RSA says:
Finding a leak: if its necessary to remove and replace any part of your buildings to 
find the source of a water or oil leak from a heating or water system, well pay the 
cost.
The general purpose of trace and access sections of the policy is normally to locate 
and repair the source of the leak.  And from looking at this section of the policy, it 
doesnt say it will cover the cost to repair any damage. But I can see under a 
separate section RSA say they will cover accidental damage
Ive looked at the scopes of work and quotes provided by Ms P for work carried out, 
or intended to be carried out at her property. I can see this has been amended 
slightly, so I want to provide reassurance that Ive considered all of these. But from 
looking at everything provided, I can see these include costs not covered under trace 
and access  such as re-plastering the whole ceiling. And they all detail works 
resulting from water damage
Ms P said she wanted to claim for trace and access during an initial call to RSA. 
But Ms P was told during the call of the excesses for both trace and access - and 
claims relating to an escape of water. So, while I appreciate Ms Ps comments this 
claim was intended to be for trace and access, what shes submitted to the business 
isnt covered under this section of the policy and the amount of work claimed for is 
more suited to an escape of water claim. Therefore, Im not persuaded RSA are 
obviously wrong to conclude it should be treated as such
Ms P has pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by our service from 
cases involving facts Ms P feels are similar. We arent bound by our previous 
decisions and we consider each case on its own individual facts, considering what 
we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. However, the decisions 
referenced by Ms P concern claims being declined, not a dispute over what insured 
event is being claimed for so Im not persuaded this is similar. So, this doesnt 
change what I think
So these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman