DRN-2574394
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) offered to settle his claim for a lost 
diamond.
What happened
Mr S had home insurance, with Lloyds which covered buildings, contents, valuables and 
personal possessions. He made a claim under the policy for a diamond which had been lost 
from his wifes ring. Lloyds accepted the claim and made an offer to settle either by 
replacing the stone using its preferred supplier, or in cash to the equivalent value of what it 
would cost it to replace.
Mr S was unhappy that Lloyds would only repair the ring using its supplier because he had 
his own preferred jeweller. He complained that Lloyds hadnt provided any reassurance that 
its supplier would replace the stone with one of equal quality. And, as it was only offering him 
the cash equivalent of its own cost to repair, he wouldnt be able to have the repair done 
himself without incurring further cost. Overall, Mr S was unhappy that Lloyds didnt seem to 
be covering the value of the lost diamond adequately, despite him having the ring as a 
specified item in the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that the settlement Lloyds offered 
was in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He thought that Lloyds hadnt handled the claim properly, and it hadnt 
offered him any reassurance that a replacement stone would indemnify him for his loss.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Lloyds accepted the claim, so the issue of dispute is the settlement offer and the 
circumstances around that. 
Mr S complained that Lloyds didnt inspect the ring or give any information about the quality 
of stone it would repair the ring with. He thought its preferred supplier would be biased 
because it had seen the quotes he got from local jewellers and simply applied a discounted 
value to the lower of the two quotes. Mr S couldnt see why Lloyds didnt pay the amount he 
insured the ring for. Ill address this point first.
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and schedule and I can see that the ring is listed as a specified 
valuable, insured for over £4000. The policy has a limit of £3000 for a single item unless 
specified. By specifying the ring and its value in the schedule, cover is available to Mr S for 
the higher value, less any excess. So, I can understand why Mr S questioned Lloyds 
decision to offer less than the insured amount.
The policy states:
If you have specified an item, the most your insurer will pay is the sum insured for that item 
as shown on your Policy Schedule.
Under the General Conditions, which are applicable to the whole of the insurance policy, the 
sum insured should be for, the full costs of replacement as newto reflect the current 
market value.
So, the specified value is the amount that Lloyds would pay if the ring was lost or stolen, or 
the maximum it would pay for a repair. The largest diamond was lost but Mr S still had the 
ring with several smaller diamonds intact. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable that 
Lloyds was only prepared to cover the cost of repair in line with the policy terms, rather than 
the full market value to replace the ring.
Moving on to the settlement offers, the policy states:
B. Conditions that apply to Section 3  Valuables and Personal Belongings
How your claim service deal with your claim
Your insurer will at their option repair, replace or pay for any article covered under Section 3 
 Valuables and Personal Belongings. 
Your insurer can settle your claim by repairing, replacing, rebuilding or by payment. Where 
your insurer can offer repair or replacement via our preferred supplier but agree a cash 
settlement the payment will not exceed the discounted repair or replacement price your 
insurer would pay.
Looking at this term, its clear that Lloyds made its settlement offers in line with the policy  
to repair the ring (replace the stone) or a cash sum equal to its cost to repair. Mr S was 
unhappy with the offer of repair, so Lloyds paid the cash settlement figure less its discount, 
which is, again, in line with the terms of the policy.
Ive thought carefully about why Mr S declined the offer to repair and its here that I think 
Lloyds couldve done more. Lloyds appointed a jeweller to repair the ring, but it seems that 
Mr S wasnt aware of that until the jeweller contacted him to arrange collection. I can 
understand why he would be reluctant to hand over the ring without being made aware of the 
arrangement, although the claims process does state:
For Contents or valuables and personal belongings claims, if an authorised repairer or 
supplier is used:
your claims service will arrange for someone to repair or replace the lost or damaged 
items,
you can be assured of the standard of work.
Nevertheless, I think it wouldve been helpful if this was made clear to Mr S at the time of the 
event.
At this point, Lloyds agreed to look at quotes Mr S provided, and its appointed jeweller 
confirmed it could replace the stone at a value of £3350, which was equal to Mr Ss lowest 
quote. But Mr S didnt think the replacement would be of equal quality and he thought that 
there was some bias due to its appointment by Lloyds and visibility of his preferred 
jewellers quotes.
The jeweller Lloyds appointed described the replacement stone as a, round diamond to fit 
into the ring. The quotes Mr S provided gave details about size and clarity of the stone. 
While I have no reason to doubt that Lloyds wouldve replaced the diamond with one of 
equal quality, I dont think it did enough to reassure Mr S of that. He repeatedly told Lloyds about his concerns, and I can understand why - the ring also had sentimental value. But I 
havent seen anything to show that Lloyds provided a more detailed description of the repair 
it would carry out.
I think this matter couldve been avoided if Lloyds had arranged to inspect the ring at a time 
convenient for Mr S and provided some detail about the repair it would carry out. 
As it stands, Mr S has since had the ring repaired and Lloyds paid the discounted cash 
settlement value. I think it was fair for Lloyds to pay the discounted settlement because that 
is what it wouldve cost it to complete the repair and its in line with the policy terms. And 
while I think Lloyds couldve done more to reassure Mr S about the quality of the repair, I 
cant see any clear evidence of a reason for him to doubt the standard of work it proposed.
In summary, I think Lloyds offered to settle the claim fairly, and in line with the policy, but I 
think it couldve done more to respond to Mr Ss concerns about the planned repair of the 
ring. In recognition of that, I think its reasonable that Lloyds pays Mr S compensation of 
£100 by way of apology. I realise that Mr S will be disappointed that Im not asking Lloyds to 
cover the full cost of repair, but I must make it clear that the compensation is to address the 
shortfall in service  it is not intended to contribute to the cash settlement because Im 
satisfied that Lloyds made a fair offer in line with the policy.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint in part, and I am minded to require Society of 
Lloyds to:
pay Mr S £100 compensation by way of apology for the shortfall in service when he 
raised concerns about the quality of repair it offered.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds didnt provide any further comment about Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S responded to say that while it wasnt the settlement hed hoped for, he thought the 
decision recognised the principle behind his complaint and he considered it a moral 
vindication.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked again at Mr Ss complaint. As Lloyds had nothing to add, and Mr S accepted the 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision 
is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr Ss 
complaint. Society of Lloyds must:
pay Mr S £100 compensation by way of apology for the shortfall in service when he 
raised concerns about the quality of repair it offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman