DRN-3503885
The complaint
Mr O and Ms M complain about the handling of their theft claim by their home insurer Zurich 
Insurance PLC and they want their policy to be reinstated and their claim paid. I have only 
referred to Mr O in this decision.
What happened
Mr O said he became aware of a theft of jewellery at his home in December 2019 and he 
reported this to the police. He said the police investigated and he claimed to Zurich with a list 
of stolen items. He said he sent copies of receipts, certificates and photographs at Zurichs 
request to its claims handlers.
A meeting between Mr O and the claims handlers took place in January 2020 and he gave a 
statement of the events surrounding the theft. He said other items might be missing but he 
didnt have any other receipts. Mr O said the claims handlers asked for further information 
on several occasions which he provided, but he wasnt told when the claim would be settled.
The claims handlers acknowledged Mr Os emails, but there were no settlement proposals 
and in May 2020 he complained. Zurich said its underwriter had needed the information it 
had requested, and it hadnt mishandled the claim. Zurich said Mr O had misrepresented the 
value of the items insured and included a valuation from the claims handler of the stolen 
items at £96,141 and valued items bought abroad at a total of £38,194. 
Mr O responded that when the policy started, he wasnt asked for a valuation or a list of the 
items insured. He said the policy wasnt renewed by Zurich in July 2020, but he wasnt 
informed about this until he called Zurich. 
Zurich wrote to Mr O in August 2020 stating that the policy would be voided from the date of 
renewal in July 2014 and it would refund all premiums from then as it considered that Mr O 
had misrepresented his items. Zurich said that the items purchased prior to the policy 
commencing cost about £17,500 and none exceeded the single article limit of £2,500. Mr O 
said Zurich hadnt used the valuation of the items but rather purchase amounts, and at every 
other point have decided to use the claims handlers valuation to base their decision.
Mr O was unhappy with Zurichs response saying it attacked their integrity and prevented 
them from obtaining alternative cover. He referred his complaint including the decline of his 
claim and voidance of their policy to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr O hadnt taken 
reasonable care not to misrepresent their valuables when renewing his policy and these 
exceeded the valuables policy limit. He said it was reasonable of Zurich to avoid the policy 
and decline the claim and he thought its claim handling was reasonable. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about Mr Os loss of valuable items. Ive looked carefully at the terms of 
Mr Os policy and the questions he was asked when he bought the policy to see if Zurich has 
treated his claim fairly. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed the policy from July 2014 onwards. It said that Mr O didnt tell Zurich at renewal that 
the contents of his home and the cost of replacing the valuables exceeded the policy limit for 
valuables.
Ive looked at the questions asked of Mr O at the start of the policy and at renewal and the 
information provided to him by Zurich. The policy document sets out that contents are 
insured for up to £50,000, including a valuables limit of £20,000 and a valuables single 
article limit of £2,500.
At each renewal Zurich sent Mr O the policy documentation which included information that 
explained that if the cost of replacing the contents as new, exceeded the amount shown in 
the schedule, Mr O should tell Zurich. The first page of each renewal document states that 
policyholders must take reasonable care to ensure all information provided is complete and 
accurate and must notify any changes immediately. It states that incorrect information may 
result in an increased premium or claims not being paid or invalid insurance. 
I think its clear Mr O needed to contact Zurich if the valuables exceeded the £20,000 limit 
from the policy schedule. Unfortunately, Mr O didnt do this even though hed bought items 
which increased the value above the valuables limit of the policy before the policy renewed 
in July 2014. This means that from July 2014 onwards Mr O was under-insured, and I agree 
with Zurich this was because he failed to take reasonable care to avoid a misrepresentation.
I have then moved on to considering whether the misrepresentation made any difference to 
how Zurich would have insured Mr O. In other words, was the misrepresentation a 
qualifying one. This depends on whether Zurich would have acted differently had it known 
the correct information about Mr Os valuables. 
Zurich has provided its underwriting guidance that shows that if Mr O had told it he had over 
£20,000 in valuables, it wouldnt have been able to continue the cover under that policy. So, 
if Mr O had updated Zurich with the amount of valuables he had in July 2014 Zurich wouldnt 
have renewed the policy. And so Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation.Zurich said Mr Os misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. Ive 
thought about whether this and I dont think Mr O knowingly withheld the information from 
Zurich. I also dont think he knew that the information would be relevant to Zurichs decision-
making. On that basis, I agree the misrepresentation was careless.
As Im satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation was careless, Ive looked at the actions Zurich can 
take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances the law allows an insurer to avoid a 
policy  treat it as if it never existed  and not pay a claim as theres no cover to invoke. An 
insurer must also refund all premiums back to the point of the misrepresentation. Zurich has 
done these things and so Ive concluded that it has treated Mr O and Ms M fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr O said he didnt think the correct exchange rates have been used by Zurichs claims 
handlers in calculating the value of his overseas purchases. But he hasnt provided any 
further information about this, such as the valuation by Customs and Excise of the items for 
import duty purposes. The exchange rates used are in line with those at the time Mr O 
bought the items. Mr O has also noted that Zurich used estimates of the current value of the 
items as well as the purchase price. I dont think its unreasonable for Zurich to request a 
valuation of the items, as the policy covers the cost of replacing the items.
Ive considered Zurichs handling of Mr Os claim and the time taken. I can see that a lot of 
information was requested from various parties and this would have been inconvenient to Mr 
O. In May 2020 Zurich was awaiting information from the alarm company. Given the nature 
of the theft, and the value of the items that were taken, I dont think Zurichs investigations 
were unreasonable and havent found avoidable delays.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman