DRN-2065800
The complaint
Miss A complains about the service received from her broker, Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited for her motor insurance policy. She is unhappy at not being able to renew her motor 
insurance policy before the renewal date at a lower quotation provided over the phone by the 
broker. She says that she suffered financial loss by having to take out a new policy at higher 
cost when her original policy expired.
What happened
Miss As motor insurance policy was due to expire on 25 March 2020 and she received a 
renewal notice on 20 February 2020 inviting her to renew her policy at an annual cost of 
£946.80. The broker called Miss A on 20 March 2020 to discuss her intentions and during 
the conversation she was offered a lower quotation of £826.60. Miss A said that she wanted 
to think about what she wanted to do, and the broker said that they would phone her back on 
23 March to discuss her intentions.  
The broker did not phone Miss A on that date, so Miss A then attempted to renew her policy 
through her online account. Miss A was unable to do this as the new quotation had not been 
linked to her account, which only showed the original, higher premium. Miss A then tried to 
contact the broker by phone to renew her policy but was unable to do so before the policy 
lapsed. Miss A was able to contact the broker on 31 March but was told that she could not 
renew her policy at the lower quotation as the policy had lapsed.
Miss A was unhappy at not being able to renew her policy and complained to the broker.  
The broker considered her complaint and acknowledged that they had provided her with 
poor service because they had not phoned her back when they said they would, and that the 
lower quotation was not linked to her online account as it should have been. They upheld her 
complaint and paid Miss A £125 in compensation.
Miss A was unhappy at the outcome of the complaint from the broker, saying that she had 
suffered financial loss through being unable to renew her policy at the lower quotation, 
meaning that she had to take out a new policy at higher cost and fewer benefits.
 
Our investigator thought that the broker had acted fairly in paying Miss A compensation for 
the poor service she received and being unable to take up the cheaper quotation. Miss A 
disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is the decide whether the broker has acted fairly towards Miss A. In referring to 
the broker (Hastings) I include its agents and representatives.
 In upholding Miss As complaint and paying her compensation, the broker has recognised 
that it has provided poor service to Miss A through not phoning her when they said they 
would and by not linking the lower quotation to her online account. Had they done either or 
both of these things, then Miss A would have been able to renew her policy at the lower 
quotation provided. There is an opportunity cost here, being the difference in cost between 
the original renewal quotation and the revised, lower quotation.
While there was some time between the date on which the broker had said they would 
phone Miss A (23 March) and the expiry of her policy (25 March) I recognise that Miss A was 
not able to get through to the broker when she tried to phone them. I acknowledge that the 
timing was such that it would have been likely to have been affected by the Covid Pandemic 
and the start of the first national lockdown.
Miss A maintains that she has suffered financial loss by not being able to renew her policy at 
the lower quotation and having to take out a new policy at higher cost and fewer benefits. 
However, I have not seen evidence that supports this view, such as the new policy, its cost 
and its terms and conditions. It is therefore unclear whether Miss A has suffered actual 
financial loss, or what the amount of any such loss has been. It is also unclear whether the 
amount of any such loss is greater than the amount of compensation that she has already 
received.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss As complaint. I consider that Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited has acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss A.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman