DRN-2123811
The complaint
Mr G says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G had four instalment loans with Lending Stream, taken out between September 2019 
and March 2020. Lending Stream offered to uphold Mr Gs complaint in respect of the fourth 
loan but didnt think the first three had been provided irresponsibly. An adjudicator endorsed 
Lending Streams offer. Mr G didnt accept this and so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive seen that Lending Stream asked Mr G to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure before it decided to lend to him. Mr G told Lending Stream that his monthly 
income was £1,650 to £1,700 per month and that his expenditure came to £850 to £1,100 
per month. I can see that Lending Stream calculated Mr Gs disposable monthly income as 
£396 to £611.50  so it did something more than just take into account Mr Gs declarations, 
although it hasnt shown us what. Lending Stream has also shown us it carried out credit 
checks but hasnt shown us the results of these checks.
I think accepting the information Mr G provided was for the most part proportionate. But 
because Lending Stream hasnt shown us the results of its credit check, I cant say whether 
it did enough to take into account the results of this. However, given that the repayments for 
loans 2 and 3  alone and cumulatively  were well within what the information provided by 
Mr G suggested he could afford, I dont think it is likely this information wouldve suggested 
these loans were not affordable. I can see for example that Lending Stream didnt request a 
full breakdown of Mr Gs loans and monthly repayments  only the value of his active 
accounts. And this sort of information is unlikely to have suggested the loans were 
unaffordable.
I also dont think that at this stage that Lending Stream shouldve been asking Mr G to 
provide proof of his income and outgoings. And I dont think the pattern of lending alone 
suggested the lending had become unsustainable. 
Lending Stream has already agreed to uphold the complaint about the fourth loan, so I dont 
need to say anything more about that loan.
In summary, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about the first three loans and I endorse 
Lending Streams offer on loan 4. Lending Stream will be aware, from the information Mr G 
provided during the course of this complaint, that he is dealing with a number of mental 
health issues. Lending Stream will need to bear this in mind when dealing with the 
outstanding debt so it can ensure it treats him positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  in the sense that Gain Credit LLCs original offer to settle 
this complaint is fair. Gain Credit LLC should do what it has offered if Mr G accepts this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman