DRN-3885044
The complaint
Mr D says National Westminster Bank Plc refused to transfer money as he instructed.
What happened
Mr D visited one of the banks branches on 4 August 2022 to transfer money to an account 
he holds with another bank. NatWest did not proceed with the transfer as Mr D did not 
answer all its questions in full. Mr D says he returned to the branch a week later with the 
required documents, but the bank still would not process the transfer and suggested he use 
online banking. 
Mr D wants NatWest to transfer the funds from a branch and compensate him for the cost 
and inconvenience of these two wasted trips to the branch, in addition to a personal apology 
in the branch from all involved. He says as a person with a disability he felt discriminated 
against and so devalued.
NatWest says it is required to complete a number of checks before transferring large sums 
of money. It could not proceed as Mr D did not provide all the information it needed during 
his visit on 4 August 2022. It said it has no record of Mr D making another visit to the branch 
until 23 August 2022 when a transfer was completed.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said, in summary, NatWest is entitled 
to refuse to follow payment instructions if an account holder cannot provide all the 
information it asks for. The terms of Mr Ds account allow for this. She said the bank 
suggested using online banking as two-step authentication is built into the online process, 
but she accepted Mr D did not have to sign up for online banking if he did not want to. She 
did not find any evidence that the bank had subjected Mr D to discriminatory treatment.
Mr D disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said it is 
not correct that his identity was in dispute and he had answered the other questions that he 
was asked about the source of the funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely
given the evidence we have and the wider circumstances.
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a payment the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud, a scam or
any other criminal act. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable enquiries about the 
circumstances surrounding the payment instruction. Against those obligations however, the 
bank also has a contractual duty to execute a valid and proper order to fulfil its customers 
instructions.
This means when Mr D asked to transfer £20,000 (to total £70,000 over four days to avoid 
fees) I think it is reasonable NatWest wanted to understand more about the transfer before 
proceeding. There seems to be some confusion as to whether or not Mr D had the 
necessary identification with him. He has told us both I had never been asked for 
documents when previously moving money  and obviously hadnt brought anything with 
me and I had my passport and photocard driving license too. However, I need not seek 
clarification on this point as the notes from Mr Ds branch visit show that the transfer did not 
go ahead as Mr D was unhappy to provide proof of the source of the funds. Mr D recalls 
telling the manager they were from a regulated UK bank from an account in his name, but it 
seems he did not provide the type of proof the bank required and so the bank would not 
continue with its customer protection checks. As the notes explaining this are written 
documentation from the date of the event, I find them to be persuasive and reliable evidence 
of what happened. 
Whilst I understand that the banks decision was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr D I find
no fault with its motivation or course of action. The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account 
(clause 2.2) provide that the bank can take such decisions. I have also reviewed the process 
maps and scripts that form the banks policy for transfers in its branches. And I find its 
actions were in line with its policy, that it applied in a fair and reasonable way here.
With regards to the visit the following week that Mr D has described, the bank has no record 
of this and says there is no evidence it happened. On balance, I think its likely Mr D didnt 
make another attempt to make a transfer at the branch on that date. I say this as based on 
the other evidence from the bank I think its most likely there would have been a note left on 
his account. I know this will be frustrating and disappointing for Mr D, and I dont doubt he 
has provided his honest recollections. However, I note the transfer was subsequently made 
successfully when Mr D returned on 23 August 2022 with different documentation. So, I cant 
fairly find that NatWest was simply unwilling to do the work, as Mr D suggests.
Mr D also said he felt discriminated against. In terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to 
determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider 
various factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the 
time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not NatWest has breached the Equality
Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. But for the reasons Ive set out above, from
what I have seen Im satisfied that the banks actions were solely driven by its internal
policies and that it acted fairly and reasonably here.
It follows I do not find NatWest made any errors it needs to put right.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman