DRN-1281700
The complaint
Mr P complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs handling of a declined payment on his debit card. 
What happened
On 30 August 2019 Mr P tried to buy a computer with his debit card. But the payment was 
declined. He made numerous telephone calls to Lloyds business banking and fraud 
departments, before eventually being told what the reason for the decline was. 
Mr P complained to Lloyds. He was very upset and annoyed at spending so much time on 
the phone to Lloyds, and for the poor customer service. He wanted the matter fully 
investigated. Amongst other things, he wanted all his banking charges for the last year 
refunded to him, and compensation of £1,000 to recognise the time he wasted trying to 
resolve the matter. 
Whilst Lloyds were investigating Mr Ps complaint, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Lloyds told us it accepted Mr P had received poor service. It said Mr P shouldve been told 
the reason for the declined payment sooner. And that he was misadvised in a number of 
phone calls as to how to rectify the situation. Lloyds offered Mr P £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. It also said it would reimburse Mr P the cost of the telephone calls 
hed had to make. 
One of our investigators thought the offer made by Lloyds to put things right was fair, and 
what hed expect to see in similar cases. He didnt think Lloyds needed to increase the 
compensation offered.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings and the case has been passed to me to 
review. Mr P felt it was important to obtain transcripts of the phone conversations hed had 
with Lloyds to fully understand how poorly he was treated. He was also concerned about 
Lloyds handling of his complaint, and of his request for information under the Data 
Protection Act (DPA). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I dont dispute Mr Ps recollection of what happened when he contacted Lloyds about the 
declined payment. Lloyds has accepted it misadvised Mr P, and that he had to make a significant number of phone calls, which caused him distress and inconvenience, as well as 
having a direct financial impact.
So the issue I need to consider is whether Lloyds has done enough to put things right. I 
appreciate that Mr P believes I need to know more about what was said in the phone 
conversations that took place in order to fully understand the impact Lloyds actions had on 
him. But given Lloyds accepts things went wrong, I dont consider further scrutiny of the 
phone calls is necessary. 
Based on the amount of phone calls and the time it took Mr P to get the matter resolved, I 
believe the £250 offered by Lloyds for the trouble and upset caused is fair, and in line with 
what Id expect to see offered in similar cases. Im also pleased to see that Lloyds has 
agreed to reimburse Mr P for the cost of the calls.     
In terms of Lloyds complaint handling, I can see Mr P first complained on 30 August 2019. A 
business has eight weeks to respond to a complaint. And so when Mr P referred his 
complaint to our service, Lloyds was still investigating his concerns, and he hadnt received a 
final response. Its unfortunate if Lloyds didnt respond to requests for an update from Mr P. 
But I can see from the records that Lloyds was investigating Mr Ps concerns with the 
intention of responding by the eight week deadline. So, I dont think Mr P has been 
disadvantaged in any way by Lloyds failure to keep him updated. 
I understand Mr P has concerns about Lloyds handling of a request for information under 
the DPA. If he remains unhappy with this then he may wish to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office.   
Putting things right
For the reasons I've given above, I believe Lloyds should pay Mr P £250 together with his 
call costs to resolve this complaint. Lloyds should contact Mr P for information on the cost of 
the phone calls.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr P £250 
and his call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman