DRN-3580552
The complaint
Ms T complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) is charging interest on cash 
withdrawals on her credit card.
What happened
Ms T had a credit card from Co-Op. It was taken out in 2016 with a limit of £3,000. On 18 
October 2016, there was a retail purchase of £31. On 19 October 2016, there was a cash 
withdrawal of £161.03. Interest has been debited to Ms Ts account each month since that 
time, split between purchase interest and cash interest. Ms T hasnt paid the account off 
during the period between October 2016 and up to when she complained to Co-Op in April 
2021.
Ms T complained. She said she couldnt see how she was paying so much cash interest 
each month  around £30. She felt this must be wrong and couldnt see how this could be 
the case when the initial cash withdrawal was only £161.03. She said Co-Op werent 
operating in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card.
In their final response, Co-Op said the interest rate applied to Ms Ts account was correct 
and would be debited to her account until the account was paid in full. The way in which 
payments to her account were allocated were shown on the back of her statements. 
Payments were firstly allocated to balances with the highest rate of interest. Co-Op said Ms 
T made a cash withdrawal of £1,760.28 on 19 October 2016.
Ms T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Co-Op acted reasonably. Co-Op had 
admitted theyd made an error in saying there was a cash withdrawal of £1,760.28 in 
October 2016. But notwithstanding that, Co-Ops terms and conditions  on the back of Ms 
Ts statements  said that if the interest rates for cash and retail purchases are the same (as 
they were), any payments made are allocated to the oldest transaction. During the period 
since 2016,  Ms T's balance was about £3,000 and the balance hadnt been cleared in any 
month. So- interest for cash advances would carry over monthly until fully repaid. Ms T had 
made further cash withdrawals, and so these also attracted interest. 
Following our investigators view, Ms T continued to question how the cash interest figures 
had been calculated. Our investigators, following input from Co-Op, explained the Co-Ops 
methodology to Ms T but ultimately, she disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand where Ms T is coming from. Initially, she felt that cash interest looked high at 
around £30 per month and wanted an explanation. Unfortunately, I have to say that Co-Ops 
final response didnt really explain this or answer her questions  which I think led her to 
believe something was wrong. I can see our investigators, following further work from Co-
Op, have tried to explain what has happened, and gone through several scenarios. But Ms T 
hasnt accepted this.  And she is now disputing whether Co-Op are acting within their terms 
and conditions. And so, her complaint has come to me to look at. 
It looks to me that over time, matters have become a little confused and I will try to ensure 
things are kept simple here.
On the back of Ms Ts statements, the order of how payments are allocated are explained. 
This says:
If you pay less than the total amount owing, we will use that payment to reduce your higher 
interest-rate balances first (such as cash withdrawals), before your lower interest-rate 
balances (such as purchases). If some amounts are charged at the same interest rate, well 
apply your payment to the oldest amounts first. However, if you have more than one 
promotional offer at the same rate, we'll apply your payment to balances on promotional 
offers that started first, even if you have older transactions on a promotional offer that started 
later.
Ms T made a retail purchase transaction on 18 October 2016 for £31. And then she made a 
cash transaction for £161.03 on 19 October 2016. And since that time, the interest rates on 
cash transactions and purchase transactions have been the same  I checked the 
statements to show this was so. For example, in 2016, both rates were 12.9% APR and in 
2021 they were both 18.7% APR.
And therefore  because the interest rates are the same, the payments Ms T made have 
been allocated to the purchase transactions first. This is in line with the latter part of Co-
Ops terms and conditions which say if you have more than one promotional offer at the 
same rate, we'll apply your payment to balances on promotional offers that started first, even 
if you have older transactions on a promotional offer that started later. 
Ive seen that Ms T has said that Co-Op arent complying with their terms and conditions 
because they arent applying payments to the oldest transactions first. She believes that 
because the cash transaction in October 2016 is old, it shouldve been repaid long ago. But 
this ignores the second part of Co-Ops terms and conditions which I have shown in the 
paragraph above. That is  that because her retail purchase was before the cash withdrawal 
(in October 2016), payments have been allocated firstly to purchases and then to cash 
withdrawals.
Ive looked at Ms Ts statements since 2016  and she has never paid off her account in full. 
And  there have been further cash withdrawals. So, what this means is that each month, 
payments were allocated to purchase transactions, and amounts were only allocated to the 
cash pot each month after purchase balances were repaid (if they were). And the cash pot 
grew as Ms T made further cash withdrawals. And so  relatively speaking, the interest 
payable on purchase balances reduced by comparison with the interest payable on the cash 
balances.
The only point at which interest on cash balances would stop being charged would be when 
Ms T pays off her account completely  because then the cash balance would finally be 
repaid.
Ms T hasnt been disadvantaged by this as the interest rates for cash and purchases have 
been the same throughout the period in question. And so  whether the interest on Ms Ts 
account balance is calculated on purchases or cash,  the total amount charged is the same. And so  the only way in which the allocation of payments affects the interest payable is in 
the split of interest between cash and purchase balances.
I hope Ms T will reflect on what I have said and see that Co-Op have acted reasonably here. 
And I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman