DRN-3795102
The complaint
Mr T complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly asked him to pay a policy 
excess when a third party claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T insured his car with Calpe Insurance. While driving the car, he struck a pedestrian 
crossing the road and they were injured. The third party later submitted a personal injury 
claim against Calpe Insurance as Mr Ts insurer. Calpe Insurance admitted liability and were 
paid damages to the third party. 
Caple Insurance sought to recover the £3,000 policy excess from Mr T. Mr T disputed this, 
and complained to Calpe Insurance. He said that he wasnt at fault for the accident and 
Calpe Insurance shouldnt have agreed liability or settled the claim, so it was unfair for Calpe 
Insurance to request the excess. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service when Calpe Insurance rejected it. Our investigator 
didnt think Calpe Insurance had done anything wrong, as the policy terms and conditions 
were clear that the excess was due when a claim was made. Mr T doesnt accept this, and 
so his complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at what the policy terms and conditions say about the policy excess, 
and when it applies. The excess is defined as:
The amount you must pay towards any claim including costs. You are responsible for the 
excess even if the incident is not your fault. The excess applies to all sections of this 
insurance. The excess is comprised of the figure shown on your schedule plus the amount of 
any sum of money owed by you to the underwriters in respect of any other claim hereunder 
or in respect of any previous or subsequent motor policy including any excess amount owed
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the relevant excess on Mr Ts policy was £3,000.
The terms and conditions go into further detail of when the excess will apply, and say You 
are liable for any claim (by you or any third party) made on your policy up to an amount of 
the value of the excess on the policy. For example, if you are involved in an incident where a 
third party makes a claim against you and there is no damage to your car, you will be liable 
to pay the underwriters the amount up to the value of your excess. 
Of particular relevance to this matter is the terms and conditions go on to say If there is a 
dispute between the underwriters and the policyholder, the settlement of the claim shall be 
as if it were made with the agreement of the policyholder, regardless that such settlement 
may be made without admission of liability. We will settle all claims on the best terms 
available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as much as is possible. You will be 
liable to pay/repay your excess amount on the basis of such settlement notwithstanding that 
you may not agree with the level of third party damage or injury which has been incurred, 
claimed and paid for.
The circumstances of what happened here appear to be accepted. Mr T was driving the car 
and struck the third party who was crossing the road. The third party subsequently made a 
claim against Mr Ts insurance. Calpe Insurance accepted liability but disputed the amount 
claimed for the third partys injuries. The matter proceeded to court and Calpe Insurance was 
required to pay an amount in excess of £20,000.
Under the terms of Mr Ts policy therefore, hes liable for the £3,000 excess. A claim was 
made against his policy by a third party. The circumstances of Mr Ts claim are explicitly 
referenced in the terms and conditions  he made no claim for any damage to his vehicle, 
but the third party has claimed against him. The terms and conditions say hes liable to pay 
the underwriters the £3,000 excess.
Mr T says the accident wasnt his fault. He points to the fact he wasnt prosecuted and says 
the police concluded the accident was the fault of the third party. In support of that position, 
hes provided us with a police report. I can see Mr T was questioned by the police under 
caution but after reviewing the evidence available, it was decided to take no further action 
against him. 
The police report details what was seen on CCTV footage of the collision, and suggests the 
third party pedestrian wouldnt have been visible to Mr T until they was a few feet apart 
because of the lighting, what the third party was wearing and where the accident happened. 
Having looked at the report, I cant conclude it apportions fault for the accident either with Mr 
T or the third party. I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr T not being prosecuted for any 
criminal offence means that the third party was at fault, or that Calpe Insurance would have 
concluded from this that he wasnt at fault. 
The options, as I see it, for Calpe Insurance, having received the claim from the third party, 
were to accept liability and dispute the amounts being claimed (which is what it did), accept 
liability and settle for the amounts claimed, or to dispute liability. If theyd disputed liability, 
then it seems likely to me that the matter would have proceeded to court and there would 
then have been a risk that Calpe Insurance would have lost, incurring further costs. I say this 
because the third party had submitted a legal claim and appointed solicitors, so was clearly 
prepared to proceed to court. I dont think Calpe Insurance acted unreasonably by accepting 
liability based on the information it had available.
In any case, any of the options available to Calpe Insurance would have resulted in costs 
being incurred. If it disputed liability (and won in court) then it would still be liable for its own 
legal fees, which may not have been recoverable from the third party. I think its more likely 
than not that those costs would have exceeded £3,000.
The terms and conditions refer to this situation, by saying We are obliged to investigate and 
handle any claim on a policy by a customer or a third party regardless of fault or liability. 
Such investigations may involve expenditure on various fees and services such as 
independent engineers, external claims adjusters, external legal or other professional advice 
and field agents. These expenditures are associated with the adjustment, recording, and 
settlement of claims, other than the claim payment itself. Such amounts are recorded as a 
claims payment and if applicable will form part of the excess sought to be repaid to the 
Underwriters. 
This isnt unusual, or unreasonable in my view. If Calpe Insurance incurs costs in disputing liability on a claim, then its entitled to record those costs on the claim, and consider them as 
part of the excess amount. 
I therefore think its fair to say that even if Calpe Insurance had disputed liability, as Mr T 
believes it should have, then it would have incurred costs which were more than the excess 
amount. As thats the case, it would have been entitled to recover the excess from Mr T, as 
outlined by the policy terms and conditions.
I dont think Calpe Insurance acted unreasonably in accepting liability for the claim. Even if it 
had disputed that liability, the costs would more than likely have exceeded the excess 
amount on Mr Ts policy. In either situation, Calpe Insurance can fairly request the payment 
of the excess from Mr T. 
I conclude that Calpe Insurance acted reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions, 
in requesting Mr T to pay the £3,000 excess after the third party claim was settled.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. It was reasonable for Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited to request the excess payment from Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman