DRN-2644159
The complaint
Mr K complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, unfairly 
restricted his account, didnt close it when he requested, and unlawfully returned the money 
in it to source. Mr K also complains that not all the payments returned to source have been 
processed correctly. 
To keep matters simple, Ill refer to Cashplus in the rest of my decision. 
What happened
Following a review, Cashplus restricted Mr Ks access to his account in November 2019. As 
part of its review, Cashplus asked Mr K to provide information, which included banking 
statements and proof of entitlement to some of his funds. 
In December 2019, unhappy with its actions, Mr K asked Cashplus to close his account and 
return all his funds to him. Initially Cashplus told Mr K that it would send him a cheque for the 
balance of his account. Later Cashplus told Mr K any payments into his account will be 
returned to where they came from  in other words, they will be returned to source. 
Mr K asked to speak to a manager - this didnt happen. Mr K then complained to Cashplus 
about all its actions. After some time, as Mr K hadnt received his final response to the 
complaint, he referred his complaint to this service. 
In late December 2019, Cashplus gave Mr K sixty-days notice that his account will be 
closed. Cashplus say it explained no further credits will be allowed into the account and any 
remaining funds will be returned to source. 
In early January 2020, Cashplus sent Mr K its final response. In summary it said: 
Mr Ks access to his account was restricted to allow Cashplus to fulfil its regulatory 
obligations, and act in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
Apologised for the delay in issuing him a final response and for not being given the 
opportunity to discuss the matter with a manager
Mr K was offered £25 as a goodwill gesture for the distress and inconvenience he 
had suffered 
Cashplus then returned several transactions from Mr Ks account back to source. Mr K said 
that by doing so Cashplus has acted unlawfully. He adds that funds in his account belong to 
him and Cashplus has no legal basis to send them anywhere without his permission. Mr K 
wants to know what legislation or regulation gives Cashplus the right to act in this way.  
One of our investigators then looked into Mr Ks complaint. And in summary they found: 
Cashplus has legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. This can sometimes 
mean it has to carry out reviews of its customers accounts, which can lead to 
accounts being restricted and information requested from its customer  
Cashplus acted correctly in the actions it took and they were in line with the account 
terms and conditions 
Cashplus acted fairly by not acting on Mr Ks request to close his account as it was in 
the process of returning funds to source and completing its investigation. Once the 
funds had been returned, notice to close the account was given 
Mr K should seek legal advice if he wants to know exact reasons about Cashplus 
returning funds from his account 
In response, Mr K said he had not broken any account terms and conditions. And the terms 
of account do not say Cashplus can send his money anywhere without his permission. Mr K 
reiterated that he wants to know the exact regulation or term which permits Cashplus to 
return his money in the way it has. 
Our investigator added that as Mr K didnt provide Cashplus with the information it requested 
as part of its review, it hadnt acted unfairly by keeping the account open, placing restrictions 
upon it, and returning the funds to source. 
As Mr K remains unhappy, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I note how strongly Mr K feels 
about this matter, and I know my decision will disappoint him. So Ill explain why. 
Account restrictions
The investigator was right to point out that Cashplus has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. 
To comply with its obligations Cashplus may need to review an account and/or restrict its 
customers access. If Cashplus didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious 
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Cashplus is entitled to ask a customer for 
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into 
an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Cashplus to block Mr Ks account and ask him for information relating to activity on his 
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Mr K inconvenience, I cant say 
Cashplus treated him unfairly when it blocked his account - and asked him to provide 
information.
Account closure and funds returned to source 
Mr K says Cashplus should have closed his account when he asked them to do so. I note 
Mr K asked Cashplus to do this when he came to know his account was under review and 
had been restricted. This instruction also followed Cashplus request for him to provide 
information about his account activity and source of funds. 
Mr K has been very clear to this service that he chose not to gather and then send this 
information to Cashplus. He says Cashplus request was unreasonable as it would have 
meant collating reems and reems of documents.Having considered the basis of Cashplus review, and the information it says Mr K was 
asked to provide, Im not persuaded this was an unreasonable request. As Ive already said, 
Cashplus has important regulatory and legal obligations to meet, so it must determine what 
actions it takes to meet them. 
So, I dont think Cashplus has done anything wrong by asking for the type of information it 
has from Mr K.
Cashplus closed the account once it had completed its review and then gave Mr K 
sixty-days notice of its intention to do so. In my view that was reasonable given Cashplus 
concerns about how Mr K was operating his accounts.   
So, given Cashplus was fulfilling an important regulatory obligation by reviewing Mr Ks 
account, and then placing restrictions on it whilst this happened, I dont think it acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when not closing his account when he requested it. 
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he wanted the funds in the account to be sent to him. 
And by returning them to source, Cashplus acted outside of the terms and conditions of the 
account  and without legal basis. Mr K has been very clear he wants to know exactly where 
in the terms it says Cashplus can act in this way  or what legislation or regulation permits it 
to take this action.    
I appreciate Mr K has asked for the specific section of legislation Cashplus relied upon to 
return the funds from his account to source. Cashplus is required to comply with a wide 
range of law and regulation, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook and 
various pieces of primary and secondary legislations. Most of these regulatory requirements 
apply to all UK banks and other financial service providers. Cashplus is subject to these 
legal and regulatory requirements.
Cashplus is under no legal obligation that Im aware of which requires it to give the exact 
basis for its actions. Because of that I wont be revealing its exact justification in my decision. 
But based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Cashplus had a lawful basis for taking 
the action it did; even though there isnt an express term in the contract regarding the 
returning of funds to source.  
I would like Mr K to know our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. 
Some of the information Cashplus has provided is information I consider should be kept 
confidential. But Id like to reassure Mr K that Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
Cashplus has acted fairly by returning funds from his account to source.
Funds being returned to source correctly   
Its not entirely clear if Mr K is still complaining about this issue. But, in any case, Ive 
considered the information both Mr K and Cashplus have sent to me in relation to this. Mr K 
says the funds that were in his account havent been returned properly to the originator  a 
Government department. 
I note Mr K has previously spoken to this Government department. Cashplus hasnt received 
any returned funds or notice of any issues from the originator. Given the time that has elapsed since the funds were returned, Id have expected Cashplus to have received some 
notification by now had that not been the case. 
If Mr K still think the funds havent been returned, he should take it up with the Government 
department directly.  So it follows, Im persuaded Cashplus has returned all the funds in 
Mr Ks account to source. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
