DRN-2959925
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unfairly refused a claim 
under their safe custody insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q took out a safe custody insurance policy to cover the contents of items stored 
in a deposit box at their bank. In 2018, they were told the branch was closing and theyd 
need to collect the box. So they contacted RSA to notified it that theyd be moving the 
insured items to another bank. 
After collecting the box, Mr and Mrs Q found items of jewellery were missing which they 
believe to have been stolen, so they contacted RSA again to make a claim. They told RSA 
that they didnt open the box in the bank as it didnt feel safe, but they were concerned that it 
felt light. They said they returned straight home, opened the box and thats when they 
realised not all their jewellery was there. They also noticed the box had been tampered with. 
Mr and Mrs Q reported the incident to the police. And raised a complaint to the bank. It was 
agreed that RSA would await the outcome of these investigations before making a decision 
on the claim. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs Q advised RSA that their complaint about the bank wasnt upheld. It 
had been considered separately by our service and the ombudsman determined there was 
insufficient evidence to show the banks actions had resulted in any loss. No further action 
had been taken by the police. 
RSA continued its investigations into the claim and made enquiries with both the police and 
the bank, but neither party was forthcoming. It also spoke to Mr and Mrs Q again about the 
events that took place. RSA says Mr and Mrs Qs testimony at this time was that they 
opened the box in the bank. But as they were concerned the room wasnt secure, they didnt 
check the items. Instead, they put the jewellery pouches in their pockets, put the box into a 
carrier bag and went straight home. 
RSA declined the claim. It said there was no evidence of a theft, so it wasnt satisfied an 
insured event had taken place. 
Mr and Mrs Q asked RSA to reconsider the matter as a claim for loss, rather than theft. They 
said there was a possibility a few pouches fell out their pockets, but they couldnt be sure. 
RSA said that Mr and Mrs Qs testimony throughout has been that the box felt light when 
retrieving it from the bank and that it looked tampered with. Theyd said they were concerned 
about the security measures in place which is why a formal complaint about the bank was 
raised. In light of that, RSA didnt think it was appropriate to reconsider the claim as loss 
solely because the claim for theft had been declined. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs Q raised a complaint to RSA, but it wasnt upheld. Following this, they 
paid for an examination of the deposit box. The experts opinion, based solely on 
photographs of the box, concluded that it looked tampered with. But RSA said this didnt 
alter its decision. This was because the report was obtained two years after the incident and 
it said the box couldve been marked at any time. 
Mr and Mrs Q brought their complaint to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said there was insufficient evidence to show an insured event had taken place, so he didnt 
think RSA were unfair to decline the claim. As Mr and Mrs Q didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Qs safe custody insurance policy covers loss or damage arising from certain 
situations including, but not limited to, theft. It also provides cover for loss or damage to 
property whilst removed from the banks custody, subject to conditions. 
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show they 
have a valid claim. In this case, Mr and Mrs Q need to show that, on balance, a theft has 
occurred. As RSA isnt satisfied theyve done so, it declined the claim. 
I should be clear that it isnt my role to determine whether or not a theft occurred. I need to 
determine whether, based on the information provided, RSAs decision to decline the claim 
was fair and reasonable. 
The information provided to RSA to support the claim has been limited. As Mr and Mrs Q 
didnt open the box and inspect the contents whilst in the bank, they have no clear account 
of what was in there when it was collected or any witness statements from staff members 
following a discovery of missing items. No CCTV evidence could be provided, and no action 
was pursued by the police. Furthermore, our service concluded that there were adequate 
security measures in place by the bank to prevent theft, and there was no evidence to 
suggest the banks actions had resulted in the loss. 
Unhelpfully, Mr and Mrs Qs testimony of what happened on the day they collected the box 
has changed over time. And theyve said there is a possibility the pouches fell out their 
pockets after leaving the bank. This may have cast doubt over their credibility and the 
validity of their claim. 
Im very sorry that Mr and Mrs Q no longer have the items of jewellery. I know they were 
expensive pieces and also had sentimental value. So I appreciate how disappointed theyll 
be by my decision. But from what Ive seen, they havent shown that, on balance, a theft 
occurred. I think RSA has acted reasonably by making its own enquiries with the bank and 
the police in an attempt to obtain evidence, but these have been unsuccessful. So I dont 
think it was unfair for RSA to conclude that there is insufficient evidence to show an insured 
event took place. 
Ive also considered whether it would be reasonable for RSA to reconsider the claim under 
the cover for loss or damage to property whilst removed from the banks custody. But I dont 
think it is. I say this because it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs Q believe the jewellery was 
lost whilst in their possession. Theyve been very clear that they believe there has been foul-
play at the bank. So this reclassification request appears to arise solely from the rejection of 
the theft claim. That said, if Mr and Mrs Q now believe their items were lost outside of the bank, theyre 
entitled to raise a new claim under their policy. RSA should consider it fairly, but as with this 
claim, the onus will be on Mr and Mrs Q to show they have a valid claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman