DRN-3762289
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 19 November 2021, Mr M came across an article online about an investment company Ill 
refer to as B, which was endorsed by a well-known celebrity. The article recommended 
investing in cryptocurrency and Mr M followed the link provided and submitted his contact 
details. The next day he received a call from someone claiming to be a broker who said he 
could help him to invest in cryptocurrency.
The broker asked Mr M for proof of ID and the last four digits of his bank card. He also sent 
a code via WhatsApp and explained that whenever he was contacted by someone from B, 
they would tell him this code. He was then allocated an account manager who advised him 
to download AnyDesk so he could help him to open a trading account and set up an account 
with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as C. The account manager asked Mr 
M to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then 
load it onto an online wallet. 
Between 22 November 2021 and 15 December 2021, Mr M made nine transfers to C 
totalling £42,701 and two payments totalling £304.28 using a Visa Debit card connected to 
his HSBC account. During the scam period he received credits totalling £72.47.
Mr M could see his profits on the trading account, but the account manager said he needed 
to deposit more money if he wanted access to better profits. This led him to borrow money 
from his mother, his daughter and a friend until the account manager advised him to take out 
a loan. When Mr M discussed this with his brother, his brother raised concerns and he 
realised hed been scammed. He contacted HSBC in December 2021 and it said it was 
unable to refund any of the money hed lost because the funds had been moved into an 
account in his name.
It said that when Mr M made the first two payments, he was given a written warning that 
fraudsters can offer what appear to be genuine investment opportunities and advised to 
check the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website. It said he would need to contact the 
cryptocurrency merchant he paid, and it was unable to recover the funds.
Mr M complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. He explained hed 
never invested before, so he thought the use of AnyDesk was an ordinary investment 
practice. HSBC had contacted him when the first payment bounced, and he wasnt asked 
any questions about the investment. 
He also explained that he was extremely stressed when making the investments and he felt 
the various brokers wanted him to succeed even though they made him feel guilty. He said 
HSBC had failed to recognise the unusual account activity and if it had asked probing and 
open-ended questions, it would have realised he was being scammed. He believes the 
written warnings he received were ineffective.
Mr Ms representative said the payments were unusual, noting that in August 2021, the 
largest payment was £501.58 and in September and October 2021, the largest payments 
were £1,512.72.
HSBC said the card payments werent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code. The claim was declined because the payments were sent to Mr Ms own 
cryptocurrency account, and he was presented with effective warnings on 26 November 
2021 and 1 December 2021.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied there was no 
prospect of a successful chargeback request in relation the two card payments and that the 
CRM code didnt apply because the funds were paid to an account in Mr Ms own name.
He listened to the call that took place when Mr M contacted HSBC to check funds had been 
returned to his account and he didnt think he said anything which should reasonably have 
alerted HSBC to the fact hed been scammed. 
He didnt think the initial payments were suspicious. But he thought the £6,000 payment Mr 
M made on 9 December 2021 was unusual because even though C was no longer a new 
payee, in the year prior to the payment, the only transaction over £6,000 was a mortgage 
payment, and there were no other large payments in or out of the account. 
Our investigator thought HSBC should have asked Mr M questions about the payment and 
as he hadnt been told to lie, he was satisfied hed have answered the questions truthfully, 
which would have alerted HSBC to several red flags. These red flags included the fact the 
investment opportunity was endorsed by a prominent celebrity and involved a broker who 
had advised him to make an onwards payment from the cryptocurrency exchange platform 
and to use AnyDesk. Because of that, he thought HSBC should refund the money Mr M had 
lost from 9 December 2021 onwards.
HSBC has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, arguing that the scam 
took place from the cryptocurrency exchange. It maintains Mr M was presented with written 
warnings which were relevant to the scam, yet he chose not to take the advice and conduct 
further checks or to seek independent financial advice, so a warning on 9 December 2021 
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome because he was clearly satisfied that the 
investment was genuine.
It has argued that by the time he made the £6,000 payment, Mr M had made several smaller 
payments to the same beneficiary and received two credits, so its systems would have 
treated C as a trusted beneficiary. And Mr M didnt carry out any checks before making the 
first payment, which was extremely reckless as the volatility of cryptocurrency is well known.
It has also argued that £71.47 was an unrealistic return for an investment of £305.28 and it 
doesnt accept it could have uncovered the scam because Mr M chose to ignore relevant 
warnings and other significant warning signs. And there was no negative information 
available online about B, so a human intervention wouldnt have made a difference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were to an account in Mr Ms own name, and Im satisfied thats 
fair.
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Ms payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr M).
Mr Ms own testimony supports that he used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers to C. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of it. That is, in exchange for Mr Ms 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision 
not to raise a chargeback request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
Im satisfied Mr M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
It's not in dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr M didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC 
ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr M when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr M from financial harm due to fraud. 
Mr M was given pop-up warning messages on 26 November 2021 and 1 December 2021, 
but none of the scam payments triggered a call. Ive considered the nature of the payments 
in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr M normally ran his 
account and I think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange and the first six payments were relatively low value, so I dont think HSBC needed 
to intervene. But on 9 December 2021, Mr M made a payment for £6,000, having made a payment earlier the same day for £1,500 and, even though by this point he had paid C on six 
previous occasions, and he was paying an account in his own name, there wasnt a history 
of large payments on the account, and I think HSBC should have intervened because the 
activity was unusual.
I would expect HSBC to have contacted Mr M to ask him some questions about the 
payments including why he was paying a cryptocurrency merchant, whether there was a 
third party involved and if so, how he met them, whether hed been advised to download 
AnyDesk, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed been allowed to 
make small withdrawals and whether hed been advised to make an onwards payment from 
the cryptocurrency exchange. And as theres no evidence he was coached to lie, I think hed 
have told it the investment had been endorsed by a celebrity, hed been told to download 
AnyDesk, hed been allowed to make a small withdrawal and hed been advised to make an 
online payment from the cryptocurrency merchant.
Even though there were no warnings about B on either the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) or International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites, I think 
there were enough red flags present for HSBC to have identified that Mr M was being 
scammed and that it should therefore have provided a tailored scam warning. And as theres 
no evidence that Mr M was keen to take risks with his money, I think hed have listened to a 
very clear warning from HSBC and thought twice about going ahead with the payment. 
HSBC has argued that Mr M went ahead following the written warnings it gave on 26 
November 2021 and 1 December 2021, but I agree with our investigator that a conversation 
would have had more of an impact than a written warning and this is supported by the way 
he responded to the concerns raised by his brother when he first learned hed been 
scammed.
Because of this, I think that HSBC failed to intervene on 9 December 2021 in circumstances 
which might reasonably have prevented Mr Ms loss, so it should refund the money he lost 
from that point onwards.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr M was to blame for 
the fact he didnt foresee the risk. 
Mr M wasnt an experience investor, and he was impressed by the professional nature of Bs 
website and the people he thought were assisting him with the investment. He was also 
reassured by the fact he could see what he believed were his profits on the trading account 
and because hed been able to make a small withdrawal, which he didnt realise was a red 
flag for fraud.
HSBC has said that Mr M was promised unrealistic returns, but the credit into the account 
was a withdrawal, not a return on the investment. And instances of individuals making large 
amounts of money by trading in cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent 
that I dont think it was unreasonable for him to have believed what he was told by the broker 
in terms of the returns he was told were possible.
Mr M wasnt an experienced investor. He wouldnt have known that the use of remote 
access software is a red flag, and this unfamiliarity was compounded by the sophisticated 
nature of the scam. He has explained that his personal circumstances impacted his decision 
making and I dont accept his job title means he should have been any more able to foresee 
the risk. So, I dont think he can fairly be held responsible for his own loss.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should: 
refund Mr M the money he lost from the seventh payment onwards, minus any 
credits he received.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman