DRN-3780712
The complaint
A complains about how Unum Ltd dealt with a claim against an optical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, A has the benefit of an employers group optical insurance 
policy underwritten by Unum. 
A made a claim against the policy in relation to optical treatment. Unum said it had 
closed the claim as it didnt have a receipt or statement showing relevant details. Unum 
also told A that it couldnt process the claim as the supporting documents werent in 
English.  
A says that Unum wouldnt process the claim because the optical care was in another 
country and then said that it couldnt translate the prescription in order to determine 
whether the claim qualified under the terms of the policy. A wants Unum to deal with the  
claim and compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
In response to As complaint, Unum said that theres been a subsequent successful 
claim and the limit of the policy had almost been reached. It also agreed to pay A 
compensation of £100, which it said was more than the value of the claim in dispute. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Unum hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim as A hadnt shown that the claim was covered under the 
policy. The investigator thought that Unums offer of compensation of £100 was fair. 
Unum agreed with the investigator. A said that Unum hadnt acted fairly and that the 
compensation of £100 isnt sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The policy provides reimbursement up to certain limits for an annual sight test, first lenses or 
lenses and frames where theres been a change in prescription. It also provides that the 
policyholder can visit any optician, including outside the UK and must provide an itemised 
receipt which contains a full description of treatment and costs. 
did Unum treat A unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
As complaint because I dont think that Unum acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of the agreed 
areas of cover within the policy. The receipt A submitted with the claim was in a 
foreign language. So, Unum couldnt tell if the claim fell within the terms of the 
policy. In those circumstances, I dont think that Unum acted unfairly in not paying 
the claim, as it didnt have the information it required. 
In the particular circumstances here, I dont think that the onus was on Unum to 
translate As supporting documents. Unum says it rarely receives claims for 
treatment outside the UK. It did endeavour to translate the documents but was only 
partly successful. So, it couldnt be sure that As claim was covered. 
Unum says that A has subsequently submitted a successful claim almost up to the 
limits of the cover. So, its not appropriate to direct Unum to deal with the claim. I 
dont think that Unum treated A unfairly or unreasonably, so Im not asking it to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. A should contact Unum directly if the 
offer of compensation of £100 has not already been paid.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman