DRN-3974981
The complaint
Mr H complains that BISL Limited failed to provide good customer service when trying to 
cancel his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr H renewed his motor insurance policy through the broker, BISL. Mr H made 
the decision to sell his vehicle in May 2022, which meant he no longer needed the insurance 
cover. He emailed BISL on 19 May 2022 to request the policy was cancelled. He didnt 
receive a reply and so he sent a further email on 26 May 2022. On 6 June 2022, Mr H called 
BISL and he was informed that the policy was still active. BISL told him that policies couldnt 
be cancelled by email. He was advised in this conversation that if he could send proof of the 
sale the cancellation would be actioned. 
Mr H complained to BISL about this and requested a full refund of his premium and other out 
of pocket expenses he incurred. BISL responded to say that Mr H had sent his emails to a 
non-monitored inbox which meant that he wouldnt receive a reply  and this had been 
explained on the email he had initially received. So, BISL didnt agree to provide a full 
refund. However, it did provide a pro-rata premium back to the date he sold his vehicle and 
also waived the cancellation fee. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied with this outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Mr H 
had sent his request for the policy cancellation by responding to a generic email that BISL 
had sent to him  but it had been made clear on that original email that replies would not be 
responded to. So, she didnt think BISL had done anything wrong. And she noted that when 
he called BISL, it resolved the issue by explaining what needed to be provided in order for 
the cancellation to be completed and ultimately arranging the refund.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion and, as no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, while I appreciate this may be disappointing for Mr H, I dont think that 
BISL has to do anything more. I say this because:
The email sent by BISL to Mr H, which he responded to, was a generic feedback 
email. At the bottom of the email, it states Please do not reply to this email as this 
inbox does not accept replies. I think BISL made it clear that any emails sent to this 
account wouldnt receive a response  it didnt intentionally ignore Mr Hs request. 
So, Im satisfied that BISL hasnt acted unreasonably by not providing a response to 
these emails.
Mr H has referred to the policy documentation which he says is unclear about how 
contact should be made for policy cancellations. Ive looked at the insurance 
documentation provided and I cannot see an email address quoted at any point when 
referring to cancelling the policy. The documentation suggests that this can be done 
either via an online self service centre or by phone. I think BISL has been clear in 
relation to the options available to Mr H to complete this process. 
Following Mr Hs telephone call with BISL, the cancellation of his policy was resolved. 
He has received a pro-rata refund of his premium, only paying for cover from the start 
of the policy to the date of the sale of the vehicle. BISL also agreed to waive the 
cancellation fee which would normally be payable. Im satisfied that BISL has 
provided Mr H with the appropriate refund and gone further by not charging a 
cancellation fee. I dont require it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman