DRN-3132552
The complaint
Ms A says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Ms A says that she was in a debt 
spiral and she couldnt afford the repayments towards her Morses loans. She thinks that 
Morses shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms A between 
June 2013 and February 2014.
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 28/06/2013 £250 50 05/06/2015
2 21/09/2013 £800 50 30/08/2016
3 16/11/2013 £250 50 15/01/2016
4 23/11/2013 £800 50 30/08/2016
5 11/02/2014 £600 50 30/08/2016
I understand Ms A hasnt been able to repay loans 2, 4 and 5 in full. The end dates in the 
table above for these loans, again I understand, refer to the date the accounts were passed 
to a third-party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had lent 
irresponsibly for loans 1 to 3. He thought that it shouldnt have approved loans 4 and 5. This 
is because it was likely Ms A was having problems managing her money at this time. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators outcome. Although it did say that Ms A hadnt paid any 
interest towards loans 4 and 5. And so it would reduce the outstanding balance due so that 
Ms A would only repay the capital she borrowed for these loans. 
Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and Morses subsequent offer. Ms A didnt 
say why she didnt agree with the proposed outcome. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms As complaint in part and have explained why below.
Morses accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 4 and 5. And I agree that these loans 
were mis-sold and that Morses should calculate compensation for them. This is for the same 
reasons the adjudicator said.  So, I wont comment further on this lending and Ive included 
the compensation in my putting things right section below. 
Ive looked at whether Morses irresponsibly lent loans 1 to 3. 
As loans 1 to 3 were sold a long time ago Morses doesnt have much information from the 
time of sale. Ms A has provided her recollections about what her income and expenditure 
were likely to be at the time. But, again, the information Ms A has provided doesnt give a 
great amount of detail. 
And its not clear to me if the information Ms A has provided is accurate. For example, Ms A 
says her income was £10 a week which seems to be very low. So, without supporting 
evidence, its difficult for me to rely on this information. Overall, I havent seen enough to say 
loans 1 to 3 werent affordable for Ms A. 
And I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of 
any financial problems Ms A mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 3 were 
likely to be proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans were likely to be 
reasonable. Im not upholding Ms As complaint about them. 
  
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Ms A loans 4 and 5. Ive included our standard compensation 
below, but it should be noted that if Ms A didnt pay any interest on loans 4 and 5 there will 
be no compensation payable and A and B will not apply. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms A having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If there is still an outstanding 
balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms A. 
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms As complaint. Morses Club PLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman