DRN-1804639
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way she was treated when her agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance ended.
What happened
In January 2015 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Nissan Finance. The agreement was for a term of 4 years with monthly payments of 
£254.69 with a final option to purchase payment of £5,227.70 due on 1 March 2019.
Mrs M is unhappy because she received a default notice in April 2019 advising her of an 
outstanding balance of £5,227.70. 
She contacted Nissan Finance, who said that it had sent letters to her in November and 
December 2018 and January 2019 advising her that the agreement was coming to an end 
and setting out her options to either trade in the car or keep the car and pay the balloon 
payment. 
Mrs M told Nissan Finance she hadnt received these letters. She also said she was 
unaware that her agreement was a PCP agreement and that she had entered into it on the 
understanding that it was a hire purchase agreement.
Nissan Finance advised Mrs M that she had a short time to decide how to proceed. Mrs M 
decided to hand back the car. It was collected the following month.
In July 2019 Mrs M tried to apply for finance to purchase another car. Her application was 
rejected because Nissan Finance had registered a default on her credit file.
Mrs M complained to Nissan Finance. She said shed never been provided with a  copy of 
the finance agreement and felt that Nissan Finance had acted unfairly in registering the 
default when she had made all payment to date. She was also unhappy that shed been 
asked to pay a  shortfall of £575 to meet the final payment following the sale of the car.
In response, Nissan Finance said it had acted correctly in terminating the agreement due to 
the arrears of the optional final payment. It said Mrs M had 14 days to pay the shortfall.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. She wants Nissan 
Finance to refund the shortfall payment and remove the default.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, She was satisfied that Mrs M had been 
provided with all of the relevant paperwork at the point of supply and had signed to say she 
was happy with the agreement. She said the letters which Nissan Finance had sent to Mrs M 
had been sent to the correct address and that Nissan Finance didnt made an error in 
registering the default because the final payment hadnt been paid when it fell due.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said she hadnt been provided with any documents at the point of 
supply to confirm the finance information and that shed entered into the agreement on the 
understanding that it was a hire purchase agreement. She said Nissan finance shouldve 
sent its letters to her by recorded delivery, and that it had been slow to collect the car from 
her once the agreement had been terminated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says she entered into the agreement on the understanding that it was a hire purchase 
agreement. She feels that the agreement was mis-sold.
Ive looked at the agreement. It is a PCP, which is a type of hire purchase agreement. The 
final payment is clearly stated in the agreement, as is the number of monthly payments 
before the final payment was due. Mrs M has signed the agreement to say she agrees with 
the terms and conditions. Im satisfied that the information in the agreement is clear and that 
Mrs M had the opportunity to read it before she signed it.
Ive thought about whether the agreement was mis-sold. I dont doubt that Mrs M had 
discussions with the dealership about the type of finance agreement she was entering. 
There arent any notes of these discussions and because I wasnt there I cant be certain of 
exactly what was said. I can see that Mrs M has stated in her complaint that she discussed a 
lower repayment with the dealership and chose to proceed with this. So I think its likely that 
she discussed the PCP agreement, because this is a lower monthly repayment than other 
types of hire purchase agreement.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold.
Ive also looked at the letters which Nissan Finance sent to Mrs M in November and 
December 2018, and January 2019. These set out the options available to Mrs M when the 
agreement ends. I appreciate that Mrs M says she didnt receive these letters. Shes also 
pointed out that an incorrect email address was used when Nissan Finance tried to contact 
her by email. Whilst I agree that the email address appears to be incorrect, this doesnt 
explain why the letters didnt reach Mrs M in the post. Im satisfied that the letters were 
correctly addressed. I cant say why Mrs M didnt receive them, but Im satisfied that Nissan 
Finance did enough by writing to Mrs M at the correct address.
Ive thought about whether Nissan Finance acted fairly when it terminated the agreement 
and registered a default. I appreciate that Mrs M feels that it rushed to terminate the 
agreement before the extension of time she had agreed with them to reach a decision had 
expired. I understand that this mustve been frustrating for Mrs M. But on balance, I dont 
think Nissan Finance has done anything wrong. The final payment was overdue, so Nissan 
Finance was within its rights to terminate the agreement in any event. And the final payment 
had been overdue for some time, so I think the default fairly reflected the state of Mrs Ms 
account.
I appreciate that Mrs M has said that she never received a copy of the agreement. However, 
if this was the case, I wouldve expected Mrs M to raise this sooner than she did. I think she 
had a reasonable time (4 years) to do so.
The shortfall payment reflects the fact that  the car sold for less than the amount needed to 
settle the agreement. Mrs M has said she wasnt made aware that she would be liable for 
any shortfall. Nissan Finance has said that it told Mrs M she would be liable for any shortfall. 
I understand Mrs Ms frustration here and I dont disbelieve her when she says the collection 
agent didnt mention anything about a shortfall. However, I wouldnt expect the collection agent to discuss the finance agreement, because the collection agent is usually a third party 
engaged by Nissan Finance to collect the car. Even if Mrs M wasnt made aware that she 
would be liable for the shortfall, I dont think this warrants me asking Nissan Finance to 
refund it. I think its  clear from the agreement that the final payment must be paid in full, so I 
think Mrs M ought reasonably to have anticipated that if the car sold for less than the final 
payment she would be responsible for the balance. 
Mrs M has raised some issues in relation to delays in collecting the car. Ive taken these 
concerns into account but I dont think the delay was excessive and I cant see that this had 
any negative financial impact on Mrs M. 
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to say that the 
agreement was mis-sold and I dont think Nissan Finance has made an error by terminating 
the agreement and registering a default. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman