DRN-4139083
The complaint
Mr R complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) lent to him
when he had many other loans outstanding and Shelby ought to have known that. He says
Shelby lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided by Shelby here is a loan table:
Loan Approved Amount Term repaid
1 2 August 2020 £150 6 months
£47.08 each28 November 2020
2 23 December 2020 £300
(applied for £500)9 months
£64.63 each22 March 2021
gap in lending 
3 27 May 2022 £250 6 months
£82.8028 June 2022
After Mr R had complained to Shelby it sent him its final response letter (FRL) in which it 
gave reasons as to why it considered it had carried out checks proportionate to the loan 
value and the other circumstances it knew about Mr R from his application form. It did not 
uphold his complaint.
Mr R referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. He considered the details and did not think that Shelby needed to 
put things right for Mr R. He had pointed out the gap in lending between Mr R paying off 
loan 2 and applying to Shelby for loan 3. That would have made a difference to our 
adjudicators outcome and I explain more fully in this decision. The adjudicator to which 
I refer is not the adjudicator currently holding the complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy about this outcome. He emailed us and informed us that he had 
gambling problems and had a health issue. We had not been aware of the gambling issues 
up to this point. 
I have listened to the recorded calls between Mr R and two of our adjudicators in which Mr R 
highlighted the fact that he had so many loans at the time that he ought not to have been 
given more credit. 
Our former adjudicator did a second view but his opinion did not alter and he added that if 
Mr R had been gambling he would not have expected Shelby to have known about that 
unless Mr R had informed Shelby. 
From the information weve received from Shelby it seems that Mr R had not informed 
Shelby of what he spent his money on. And our former adjudicator added that Mr Rs 
declared income and expenditure (the expenditure figures had been increased by Shelby 
when assessing his applications) gave the clear indication that he had enough disposable 
income with which to afford the repayments for each of the loans.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He sent to us two PowerPoint files. 
He repeated that in his view he had nine outstanding loans at the time. He was invited to 
send in additional information before it was referred to an ombudsman including information 
about when it was he informed Shelby about his health issues. Mr R had not sent those 
items in. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me. I analysed the credit search results carried out 
by Shelby and asked for additional information from Mr R which he sent to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2023. A duplicate of that appears in the next 
section so that both parties have it to hand. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Duplicate of what I provisionally decided  and why  on 16 August 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account several different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. As there was a break in the lending 
relationship between loans 2 and 3 I dont consider that a pattern developed. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether 
he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money to make the 
repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay his loans sustainably. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and, 
made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make 
them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments 
are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint. 
Gap in the lending
Mr R may not appreciate, because I dont think its been explained to him, that the break in the 
lending between paying off loan 2 and applying to Shelby for loan 3 would lead me to say that it would 
have been reasonable for Shelby to have treated loan 3 as the first loan in a new loan chain. Which 
ordinarily would mean that Shelby could have treated Mr R as a new customer when he applied for 
loan 3 and therefore could have relied on the information about his income and his expenditure given 
to it by Mr R. That would be proportionate for the first loan in a new chain. So, this break does have 
some implications. 
Mr R did not need the credit provided by Shelby for the 14 months between paying off loan 2 
successfully and applying to it for loan 3. I appreciate that Mr R may feel differently but I am 
approaching the complaint impartially and with the benefit of being able to review all the information 
I have from both parties and from both perspectives. I have kept all this in mind when coming to the 
conclusion I have. 
Provisional findings
I am issuing a provisional decision to give reasons why I think that for two of the loans Shelby ought 
to have investigated further before approving the loans. And I say to both parties that Ive considered 
this complaint carefully as I am aware that Mr R gave reasons for the loan applications which were 
home improvements, appliance purchases and medical/dental. And I am aware that the value of 
these loans was not particularly high. So, at first view they may have looked affordable and taken for 
household reasons and due to a short term- cash flow issue which often is what these sorts of high-
cost loans were used for. 
In our adjudicators second view he said that he thought the Credit Reference Agency (CRA) search 
results did not show multiple payday loans held by Mr R at the time. 
This is where my opinion departs from that held by our former adjudicator. I have reviewed the 
spreadsheet results sent to us by Shelby which gave its CRA search results and I have seen that 
Mr R did have multiple loans and an overdraft on one of his bank accounts plus credit cards. In 
fairness it is not necessarily clear as to which of the outstanding loans were high cost and which were 
relatively standard loans but cross referring that excel spreadsheet with the summary information 
Shelby gave in its FRL and in its submissions to us, then I can see it had noted he had had taken 
short term loans. One example is at the loan 2 application, the details show that Mr R had taken £719 
- effectively  between taking loan 1 and applying for loan 2. 
Loan 1
Dealing with each loan in turn, at loan 1, it was for £150 and Mr R was a new customer. The loan term 
was for 6 months and the repayments were relatively modest. Shelby did not need to do a credit 
search but having done one then the results would need to have been factored into the 
creditworthiness assessment required of it.  
I have taken time to analyse those credit search results and in August 2020 (loan 1) Mr R had six 
loans for which the monthly repayments looked to have been £406. Mr R had one credit card which 
had a balance of £180 on a £200 limit which Id not consider particularly high. He had an overdraft on 
one of his four bank accounts and he had a telephone contract. 
Mr R may say that he had an overdraft on another current account but that debt has not registered 
with this CRA. I must proceed on what Shelby obtained and relied on. 
With Mr Rs declared income of £2,400 after tax and outgoings of £880 (which Shelby increased to 
£1,008) plus the loan 1 repayments Id not consider that Shelby lent irresponsibly at loan 1. The 
repayments were around £47 and for a short time. I do not plan to uphold the complaint about loan 1.
 
Loan 2
Mr R applied for £500 over a nine month repayment term and Shelby approved £300 for Mr R. Hed 
declared an income of £2,500 and expenditure commitments of £1,015 which Shelby appeared to agree with as it remained unchanged when carrying out its assessment. So, Mr Rs disposable 
income would have looked to have been high.
Turning to the CRA results which I have reviewed in detail, Mr R had three open loans plus an open 
instalment loan all for which he had to repay around £270 each month. Mr R now had two credit cards 
for which the balances were not high but hed taken cash advances from them five times in a month 
using his cards which can sometimes be a sign of financial distress. 
Mr Rs overdraft on the account was £2,369 on a limit of £2,950. 
One set of records Shelby has provided about loan 2 shows Mr R had taken £719 in short term loans 
between taking loan 1 and applying for loan 2. I mentioned this earlier in the decision. 
Added to which five loans had closed the month before in November 2020. And the significance of 
those was that Shelby would have been aware of his constant churn of loans over relatively short 
periods. This can be another indication of financial distress and it was more likely than not that these 
were high cost short term loans. Closing five, running three and applying to Shelby for more credit 
would, in my view, have led Shelby to be on notice that there was more going on in Mr Rs financial 
background than he had told them.  
Each of these points alone may not have prompted me to think that Shelby ought to have carried out 
additional checks, but I do think that it should have when considering all these together. 
However, I had no bank account statements and so I asked Mr R for copies. Mr R replied to say he 
used three bank accounts at the time, he sent me copies and they showed me:
Bank A - in December 2020 Mr R had a balance of £6.28
Bank B  for the period October 2020 and up to 9 November 2020 -  Mr R was transferring 
money into it from another account regularly and there were international transactions but its 
not clear what they were for. They were to a country outside Europe. On 9 November 2020 
the balance was £0. For most of the later part of November 2020 the bank statements 
showed Mr R was making online betting and gambling transactions and one example was on 
30 November 2020 Mr R spent around £260.  
Bank C  into this account Mr Rs salary was paid and I can see it was around £2,577 after 
tax. The transactions on that account for 3 November 2020 to 2 December 2020 show me 
that Mr R had a credit facility on which he regularly drew-down funds and had to repay them 
regularly too. Mr R was also paying at least four other high-cost loan debts and there were 
many transactions abroad. Theres evidence of multiple betting and gaming transactions 
many of which appear to be international transactions. 
Mr R was permanently in his overdraft on this account which had an overdraft limit of £2,950. 
In the circumstances, I consider that Mr R has provided evidence of what Shelby would have likely 
seen if it had looked into his finances further and Shelby would have appreciated the international 
transactions (likely gambling) the clear gambling and gaming transactions plus the multiple other loan 
repayments. 
I plan to uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3
In May 2022 Mr R applied for a £250 loan repayable over six months. 
Despite the break in the loan chain, Shelby did an additional check which it was not required to do  it 
obtained a credit search and having got that I do not think it can fail to have noticed that Mr R did 
have six outstanding loans, an overdraft on at least one account and five credit cards. These were at 
their limits and one exceeded its limit. Mr Rs overdraft was £2,911 on a limit of £2,950. 
The total to repay on the six loans was £932 for the month up-coming which included two payday 
loans costing Mr R £334 and £300 according to the CRA records Ive been sent. Plus, Mr R had five credit cards with a total balance of £2,736 which at 5% minimum repayment would 
have been around £137 each month and that would not reduce the principal owed by very much. That 
plus his telephone cost likely would have taken his monthly credit repayments to over £1,069. Mr R 
had declared his income after tax to have been £2,800. Then Mr Rs repayment on loan 3 was due to 
have been just under £83 and so that would have meant 41% of his monthly salary was due to be 
taken up solely with credit commitments. That is relatively high in my view.  
That CRA search for the loan 3 application showed a marked increase in the number of accounts and 
credit commitments Mr R had and he was due to pay over £1,150 (including loan 3) in servicing all 
these. Mr R had an overdraft on one account as well. 
And even if Shelby had viewed this loan 3 CRA check in isolation from the rest then this CRA check 
showed a high level of commitment to multiple lenders and that 41% of his income was going to be 
needed to service them all plus the Shelby loan 3. 
Shelby did increase Mr Rs overall expenditure using the information it had on the credit searches plus 
using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to £1,966 at loan 3. Still on those figures the Shelby 
loan would have looked affordable. And I have considered this part of Mr Rs complaint very carefully 
as I cant ignore that the loan applied for was £250 which is a low sum and for a six month loan term. 
Mr R had said it was for medical/dental.
But my concern arises in relation to Mr Rs indebtedness overall before loan 3 was approved about 
which Shelby was aware from its credit checks. And I doubt that Mr R was able to repay the £83 a 
month  on top of all his other commitments  sustainably. 
I think that Shelby had enough evidence for it to have seen the over-indebtedness Mr R was in 
without needing to view bank statements. And I am conscious that the loan application was for £250 
and so normally Id not advocate that a lender would need to ask for them.
However, as I had asked for the bank statements for the period covering the two months leading up to 
Mr R applying for loan 2, I also asked for them for the period leading up to loan 3. So, I have reviewed 
them and they demonstrate to me that the gambling transactions had increased a lot on Bank 
account A. On Bank account C Mr R on 11 and 12 May 2022 paid back at least seven high cost loan 
debts plus made multiple betting transactions. 
Had Shelby seen any of these accounts it wouldnt have concluded that Mr R could afford the loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner. 
I plan to uphold the complaint about loan 3. 
How did the parties respond to the provisional decision?
Shelby replied to say that it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr R was content with the 
outcome as well and had emailed and had telephoned to speak to our current adjudicator.
As both parties agree then I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and those 
are repeated here and form part of the final decision.
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Rs complaint about loans 2 and 3. Shelby needs to put 
things right for those two loans. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr R from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr R in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Shelbys liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Shelby needs to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Rs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Shelby to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and I direct that Shelby Finance Ltd, 
trading as Dot Dot Loans, does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of the 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman