DRN-3168269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are not happy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) has 
dealt with their claim for escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out home insurance with RSA in October 2020. Their policy covered 
escape of water and included trace and access.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs M contacted RSA and made a claim on their buildings policy. 
They reported an intermittent leak coming from their first floor bathroom which had caused 
damage to the living room ceiling below. They obtained a report from a plumber which they 
sent to RSA along with a quote for the cost of repairs. The plumber found no obvious cause 
of the leak and said that the shower and flooring would need to be removed in order to 
access the pipes. He estimated the cost of the trace and access and repair to the ceiling to 
be £3,470 plus VAT.
RSA asked Mr and Mrs M to identify the source of the leak before it could confirm whether 
their claim was covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs M wanted RSA to confirm cover before 
they instructed their plumber. They wanted to ensure that the leak could be traced, repaired 
and reinstatement work carried out in a single visit. RSA said they needed to know the 
source of the leak before it could confirm cover.
Mr and Mrs M were not happy with this and complained to RSA. They said they had asked a 
question about completing all work in one visit but had not received a satisfactory reply. RSA 
did not uphold the complaint. It referred to its terms and conditions and said that it needed to 
know where the leak was coming from before it could agree to cover the work. 
As Mr and Mrs M were not happy with RSAs response, they brought their complaint to us. 
They want RSA to agree that their plumber can carry out all the work in one visit and that 
RSA will cover the cost. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He didnt think it was unreasonable for RSA to want to confirm the source 
of the leak before authorising repair work. He also thought that RSA had been clear about its 
position. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or rebuilding a house if its damaged or 
destroyed due to a type of unforeseen event  often referred to as an insured event. Not all 
damage to a building will be covered and the onus is on the customer to show that an 
insured event most likely caused the damage. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms buildings policy, an escape of water is an insured event. The 
policy says that cover includes damage caused to the building by water escaping from 
washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating systems. The policy doesnt 
cover Damage to the appliance or system which the water escapes from. 
Not all damage caused by an escape of water is covered. Cover is only provided if the water 
escapes from one of the sources stated in the policy. The policy makes it clear that it doesnt 
cover damage to the water system itself  only any damage caused by the water after it 
leaked. As is usual with most building insurance. the policy also contains exclusions. These 
are causes of damage that will not be covered.
The policy includes trace and access which can be used to find the source of a water leak. 
The policy says if its necessary to remove and replace any part of your buildings to find the 
source of a water or oil leak from a heating or water system, well pay the cost. It provides 
an example of removing and replacing flooring to trace and gain access to a leaking pipe. 
Again, repairing the source of the leak is not covered unless it was caused by an insured 
event. I note that RSA asked Mr and Mrs M to arrange for their plumber to carry out the trace 
and access.
Bearing the above in mind, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to want to know the 
source of the leak before agreeing to cover all the costs. Under the terms of the policy RSA 
need to be sure that the damage is caused by an insured event. Without knowing where the 
leak is coming from, it cant commit to covering the cost of any damage caused. 
Its also important to remember that RSA are not responsible for repairing the leak itself  
just the damage caused by it. I note that Mr and Mrs Ms plumber has quoted for trace and 
access and reinstatement only, not the cost of any repairs to the leak.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms position. They want reassurance from RSA that it will cover all 
the work and the quoted costs upfront in order to avoid delay and to minimise disruption 
once the work begins. However, Mr and Mrs M will need to get the work done whether or not 
its covered under the policy - and I dont think its fair for RSA to have to commit to paying 
for the work before establishing whether the leak is covered. RSA wont know what might be 
found by the plumber once the floor is taken up. So I think its fair for RSA to have the 
opportunity of approving any work and the costs before its carried out.  
Mr and Mrs M also say that they asked RSA to confirm whether they need to wait for the 
source of the leak to be approved before their plumber can reinstate the bathroom. They 
didnt think that this question had been answered. However, I think RSAs position is clear  
it cant confirm that cover is in place until it receives a report from the plumber confirming the 
source of the leak. 
Im aware that our investigator tried to get things moving for Mr and Mrs M by suggesting to 
RSA that it arranges its own trace and access. However, due to delays with their contractors 
RSA thought that it would be quicker for Mr and Mrs M to organise trace and access 
themselves. 
I know that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs M wanted, but I dont think that RSA 
have done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman