DRN-2619402
The complaint
Ms H complained about the amount of compensation paid to her by Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC, trading as Tesco Bank. Ms Hs then-husband carried out a fraud, and Tesco paid Ms H 
£250. Ms H wants £30,000.
What happened
On 4 December 2016, a Tesco credit card was opened in Ms Hs maiden name of Ms W. It 
had a credit limit of £6,400. The postal address was her parents address, and the email 
address was in the name of Ms Hs then husband Mr H.  Tesco conducted a credit and 
identity check. This confirmed Ms Ws full name and date of birth, and that she lived at the 
stated address. It also confirmed there were no Indicators of possible ID fraud such as fraud 
prevention markers.
On 19 December 2016, there was a £6,050 balance transfer onto the new Tesco credit card. 
The name on the credit card with the other bank was Ms W. On 13 December 2017, there 
was a £3,800 balance transfer out of the Tesco account, to an account elsewhere in the 
name of Ms W. In September 2018, the Tesco account reached a nil balance.
In April 2019, Tesco increased the credit limit to £11,400. On 6 June there was a £10,830 
balance transfer onto the Tesco card, and another for £3,083 on 25 June.
On 19 August 2019, Ms H wrote to Tesco with a complaint. She explained that shed split up 
from her husband in February and had moved to a different address. She said her husband 
had then made threats that hed transfer a credit card debt into a card in her name. Ms H 
said shed phoned Tesco three times to tell them about her husbands threats, and that 
Tesco had told her there was nothing in either her married name Mrs H or her maiden name 
Ms W. But her husband then told her that there was a £14,000 debt with Tesco, in her name. 
In her complaint letter Ms H said that Mr H had opened the Tesco account in her name some 
years ago, then transferred debt to it  and she said this would never have happened if 
Tescos systems had been as they should be.  
Ms H said Tesco  must reverse this illegal transaction immediately and delete any negative 
information from my credit record. You must also delete the account itself I feel it 
necessary that you also provide extra compensation.
In its reply on 9 September, Tesco said it hadnt found detail of the first three calls which Ms 
H said shed made, but said it could only assume that when she rang, Tescos staff would 
have looked at Ms Hs current details. The disputed account had been open in her maiden 
name for a long time. Tesco said it did have a record that Ms H had phoned on 12 August, to 
ask if there was an account in her name. Ms H had provided the account number, saying her 
ex-husband had given her information about a late payment fee in her name. Tesco had said 
it would investigate and would need more details from Ms H. The account was put on a 
security hold and sent to its fraud investigation team. Tesco refunded late payment and over 
limit fees, and £173.84 of interest, and put a three month interest fee waiver on the account. 
It also paid Ms H £50 compensation.
During this time, arrears and default letters continued to be sent to Ms H, because Tesco 
was legally required to send these.
Ms H replied to Tescos letter on 24 September, saying Tescos investigative skills were 
clearly not up to scratch, and the points in its letter were pointless. She said her husband 
had controlled everything moneywise and theyd had joint accounts. Her husband had had 
a stack load of debt that I was not involved with so if I did see this I would just have thought 
that it was his direct debit. Ms H said that £50 compensation was utterly disgraceful, 
insulting and laughable. I require substantially more compensation so youd best rethink 
your £50  on a big scale.  
On 9 October, Tesco replied saying its fraud investigation team was still investigating. It 
noted that in a call between Ms H and the fraud team, its adviser had told Ms H that Tesco 
needed to be clear whether the allegation was that the account had been fraudulent since 
opening, or whether it was the recent transactions which were fraudulent. And Ms H had told 
the adviser shed leave the investigation on hold while she contacted one of the other 
lenders involved.
Ms H complained further in her reply. She agreed shed decided to leave the investigation 
where it was when she spoke to Tescos adviser. But she said the Tesco adviser had bullied 
her to change her story. She said the adviser had insinuated that because shed been living 
with her husband when the account had been opened, she could have accessed the email 
account which had been used to open the account. And payments had been made from Ms 
H and her then husbands joint account. Ms H said that meant nothing, and Tescos 
customer service and complaint handling had been lawbreaking. 
In December 2019, Ms Hs ex-husband appeared in court and pleaded guilty to fraud. 
Tescos fraud team received confirmation from the police, and on 20 January 2020 phoned 
Ms H and confirmed she wouldnt be held liable for the account. It told her that her credit file 
would be updated, and it explained that it had added a marker on the anti-fraud database 
CIFAS to protect her, so that any future creditors would know Ms H had been a victim of 
fraud by impersonation. The fraud team passed this to Tescos complaints team, who wrote 
to Ms H on 25 February and arranged for a cheque for £250 compensation to be sent to Ms 
H.
On 5 March Ms H replied to Tesco with a long list of what she said was Tescos malpractice. 
She said she wanted £30,000 compensation.
Tesco didnt agree so Ms H complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Hs complaint. He explained that hed asked Tesco why the fraud 
investigation took such a long time. It had said that it had quickly come to the conclusion that 
the June 2019 balance transfers onto the account had been fraudulent, because theyd 
come from accounts in Ms Hs ex-husbands name. But Tesco had said it hadnt been able 
to conclude there was sufficient proof of fraud from the account opening in 2016 until 2019. 
The account had been set up in Ms Hs maiden name at her parents address, to which 
account post would regularly have been sent. And payments to the account had come from 
a joint account in Mrs Hs and her husbands name. So Tesco said it needed more 
information from the police investigation to determine if it could accept the whole history of 
the account as fraudulent.
The investigator didnt think having a contact email address in a different name from the 
account holder should have made Tesco suspicious about the account when it was opened. 
And the checks carried out at the time had verified Ms H was living there, and that her date 
of birth and full name were correct. But the investigator saw that Tesco had turned down a loan application in June 2019, which 
Tesco subsequently recorded on anti-fraud databases against Mr H. He said that Tesco 
should have told Ms H about this, and monitored the existing credit card in her name. The 
investigator also explained that it wasnt clear what had been on the forms sent by the other 
bank which had transferred the balances to Ms H in June 2019. But he thought that, 
because of the fraudulent loan application, Tesco should have checked both June balance 
transfers with Ms H before going ahead with them. He said this could have prevented the 
£14,000 balance transfers taking place. 
The investigator also thought Tesco should have split the investigation into two, dealing with 
the 2019 balance transfers first and writing them off, because this could be done quickly. 
Then they could have done the investigation into whether or not the original application had 
been fraudulent afterwards. He said that would have meant that the £14,000 balance 
transfers wouldnt have been held against Ms Hs name from June 2019 to February 2020.
The investigator considered Tesco should pay Ms H a total of £1,250 compensation.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that the investigator had taken his decision with the benefit of 
hindsight. It pointed out that it had been in touch with the police from an early stage. The 
police had told Tesco that Mr H had denied allegations against him and the police didnt 
think they had enough evidence to prove fraud. So Tesco said it was unreasonable of the 
investigator to say it should have written off the £14,000 when the police had more powers of 
investigation than a bank. The police investigation had still been open at that time. And 
Tesco pointed out that it wouldnt have been right to have written off the £14,000 as fraud by 
Mr H, putting fraud markers against his name, if it then transpired that the police didnt 
proceed against Mr H or hed been proved innocent. Tesco argued that it was a dangerous 
precedent to act prior to the conclusion of a police investigation.
Tesco also didnt agree that it should have stopped the balance transfers in June 2019. It 
pointed out that the £10,830 transfer had already happened before the loan application was 
turned down on 10 June. And it pointed out that there hadnt been any fraud trends on Ms 
Hs existing credit card, so it wouldnt necessarily have triggered a stop on the separate 
card.
Tesco felt that £1,250 compensation was completely out of line with compensation this 
service had awarded for similar cases. Five months from August 2019 to January 2020 
wasnt unreasonable for a fraud investigation. Tesco said that it felt its compensation was 
very generous when it had upheld the complaint for what was a minor servicing error. It 
asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I recognised that Ms H was upset by the fraud, and it was clear 
from the correspondence that she was extremely angry with Tesco. In any fraud, its the 
fraudster who causes the trouble and is primarily responsible. I explained that my job is to 
decide whether Tesco added to Ms Hs upset by its actions, and whether or not it acted fairly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Early years of the credit cardI found that there was nothing about the original opening of the credit card which should 
have alerted Tesco to any potential fraud. Tesco checked details for the name in which the 
account was opened, which was in Ms Hs maiden name of Ms W. These included full name, 
date of birth, and that someone of that name lived at the address on the application. There 
was also a check for any fraud markers. 
Looking at the history of the account from December 2016 onwards, there was again nothing 
to indicate that the application had been fraudulently made by anyone else in the name of 
Ms W. The balance which was transferred onto the Tesco card in December 2016 came 
from an account in Ms Ws name. And the December 2017 balance transfer out from Tesco 
went to an external account in Ms Ws name.
The pattern of spending on the credit card was different from that usually seen on a 
fraudulently opened account. Normally a fraudster will maximise borrowing immediately, in 
case the fraud is discovered. That wasnt the pattern on this account.
The linked bank account from which payments were made to the credit card was a joint 
account in the names of Ms W and Mr H. The email address was in Mr Hs name and I didnt 
consider that was suspicious. Statements would have been available for that joint bank 
account, which Ms H could have checked, so she could have seen payments going out to 
the Tesco credit card in her maiden name. 
Events from mid 2019 onwards
On 10 June 2019, Tesco turned down a loan application in the joint names of Mr H and Ms 
H. This was in Ms Hs married name, whereas the card was in Ms Hs maiden name of Ms 
W. I asked Tesco for more information about this loan application, to help me determine 
whether Tesco should have:
- notified Ms H about the attempted fraudulent opening of a loan in her name at that 
point; and/or 
- stopped the Tesco credit card and prevented the balance transfers being debited to 
the Tesco card.
Tesco replied that the loan application had been submitted in joint names of Mr H and Ms H. 
It had been automatically declined for standard reasons, not for suspected fraud. It hadnt 
been until Ms H contacted Tesco in July 2019 that it had reviewed both the credit card, and 
the loan application, for possible fraud. I accept this. 
The first of the two June 2019 balance transfers, for £10,830, went through on 6 June, 
before the loan application was turned down as fraudulent on 10 June. So even if there had 
been anything to flag possible fraud about the loan application, the first transfer couldnt 
have been stopped anyway, because it had already gone through. 
I also accepted that there had been nothing indicating fraud on the separate credit card 
which had been running for some years. Such checks are carried out by computer systems, 
and there wouldnt necessarily have been any way for a computer to have linked a loan 
application in Ms Hs married name with the existing credit card in her maiden name of Ms 
W. 
Time taken to investigate
Theres a dispute about exactly when Ms H first contacted Tesco to report her suspicions. As 
Ive set out above, Ms H said shed phoned Tesco three times in summer 2019, and had 
been told there were no accounts in her name. Tesco said it had no record of these calls, until the 12 August call where Ms H provided an account number. In practical terms, it 
makes very little difference to what happened, because the balances had been transferred 
by the time of any of the calls. By August 2019, Tesco was aware of Ms Hs allegations and 
started to investigate.
I found that the 2019 elements of Ms Hs complaint were easier to identify as fraud by Mr H. 
And if Ms Hs complaint had been solely about what happened in 2019, I thought it was likely 
that the issue would have been resolved much more quickly. But Ms Hs statement that the 
whole account had been fraudulently opened in her name in 2016 made the situation much 
less clear. As Ive set out above;
- the balance transfer into the account in her maiden name of Ms W  had come from 
an account in Ms Ws name;
- the balance transfer out of the account had gone to an account in the name of Ms W;
- there was a linked joint bank account from which payments had been made to the 
credit card, and Ms W was party to that joint account. 
I considered whether Tesco should have dealt with the 2019 part of the account separately 
from the account as a whole. I didnt see any reason why it had to divide the investigation in 
this way. Ms H had complained that the account as a whole had been opened fraudulently, 
and I didnt consider there was any obligation for a bank to pick out parts of a complaint and 
deal with them separately. The issue was confused by the fact that Ms H wasnt just 
complaining about the 2019 events.
In practice, the investigation was linked to that of the police, and I accepted that the police 
didnt initially think they had sufficient evidence to prosecute on the initial application having 
been fraudulent. Banks do normally take their own decisions based on the evidence, but 
here there was an open police investigation. And I entirely agreed with Tescos argument 
that it wouldnt have been right to take action to write off the £14,000 balance, and decide 
that Mr H was guilty and put fraud markers against his name, before the police investigation 
and court processes had concluded.
The court case took place in December 2019 and after Tesco had been officially notified of 
the outcome by the police in January 2020, it phoned Ms H to tell her she wouldnt be held 
liable; that her credit file would be updated; and that a protective marker had been placed on 
the anti-fraud database. I found that this was an acceptable timescale that was proportionate 
to the unique circumstances here. 
Compensation
When considering compensation, we look at it in two parts: financial loss, and compensation 
for trouble and upset. 
Here, its fortunate that Ms H didnt suffer any financial loss, because she wasnt held liable 
for the account and the fraudulent £14,000 balance transfers. She also hadnt provided any 
evidence to show that she suffered any financial loss as a result of the arrears and default 
notices on the account which marked her credit file during the investigation. In any case, 
banks have to record accurate credit file information about accounts, so Tesco didnt have a 
choice and could only amend Ms Hs credit file after its investigation had found fraud. So I 
found there was no financial loss.
I looked closely at compensation for trouble and upset. I noted that Ms H said she took time 
off work because of the effects of the situation, but I looked at whether Tesco was 
responsible for any of that upset.  I found that the time taken for Tesco to investigate between August 2019 and February 2020 
was reasonable in view of the police investigation, and the fact that the evidence was very 
mixed about the fraud allegations before mid 2019. And I didnt consider Tesco was obliged 
to split its investigation into different parts.
Tesco didnt find a record of Ms H phoning in summer 2019 to ask whether there were any 
accounts in her name. It said that it could only assume that its call handlers hadnt looked 
in Ms Hs maiden name of Ms W, and awarded £50 compensation for this. I considered this 
was fair, especially as there wasnt detailed evidence about dates and times when Ms H 
rang and who she spoke to.
Tesco also sent Ms H a further cheque for £250, when the investigation concluded. This was 
in response to Ms Hs complaint about the incredibly insensitive / disgraceful service I have 
received. I suggest you think very carefully before you send me any sort of response. I 
didnt agree that Tescos service had been insensitive or disgraceful. Tesco kept Ms H 
updated, stopped collection processes, and waived interest and charges on the card. The 
letters it did send, about the default and arrears, were letters which it was legally obliged to 
send.  
Ms H objected that one of Tescos advisers suggested she might have had access to her 
husbands email address when they were still living together. And she said the adviser 
threatened her by saying that there had been payments made from their joint account. I 
didnt consider that either of these questions from Tescos fraud team constituted a threat. 
Clearly it would have been better for Ms H if the fraud allegation she reported in August 2019 
had been resolved before February 2020. But that was linked to the police and court 
processes, and ultimately the cause of Ms Hs distress was the fraudster, not those who 
were investigating it. I found no significant Tesco failures of process or customer service 
towards Ms H and I found the compensation already sent to Ms H was more than fair. So my 
provisional decision was that I didnt require Tesco to do anything more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision.
Ms H didnt reply by the date set for responses. We emailed again, providing a short 
extension, but Ms H still didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman