DRN-4377133
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled her 
request for help with a dispute she had about accommodation she paid for using her Halifax 
debit card. 
What happened
In January 2023 Miss S bought accommodation from a hotel Ill call B using her Halifax debit 
card. She paid £2,779.13 for six nights in April 2023. 
Miss S said that when she arrived at the hotel there were a number of problems. She said 
some of the facilities that B advertised on its website such as a spa and pool were not 
available, there was nowhere to park her car, there were no lifts, the hotel was not within 
walking distance to the beach and was in the mountains, and the bed was too small. 
Miss S said she was unable to resolve things with B, so she left the hotel and paid for 
alternative accommodation. 
Upon her return to the UK Miss S said she emailed B about all of her concerns, but it didnt 
provide a substantive response. 
Miss S asked Halifax to step in and help her get a refund. Halifax temporarily refunded Miss 
S pending the outcome of an investigation. 
Halifax said it tried to help Miss S by raising what is known as a chargeback (a method of 
recovering funds paid to a supplier in certain situations). It said B defended the chargeback 
and in support of its defence provided evidence the booking was non-refundable and that the 
service was as described. 
Halifax didnt think this evidence rebutted Miss Ss claims, so it re-attempted the chargeback. 
B defended it again, this time providing even more evidence and photographs. Based on that 
evidence, Halifax didnt think the chargeback would have succeeded if it had pursued it any 
further. So, it sent the evidence to Miss S, asked her for any further comments and 
explained it was going to end its pursuit of the refund from B and re-debit her account with 
the cost of the accommodation. 
Dissatisfied with this position, Miss S referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator didnt think Halifax should pay the refund to Miss S. He said that based on 
the available evidence, he didnt think Halifax had treated Miss S unfairly by ending its 
pursuit of the chargeback. 
Miss S disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said in summary:
The pictures B provided in its defence of the chargeback had been lifted from its 
website and didnt show what she actually received upon arrival at the hotel. 
Other guests at the hotel had contacted her to say they had been misled about the 
hotel also
She had provided evidence she stayed at another hotel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking here at the actions of Halifax and the way it handled Miss Ss request for help 
getting her money back. Miss S paid for the accommodation using her debit card and theres 
no suggestion that payment was taken fraudulently (in the sense Miss S didnt consent to it). 
So, the only realistic way that Halifax could have got Miss Ss money back from B was via a 
process known as chargeback. 
In certain circumstances this process provides a way for a bank to ask for a payment its 
customer made to a supplier to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute 
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. 
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there 
is some prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be 
appropriate for the bank to raise one. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Once a chargeback is raised the supplier is given an opportunity to defend it and provide 
evidence in support of its position. The bank can either accept the defence or continue to 
pursue the chargeback. If the parties cannot agree then the bank can ask the card scheme 
to decide who gets to keep the money. 
An important consideration in this case therefore is whether Halifaxs decision to end its 
pursuit of the chargeback once it had been defended by B for the second time was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at the relevant dispute code for this situation which is not as described or 
defective goods/services. This set out that a chargeback could be raised where the 
merchandise or services did not match what was described or where the cardholder disputes 
the quality of the merchandise or services received  as Miss S alleged was the case here.
It also set out that Miss S must provide, amongst other things an explanation of what was 
not as described or defective or information regarding the quality-related issue. 
As far as I can see Miss S provided such an explanation when she contacted Halifax. 
On the face of it Miss S met the conditions for a chargeback and Halifax rightly raised one. 
Whether it was appropriate to raise one for the entire amount Miss S paid to B is debatable if 
she made use of the services at all. However, I dont think this impacts matters in this case 
for reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The rules set out that in response to a chargeback a supplier or its merchant acquirer was 
required to provide evidence that amongst other things, the merchandise or service matched 
what was described (including the description of the quality of the merchandise or service) or 
was not damaged or defective and, the suppliers rebuttal to Miss Ss claims. 
Bs second defence to the chargeback contained a number of rebuttals to Miss Ss claims. It said the location of the hotel would have been clear on its website (which it provided a 
snapshot of), the room was as described on its website, and the spa and swimming pool 
were present. B included a number of photographs which it said supported its rebuttals 
including pictures of the spa, swimming pool and the view from one of its rooms. 
I agree with Miss S that some of these appear to have been lifted from Bs website, rather 
than depicting the actual room Miss S was staying in. However even if it could be argued 
that some of this evidence was weak, I remind myself that arbitration was the only stage of 
the process left for Halifax to pursue the case to. And Ive not seen enough to make me think 
on the balance of probabilities that Miss Ss description of the alleged 
defects/misdescriptions would have been more persuasive in the card schemes eyes such 
that it would have found in her favour should the case have been pursued to that stage. 
For example, although Miss S had provided evidence she purchased alternative 
accommodation, it doesnt appear that she had provided any photographs in support of her 
claims about her room  despite having been made aware of Bs rebuttals by Halifax and 
having been provided the opportunity to submit further evidence. So, it seems unlikely she 
could have rebutted the defence B had provided. 
And while she had been contacted by another guest to say the hotel wasnt as they expected 
either, again Im not persuaded this would have carried sufficient weight with the card 
scheme such that it would have turned the case in Miss Ss favour. 
Overall, Ive not seen enough to make me think that Halifax treated Miss S unfairly. It had re-
attempted the chargeback when B originally defended it with weaker evidence. But once B 
defended the chargeback on the second attempt with more evidence (and having been 
armed with no further persuasive evidence to rebut that defence), I dont think it 
unreasonably concluded the chargeback had no further prospects of success. Its not clear 
enough the chargeback would have succeeded if Halifax had pursued it further and taken 
the case to the card schemes arbitration process. 
I know Miss S thinks this is unfair. Im not saying that B didnt treat Miss S unfairly by not 
giving any of her money back. However, I dont think Halifax is responsible for paying the 
refund to Miss S in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on the available evidence, Im 
not persuaded it would have been able to recover the money from B via chargeback. And 
this was the only realistic way that Halifax could have recovered it in this case.  
Miss S has explained she will have difficulty repaying the sum now and is overdrawn by a 
considerable amount. Halifax should ensure it treats Miss S with forbearance and due 
consideration in respect of any problems she may have repaying the overdraft  keeping in 
mind also what she has told it about her health.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman