DRN-4409571
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit card 
application he made and later increased the credit limit on several occasions. 
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card with Vanquis in December 2016. In his application, Mr W said 
he was employed with an income of £50,000 a year. Vanquis carried out a credit search and 
found Mr W had a default balance and County Court Judgement that were almost six years 
old at the point of application. Vanquis didnt find any outstanding credit in Mr Ws name. 
Vanquis approved a credit card with a limit of £500. 
Vanquis went on to increase Mr Ws credit limit to £1,000 in June 2017, £1,750 in December 
2017, £2,500 in March 2019 and £3,500 in September 2019. Vanquis says that each time it 
increased Mr Ws credit limit it checked his credit file and found he didnt have any new 
borrowing with other lenders. In addition, Vanquis says it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment to get a better picture of Mr Ws circumstances in March and 
September 2019, before approving the credit limit increases. 
Mr W repaid the outstanding balance in full in February 2021 and hasnt used the account 
since. 
Earlier this year, representatives acting for Mr W complained that Vanquis had lent 
irresponsibly. The representatives pointed out Mr W had used his credit card for multiple 
cash withdrawals and that the balance had exceeded the credit limit on multiple occasions, 
with one payment being missed. 
Mr Ws complaint was submitted to this service and passed to an investigator. The 
investigator looked at Vanquis lending decisions. They thought Vanquis had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Mr Ws credit card application and 
increasing the credit limit to £1,000 in June 2017. But the investigator thought Vanquis 
shouldve done more to check Mr Ws circumstances when increasing the credit limit from 
December 2017 to September 2019, when it reached £3,500. 
The investigator asked Mr Ws representatives to supply bank statements for the period 
before each credit limit increase. But Mr Ws representatives advised no bank statements 
were available. A full copy of Mr Ws credit file was supplied. 
The investigator said that as no evidence of what Vanquis wouldve found if it had reviewed 
Mr Ws statements was available, theyd based their findings on the information on file. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded that the available information showed Vanquis had lent 
irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr Ws representatives asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Ive reviewed the available information and I agree with the investigator that the checks 
Vanquis completed when looking at Mr Ws application in December 2016 and increasing 
the credit limit to £1,000 in June 2017 were proportionate. Whilst I can see Vanquis found 
some historic adverse credit when it carried out a search on Mr W, it was almost six years 
old at the point of application. And I note Mr W had no other debts. In my view Mr Ws credit 
card application and first credit limit were fairly approved and I havent seen anything that 
shows Vanquis lent irresponsibly. 
Mr Ws credit limit was increased in stages from December 2017 to September 2019 when it 
reached £3,500. As Mr Ws representatives highlighted, there were various occasions when 
Mr Ws balance exceeded the credit limit and he used his credit card for multiple cash 
withdrawals. I agree that account activity of that nature may be a sign of financial difficulty 
and shouldve caused Vanquis to carry out more comprehensive checks. 
I can see our investigator asked for bank statements so we could get a better understanding 
of Mr Ws circumstances at the times Vanquis increased his credit limit but none have been 
supplied. So Ive been unable to say what Vanquis wouldve seen if it had asked Mr W for 
bank statements before it increased his credit limit. But we cant uphold a complaint solely 
on the basis that a business ought to have carried out better checks. I have to consider all 
the available evidence on file when reaching a decision. 
Ive looked at the credit file Mr Ws representatives have provided. Whilst I can see that Mr 
W did go on to obtain various loans and accounts that increased the level of debt, all the 
other accounts on his credit file were opened after the final credit limit increase from 
Vanquis. And whilst I can see there were instances where Mr Ws balance exceeded the 
credit limit and that he used his credit card to obtain cash, the account was well managed 
overall. Mr W missed a payment early in his relationship with Vanquis, but when he spoke 
with it confirmed the issue was caused by a change in employment and it was made up. 
There were no other missed payments. I can see that in March 2019 and December 2019 
Vanquis also completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W to get a better 
picture of his circumstances. I also think its fair to note that Mr W went on to clear his 
outstanding balance with Vanquis in full in February 2021. 
Based on all the information available, I havent seen clear signs that Mr Ws Vanquis credit 
card was irresponsibly approved. And Im satisfied that whilst Vanquis ought to have carried 
out more comprehensive checks during the period it was increasing Mr Ws credit limit, the 
information available doesnt show it lent irresponsibly. In my view, Vanquis reasonably 
approved Mr Ws credit card and increased his credit limit. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but as I havent been persuaded Vanquis lent irresponsibly, Im 
not upholding his complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman