DRN-3898908
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale 
Bank) responded to a claim she made to it about a purchase on her Clydesdale Bank credit 
card.
What happened
Mrs K paid for flight tickets from a travel company (the supplier) using her Clydesdale Bank 
credit card. However, because of the global Covid-19 pandemic the flights were cancelled.
As a resolution the supplier provided a credit voucher towards future flights with the airline. 
However, when Mrs Ks family wished to use the vouchers the airline had not resumed 
flights on the route they wanted.
Mrs K was unable to get a refund from the supplier, so she approached Clydesdale Bank to 
raise a dispute.
Clydesdale looked at things in respect of the applicable chargeback scheme and Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). However, it declined the claim and issued a 
letter to Mrs K to explain this.
Mrs K complained to Clydesdale Bank about the outcome of the claim, but it would not 
change its position. So this service looked into the complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold the case. In summary, she said that:
there was no valid chargeback for the cancelled flights because a reasonable 
alternative had been accepted; and
the technical requirements were not in place for Mrs K to have a valid Section 75 
claim against Clydesdale Bank for what had happened.
Mrs K was not happy with this outcome and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear what happened with Mrs Ks family having their flights cancelled due to 
the events surrounding the global pandemic. However, when considering what Clydesdale 
Bank should fairly do to resolve matters, I consider its specific obligations as a provider of 
financial services. Clydesdale Bank is not a supplier of the flights so in considering what is 
fair and reasonable for it to do I have focused on the relevant card protections  in this case 
these are chargeback and Section 75.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mrs K to make a like claim against 
Clydesdale Bank for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by her credit 
card in respect of an agreement it has with her for the provision of goods or services.
Certain criteria need to be met in order that Section 75 will apply in any given circumstance.
This includes that Mrs K as the debtor who has the credit card agreement with Clydesdale 
Bank also has a contractual agreement with the supplier of the goods or services in 
question. 
I have looked at the evidence available including the booking documentation to determine 
who is contracting with the supplier. I note that although Mrs K paid for the flights it is her 
family members who booked and are named as passengers on the flight. Based on this and 
the relevant contractual terms with the supplier I think it is Mrs Ks family members who have 
a contractual agreement with the supplier (with any adult family members contracting on 
behalf of children) and not Mrs K.
I have carefully considered if there is some kind of joint agreement here involving Mrs K. But 
I dont see any basis for that here. Mrs K is not named as a booker or due to receive any of 
the travel services. She simply provided the means to pay for said booking. 
 
Because I am not satisfied that Mrs K made a contractual agreement with the supplier for the 
provision of the services I dont think she has a valid Section 75 claim against Clydesdale for 
the issues with the ticket purchase. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say 
that Clydesdale should have done more in respect of the Section 75 claim here.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which Clydesdale Bank might have been able to 
recover funds for Mrs K. However, Clydesdale Bank is limited by the particular scheme rules 
that apply (in this case Mastercard scheme rules). I have considered the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and supplementary guidance issued around the time of the Covid-
19 pandemic to decide if Clydesdale Bank has treated Mrs K fairly.
In cases where a supplier fails to provide what is agreed, the most appropriate chargeback 
reason is often that relating to goods or services not supplied. However, Mastercard have 
issued clear guidance stating that where the merchant cancels a service but a reasonable 
alternative for future service is accepted the cardholder loses chargeback rights as long as 
the alternative is available to use as originally agreed.
In this case I think it is clear that Mrs K in consultation with her family had accepted the 
future credit that the supplier had offered as a reasonable alternative to a refund. The 
problem arose later on when a rebooking was attempted, and the credit could not be used 
as desired due to the airline not at the time operating a particular route.
I have looked at the information about the voucher credit Mrs K accepted and note that 
particular routes were not guaranteed. In fact the information given to Mrs K at the time was 
quite clear about the terms and restrictions of the alternative. The information notes that the 
credit could be used on future services subject to the particular services that might be 
operating as the travel market recovered and restrictions ease. So I cant fairly conclude that 
the alternative was not available to use as originally agreed by the parties. It appeared that it 
was still valid to use on flights that were operating by the airline at the time  and was still 
available to use to book flights in future up to its expiry date.
Mrs K has indicated she only accepted the alternative being offered and did not seek a 
refund as she wanted to support the airline industry - but has lost out as a result. I appreciate the intention behind Mrs Ks decision to accept what was offered at the time. But the 
chargeback scheme is limited to the particular rules and guidance  and here I dont think 
that Clydesdale Bank in its capacity as finance provider acted wrongly by deciding not to 
pursue a chargeback considering the acceptance of the future flight credit here which limited 
its ability to carry out a successful chargeback under the scheme rules. I think any 
chargeback it did try to proceed with would likely have failed.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs K. However, considering its role as a provider of 
financial services here, and the particular limitations around Section 75 and chargeback I 
dont think it is fair and reasonable to direct Clydesdale Bank to refund Mrs K for what she 
paid on the card for the flights. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman