DRN-3802078
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card with Barclays in 2016. Barclays approved the application and 
gave Mr W a credit card with an initial credit limit of £5000. In July 2017 Barclays increased 
the credit limit to £7500, and in March 2018 Barclays increased the credit limit to £8000.
Mr W complained that Barclays lent irresponsibly. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when the account was opened. But she thought that Barclays had acted irresponsibly when 
it increased Mr Ws credit limit in 2017 and 2018, and said that to put things right, Barclays 
should refund all interest and charges incurred after the credit limit was increased.
Barclays didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulties at the time of the credit limit increase, and that Mr Ws debt to income ratio was 
distorted in March 2018 because two loans overlapped.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind in considering whats fair and reasonable 
here.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Barclays had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could afford to pay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of the credit and the consumes individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Barclays says it looked at the information Mr W provided about his employment status, 
residential status and income. At the time of his application, Mr W declared an annual 
income of £30,000. Barclays says it verified this income and validated his monthly net 
income as £1,957. Barclays also carried out a credit check and found no adverse 
information. From the credit check, Barclays identified that Mr W had unsecured debt of 
around £6,146 (loan) and £87 (mail order). Barclays assessed Mr W as having monthly 
disposable income of around £935 and found the credit card to be affordable for him.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Barclays carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the credit card. I dont think theres anything in the information Barclays 
gathered which wouldve given cause for concern or warranted further checks to be carried 
out.
Credit limit increases July 2017 and March 2018
Barclays says that before each of the credit limit increases, it obtained validation of Mr Ws 
income. It looked at how Mr W had managed the account and carried out a credit check.
The credit check in July 2017 showed that Mr Ws debt had increased from £6,003 to 
£29,158.
The credit check in March 2018 showed that Mr Ws debt had increased from £29,158 to 
£37,100.
Barclays says that it considered the credit limit increase were affordable for Mr W because:
-Mr W had only exceeded the credit limit once when his payment for December 2016 was 
late
-There was no history of missed or late payments
-The account balance was repaid in full in June 2017, November 2017 and November 2018
-The credit searches showed no adverse information
Ive looked at the information Barclays obtained before the credit limit increases to see if 
there were any factors which could have caused concern.
It isnt enough for Barclays to consider whether Mr W would be likely to pay back the 
additional credit, but also the impact this would have on him. Looking at the significant 
increase in Mr Ws debt in July 2017, I think it wouldve been proportionate for Barclays to 
ask for further information in order to get a clearer picture of Mr Ws financial position. I say 
this because such a large increase in Mr Ws debt wouldve impacted on Mr Ws disposable 
income and hence his ability to sustainably repay further credit. In the circumstances, I dont 
think the checks carried out by Barclays before approving the credit limit increase were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Ive also considered whether the checks carried out by Barclays prior to the credit limit 
increase in March 2018 were reasonable and proportionate. I can see that Mr Ws debt had 
increased further by this time.
 Barclays has suggested that Mr Ws debt to income ratio has been distorted here because 
he took out a loan to repay another one. It has also suggested that Mr W mightve taken out 
car finance. I havent seen any evidence to support this, so it wouldnt be fair to conclude 
that the debt to income ratio was affected by these factors.
Based on the information Ive seen, its clear that Mr ws debt to income ratio had increased 
significantly by July 2017. This made it unlikely that he could sustainably repay any further 
borrowing without being caused financial difficulties or incurring further debt. I dont think 
Barclays did enough to determine Mr Ws financial situation in July 2017. The checks werent 
reasonable and proportionate. For this reason, I dont think Barclays acted responsibly when it increased the credit limit in 2017.
Putting things right
Where credit has been provided where it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and 
reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. The 
borrower would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given. 
So Id expect Mr W to pay back the funds he was lent, but not the interest or charges. Id 
also expect Barclays to remove any adverse information it has reported to the credit 
reference agencies about this account.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Find out how much Mr W would have owed when the credit card account was closed had it 
not increased the credit limit to £7500 and remove any interest and charges charged 
because of the increased limit. Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr 
W owed when the account was closed and what would have been owed had the credit limit 
not been increased to £7500. 
Barclays should add simple interest at 8% per year on the difference between what Mr W 
would have owed when the account was closed until he gets the refund.
If -  when Barclays works out what Mr W would have owed each month less the extra 
interest and charges -  Mr W paid more than enough to clear the balance, Barclays should 
pay Mr W simple interest at 8% per year on the extra he paid. It should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr W wouldve owed Barclays something on the credit card.
Barclays should let Mr W know what it has done to work out what sums he should be paid.
If HMRC requires Barclays to take off tax from the refund of interest, Barclays must give Mr 
W a certificate showing how much has bee taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman