DRN-3999247
The complaint
Miss M complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a loss of rent claim against her 
Let Property insurance policy, after her rental property was damaged by a fire. 
Reference to Ageas include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
A property Miss M rented to tenants suffered extensive fire damage in July 2021. Ageas 
accepted the claim for damaged buildings and contents and told Miss M it could take at least 
12 months for the property to be reinstated. Miss M also raised a loss of rent claim, but 
Ageas declined it because the property was vacant when the fire occurred, and Miss M 
hadnt demonstrated she had suffered a loss. 
Miss M says the property was rented between 2018 to 2020, and another tenant was in situ 
between February to July 2021 but had to move out due to personal reasons. She says she 
was cleaning the property, amongst other things, in preparation for a new tenant to move in. 
And she had verbally agreed for a new tenant to move in on 13 July 2021  subject to 
references and signing a tenancy agreement. But this fell through as a result of the fire as 
the property wasnt liveable due to the damage. 
She says the prospective tenant wrote to Ageas in April 2022 confirming they would have 
rented the property in July 2021 for £600 per calendar month if the fire hadnt occurred. 
Ageas tried to contact the tenant, but they refused to engage further, so they maintained 
their decision to decline the loss of rent claim. Miss M wasnt happy, so she approached our 
Service for an independent review. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the policy should have 
responded to Miss Ms loss of rent claim given the property wasnt able to be lived in due to 
the fire. She recommended Ageas considered the claim in line with the policy terms and 
include interest. Ageas didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says it covers loss of rent if the property is damaged by fire and as a result it 
cannot be lived in. Thats what happened here  fire caused extensive damage, the property 
wasnt and remains unliveable due to the nature of the claim and repairs, and Miss M hasnt 
been able to rent it out. 
Ageas were aware of the nature of the claim, repairs required, and the potential for the 
property to be unliveable for a prolonged period. I say this because they told Miss M early on 
in the claim it could take a long time before keys were handed back to her to start renting the 
property again. So, I think the policy should have responded to the loss of rent claim given it 
was clear the fire resulted in the property becoming unliveable  meaning Miss M would 
suffer a loss of rent. 
Miss M also says a tenant viewed the property in July 2021 and verbally agreed to move in 
on 13 July 2021. Unfortunately, between the viewing and the agreed moving in date (subject 
to checks and signing a tenancy agreement) the fire occurred meaning the prospective 
tenant could no longer move in. The tenant wrote to Ageas in April 2022 stating they would 
have moved in had the fire not occurred. Im aware the tenant decided not to engage further 
with Ageas after sending this April 2022 letter, but I dont think its fair for Ageas to rely on 
this to decline the claim. Its clear from the rental history  and given this was Miss Ms only 
source of income  its most likely a tenant would have moved in shortly after the previous 
tenant moved out in July 2021, but the property was no longer liveable due to the fire. 
Given the above, Im satisfied Miss M suffered a loss of rent. Its clear given the nature of the 
claim the property became unliveable  preventing Miss M from renting it out. This was her 
sole income and Im satisfied a tenant would have been in situ shortly after the previous 
tenant moved out in July 2021, but the fire prevented this from happening. So, Ill be 
directing Ageas to settle Miss Ms loss of rent claim and include interest. 
Putting things right
Ageas Insurance Limited must now settle Miss Ms loss of rent claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. They must also include 8% simple interest* from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I uphold the complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited 
must now put matters right as set out above under heading putting things right. 
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss M how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman