DRN-3567314
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC does not send her correspondence relevant to 
her banking relationship with it, and instead sends that correspondence only to her husband, 
Mr W.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W hold a joint account with Barclays, this account was originally opened with 
Woolwich but was transferred to Barclays in around 2007. Statements for the account, 
including annual summaries and similar statement-like correspondence, are sent addressed 
to both Mrs W and Mr W. But Mrs W says that other correspondence relevant to her and 
Mr Ws banking relationship with Barclays is sent only to Mr W and not to her. An example 
Mrs W has provided is a letter with advice about avoiding scams which was sent to Mr W.
Mrs W says that she is  and always has been  the main account user. So she considers 
that all correspondence should be sent to her. Mrs W also says that prior to the account 
transferring to Barclays she was the first named on the account, but this seems to have 
changed since the account was transferred, and now even when correspondence is 
addressed to both her and Mr W his name is always written first. 
Mrs W complained to Barclays about this issue, and Barclays issued a final response. But 
this final response largely focused on whether statements were addressed to Mrs W. 
Barclays said that there may have been issues with recording Mrs Ws name on the account 
when it was transferred from Woolwich and this might explain why she hadnt been receiving 
statements addressed to her.
Mrs W was unhappy with Barclays response and so referred her complaint to our service. 
During our investigation it become clear that Barclays had significantly mis-understood     
Mrs Ws complaint. But even with this in mind our Investigator did not find that Barclays had 
made any error in how it had corresponded with Mrs W. They noted that account specific 
correspondence was addressed to both parties, as it should be. And that any non-account 
specific correspondence was sent separately to each party to the account. But that exactly 
what correspondence was sent to each party depended on a number of factors. Our 
Investigator also acknowledged that Barclays final response had been incorrect, but 
explained that we could not consider that issue further as complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity.
Mrs W remained unhappy, she says that she has never received correspondence addressed 
directly to her in the same way that Mr W has. She also has reiterated that shes unhappy 
her name is no longer the first named on the account and does not believe that she and 
Mr W have separate profiles regarding this account as it was opened before the account 
migrated to Barclays. Mrs W also maintains that the way Barclays has handled her complaint 
is inextricably linked to her overall complaint about how Barclays has handled her issues 
with correspondence, and so should be something we can consider.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that Barclays has not made any error in how it has been 
corresponding with Mrs W. The evidence Ive seen shows that, as well as the account 
specific information which has been sent addressed to them, both Mrs W and Mr W have 
been individually sent correspondence about general issues relating to their banking 
relationship  such as changes to the terms and conditions and the closure of their local 
branch. I acknowledge that Mrs W says she didnt receive these letters but I am satisfied that 
they were correctly addressed, so I cant see that it would be fair to place responsibility on 
Barclays if they werent ultimately received by Mrs W. 
It does appear that only Mr W was sent a letter with details of what to look out for regarding 
scams, but its for Barclays to decide which customers to target with this kind of 
correspondence. And even if the account was initially opened with only one customer profile, 
banks will often have separate customer profiles for each party to a joint account  
particularly where one or both of the account holders goes on to open sole accounts with the 
same bank, as Mrs W has done here. And I cant see that there is anything wrong with the 
bank doing this, it does after all ensure that confidential details about each account holder 
can be kept separately. It also seems reasonable to me that Barclays would then decide 
what particular correspondence was appropriate to send to each customer depending on 
various factors such as their usage of the account or online activity. 
I can understand that it is frustrating for Mrs W that her name no longer appears first on 
correspondence or on the account name, but I cant see that this stops her from using the 
account in the way she wants to. 
I know that Mrs W says she has been pursuing a complaint about this issue for many years, 
and that she says she has raised it in branch several times. But Barclays has confirmed it 
would need more detail about exactly when Mrs W spoke to the branch, and who she spoke 
to, if it is to investigate this any further. And I consider that to be a reasonable request. But in 
any case, given that Im satisfied correspondence has been correctly addressed to Mrs W 
when appropriate, the issue of whether this has been previously raised by Mrs W in branch 
would not ultimately change my findings that Barclays has been handling her account 
correspondence appropriately.
I also acknowledge that Barclays response to Mrs Ws complaint has been below the 
standard we would expect. Its clear that Barclays did not understand what she was 
complaining about and made some assumptions about what might have gone wrong, and 
that this has caused additional confusion and inconvenience to Mrs W. However, as our 
Investigator explained, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity (or ancillary to a 
regulated activity), so its not within my powers to make an award for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused Mrs W.
So with all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt done anything wrong in how it 
has administered correspondence on Mrs W and Mr Ws account, and it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman