DRN-3968333
The complaint
Miss H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted, then closed her accounts 
causing her financial loss, and distress and inconvenience.
What happened
This complaint only deals with the merits of Miss Hs complaint to do with the restrictions 
applied, and closure of her Barclays savings account, a Cash ISA, and a Help to Buy ISA 
(H2B).
Miss Hs other complaint about her credit card has been decided under a different reference 
number at this service.
In September 2020, following an internal review, Barclays blocked and closed Miss Hs 
savings, ISA, and H2B ISA accounts. A letter notifying Miss H that Barclays was closing her 
accounts down immediately was sent on 2 October 2020.
The funds of around £115 held in the ISA account, and £10,768 in the H2B ISA were moved 
to Miss Hs savings account in October 2020. Along with less than £2 already in the savings 
account, around £10,884 was withheld in Miss Hs savings account.
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Miss H complained. In November 2020, Barclays 
investigated the matter and told Miss H it had made an error in closing her accounts. 
Barclays paid Miss H £100 for the trouble and upset this caused her. Barclays reopened 
Miss Hs Cash ISA account, but it didnt re-open the other two accounts.
In late December 2020, Barclays called Miss H and explained it would not be opening her 
accounts, and the ISA that was reopened will also now be closed again. Barclays told 
Miss H this was due to commercial reasons.
On that call, Miss H is asked where she would like her money sent to. She gives details of a 
new H2B ISA account - which shed taken out with a separate provider. Barclays agent 
wasnt sure if the funds could be sent to this new H2B ISA account, so they asked Miss H if 
she had another account. Miss H gave the details of a current account she had with a 
third-party bank.
Miss H is then told on the call that Barclays will also look into the customer service and 
compensation part of her complaint. Barclays agent says theyll get in touch with Miss H to 
let her know about that, and whether theyve been able to transfer the funds to her H2B ISA 
with another provider.
Around that time, Barclays emailed Miss H and said it was unable to transfer the funds to her 
new providers ISA account due to subscription limits. It told her she could transfer the 
funds directly if she wanted from her bank account. A separate cheque for the closing 
balance of £100 was sent to Miss H.
In January 2021, Barclays responded to Miss Hs complaint. In summary, it said:
- The money it was holding was transferred to Miss Hs third-party current account in 
late December 2020
- It offered Miss H £200 to apologise for its error, and that it would pay 8% interest on 
the funds it owed her - around £162. Miss H would need to get in touch with Barclays 
if she wanted to accept this
Miss H referred her complaint to this service  and did not accept Barclays offer.
Miss H says shes lost the opportunity to get a 25% Government backed bonus on the 
amount held in her H2B ISA to help her buy her first house. And shes lost out on the interest 
she wouldve earned on her accounts.
To resolve her complaint, Miss H asked Barclays to pay more compensation, and either 
transfer her funds to the other providers H2B ISA, re-open it, or cover her 25% financial loss 
shed otherwise have received from the Government.
One of our Investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint. Miss H told them Barclays had 
incorrectly told her she could transfer the funds directly to the H2B ISA herself as this wasnt 
possible. She reiterated shed lost out on £3,000 which wouldve been hers to claim from the 
Government and emphasised that Barclays errors had caused her substantive stress and 
anxiety.
After looking into the matter, and in summary, our Investigator found:
- As a regulated business, Barclays has ongoing regulatory obligations it must follow. 
To meet these obligations, it may choose to review customer accounts or activities 
on an account at any time. Business may decide to restrict an account and even 
close accounts as part of this
- Barclays acted in line with its obligations, and terms of account, when restricting the 
accounts. It applied its terms fairly in doing so  and made no errors
- Barclays didnt cause any undue delays
- Barclays offer of £200 for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of the 
complaint, and 8% interest amounting to £162.33 was fair compensation
- Miss H gave alternative current account details to Barclays to that of the third-party 
ISA provider in case it couldnt transfer the money to the new ISA. Barclays sent an 
email to Miss H telling her it had transferred the funds to her current account as it 
couldnt transfer them to the new ISA due to subscription limits. Barclays also 
explained that Miss H could transfer the funds directly herself from her current 
account
- Based on the evidence, our Investigator was satisfied Barclays didnt fail to follow 
Miss Hs instructions. And that it had made her aware it may not be possible to 
transfer the funds to the new ISA, and provided an alternative to which Miss H 
agreed
- Different business have different internal systems, and our service is unable to tell 
them what they should or shouldnt have
- Barclays has acknowledged the handling of Miss Hs complaint couldve been better, 
but it hasnt made any error in reviewing and closing her accountsMiss H didnt agree with what our Investigator said. In short, she made the following 
arguments:
- Barclays compensatory offer hasnt properly addressed the mess it caused with her 
H2B ISA. An ISA transfer in whole isnt subject to the usual annual ISA subscription 
limits, this is consistent with Barclays own guidance on transferring an ISA
- Miss H asked Barclays to transfer her H2B ISA in its entirety to her new provider. 
Barclays simply tried to do a normal cash transfer and not an ISA transfer as the 
subscription limits, they refer to, do not apply. Miss H gave the current account 
details but didnt think theyd be needed. She wasnt thinking entirely clearly as this 
matter was causing her stress and panic
- Barclays failure to transfer her H2B as it should have, has cost her the opportunity of 
claiming 25% from the Government  which would have been up to £3,000 if shed 
saved up £12,000. But at that time, 25% for her value of savings would have been 
£2,721.08 if realised at that point. As she was regularly topping up the account every 
month, its likely shed have reached the maximum savings amount to realise the 
£3,000 bonus
- Barclays offer of £200 compensation and 8% interest does not come close to her 
losing the ability to claim the Government bonus on her H2B ISA. Nor does it 
adequately compensate her for the stress, upset and time shes had to take off work 
for multiple branch visits
As Miss H didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint was then passed to me 
to decide. As part of my investigation, I asked Barclays for more information, particularly 
regarding the H2B ISA and it being transferred to a new provider. Some of the key points 
Barclays made were:
- Miss Hs new H2B ISA provider didnt formally request a transfer through the ISA 
Transfer Service
- When Miss Hs accounts were closed, the funds were transferred to an internal 
account and the ISA account was closed
- Simply transferring the funds to the new H2B ISA wouldve meant it counting as a 
new subscription  which would exceed the £200 a month H2B ISA limit
- The issues with the limit on subscriptions would have been caused by the account 
being closed in the way it was, and a transfer requests not being made
- Miss H wouldnt have been able to open a new H2B ISA as the scheme closed in 
2019
- On a call with Barclays agent on 23 December 2020, Miss H made the choice to 
complete the transfer to her current account held with another bank. Thats why the 
transfer was completed in the way it was, and other options not sought
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I sent both parties my provisional decision 
where I said I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. Ill set out my findings below. 
My provisional decisionIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. I know Miss H feels 
strongly about her complaint, and what Im planning to decide will no doubt disappoint her. 
So, Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive looked at the reasons Barclays placed blocks on Miss Hs account, both in the first 
instance, and when it maintained most of the blocks after telling her it would reopen her 
accounts. Having carefully considering this, Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with its 
obligations, and acted both fairly and reasonably. So, I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong when restricting Miss Hs accounts.
I know Miss H would like to know what the exact reasons were, but neither Barclays, nor I, 
are under obligation, that Im aware of, to do so. I would add too that our rules allow us to 
receive evidence in confidence.
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for several reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Barclays has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts say Barclays could close them by giving a 
reasonable period of notice. This is typically around two months - but the exact period will 
depend on the individual account terms. But in certain circumstances, it can close accounts 
immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close all three of the accounts in the way that it has done. In reaching this finding, Ive 
thought very carefully about whether Barclays made an error by closing the accounts, saying 
theyd be re-opened, and then deciding again to close them.
Ive looked at Barclays reasons for doing this, and I think it always had reason enough to 
take the more severe action of closing the accounts immediately. I acknowledge that its 
more than unhelpful that Barclays review of Miss Hs account activities fell short in the first 
instance.
So this means I dont think Barclays should have told Miss H it was going to re-open the 
accounts at all. Barclays say it made errors here. Its not entirely clear exactly what errors 
Barclays are referring to, but its offer to pay 8% simple interest for the time Miss H was 
initially deprived of her funds strongly suggests it felt it didnt have reason enough to close 
the accounts.
Several weeks later Barclays said it wouldnt be re-opening the accounts  and was 
reverting to its original decision to close the accounts. Having considered what its reasons 
were for this, Im satisfied the information that underpins this was available at the time it first 
decided to close the accounts.So, that means Im satisfied Barclays always had enough information to close the accounts 
immediately. And if anything, the error it made was telling Miss H it had made mistakes and 
would be reopening her accounts.
In turn, this means Barclays acted fairly when transferring all the funds held in the Cash ISA 
and the H2B ISA to a savings account before returning them to Miss H. This was a 
reasonable action Barclays took to help it close the accounts immediately.
This brings me onto the crux of the complaint. That is whether Barclays has fairly 
compensated Miss H, and whether its actions have led to her suffering a financial loss in 
relation to her H2B ISA.
The Help-to-Buy ISA
Im persuaded, after listening to the call Barclays has given me, and from reviewing the other 
information and arguments, that it doesnt have a proper understanding of this issue. I say 
that because a H2B ISAs can be transferred in whole to a different provider. Barclays would 
only have to review the new providers website to see this.
So that means the limit to subscription reason given by it was most likely because Barclays 
had closed the H2B ISA and moved the funds to an ordinary savings account. This in turn 
meant an ISA to ISA transfer couldnt be carried out.
Its within my powers to direct Barclays to put this right if I think it did something wrong here. 
But, having considered this issue very carefully, I dont think it has. I say that because, and 
as Ive already alluded to, Barclays always had reason enough to close the accounts in the 
way it did from the beginning of its review.
That means, it didnt do anything wrong by closing all the accounts immediately, including 
the H2B ISA, in September 2020. By closing the account in this way, Barclays was under no 
obligation to facilitate an ISA to ISA transfer.
I know this finding will not sit well with Miss H. But Im persuaded Barclays concerns were 
such that an immediate closure was justified, and by doing so was a fair application of the 
terms of the account.
Barclays are wrong to say Miss H could simply transfer the funds from her current account to 
her new H2B ISA. That wouldnt be a transfer of the whole, and she would face subscription 
limits. But for the reasons above, I dont think this matters here.
It also follows that Barclays doesnt need to compensate Miss H for any lost opportunity in 
relation to being able to claim a Government H2B ISA bonus. Barclays acted fairly in closing 
her H2B account immediately  and moving the funds to another account before releasing 
them to Miss H.
In passing, there are other similar schemes which Miss H could benefit from, and they could 
potentially allow her to build up funds more quickly.
Customer Service
This is the part of Miss Hs complaint that Im persuaded Barclays have acted improperly. 
Had Barclays carried out its review with proper due diligence than it wouldnt have told 
Miss H it would be re-opening her accounts.This no doubt has caused Miss H avoidable distress and inconvenience. In short, Barclays 
have caused her to go on a rollercoaster of emotions when it didnt need to do this. This 
course of action has also meant shes had to call Barclays, and go into its branches, more so 
than she should have had to.
So, I think its fair Barclays compensate Miss H for this. In reaching what I think is a fair 
amount, Ive weighed up that Barclays has already paid Miss H £100, and Ive thought about 
the impact this had had on her. Having done that, I think Barclays should pay Miss H £300 
more to put things right.
Lastly, as Barclays should never have changed its mind to close Miss Hs accounts, Im 
satisfied it doesnt need to pay her 8% simple interest for being deprived of her funds for 
longer than she ought to have
In response to my provisional decision, Miss H has made a number of points. Ill summarise 
the key ones here:
- The last offer of compensation from Barclays was £388 rounded up 
- She isnt complaint about the closure of accounts anymore, but because of the 
closing and reopening Barclays took longer to return her money. She could otherwise 
have had her funds the following day when the accounts were initially closed. So she 
should be awarded interest for this 
- A transfer of the H2B ISA in whole was possible  her own research showed this. 
Barclays never tried to do this and misinformed her. She will no longer be able to 
recover her losses, and no similar scheme exists 
- Shes been made very upset by whats happened and still doesnt know the reasons 
why Barclays took these actions
Barclays agreed with what I was planning to decide in my provisional decision. 
I then considered the points Miss H made. Having done that, I was minded to agree that if 
not for Barclays error of keeping the accounts closed when it first said it was doing this, her 
funds wouldve likely been released sooner. So, I sent Barclays an email. Heres the 
pertinent excerpt of what I said: 
Miss H has also responded and made a handful of points, which I've now had time to 
consider.
One of the points she makes is that had Barclays closed her accounts down in 
November 2020 - that is when I said it ought to have in my provisional decisional - she would 
have been able to retrieve all of her funds then. That also means she wouldn't have waited 
till the following month, December 2020, for her funds to be released.
The funds were sent to Miss Hs current account with another bank. And I've not seen
enough evidence to show they were earmarked for any specific purpose. So given Barclays 
should have closed Miss Hs accounts down in November 2020, which likely meant she 
would have had her funds then, in addition to the direction to pay her £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, I'll also be finding that Barclays should pay 8%
statutory interest on all the funds it held from the date it said it was closing the account in 
November 2020 up until they were released the following month.
So, it follows that I think Miss Hs point about being deprived of the funds is a valid one.In response to my email, Barclays say it accepts my recommendation regarding the 
compensatory interest. 
I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having don so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. The reasons for doing so have 
been given in my provisional decision  as above. I will of course address any points raised 
by either party in response to my provisional decision here. 
Barclays has agreed to pay Miss H 8% statutory interest for being deprived of her funds for 
longer than she should have. Miss H will note Ive agreed with her point about this, and 
Barclays have accepted my recommendation. Ive also explained above why I was 
persuaded this was fair compensation to put things right. 
Ive considered what Miss H has said about having more compensation before. But I must 
consider this complaint on it own merits, and Im satisfied, for the reasons already given, that 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused, on top of £100 already paid is fair 
compensation. 
Ive already explained why I think Barclays havent done anything wrong by not transferring 
the H2B ISA in whole to Miss Hs new provider. In short, I said Barclays acted fairly by 
closing this account and moving the funds to another one before closing the accounts  and 
by doing so, it wouldnt have ben able to facilitate an ISA to ISA transfer. Because of this, 
Barclays doesnt need to anything more. 
From cursory research, I note there are other schemes Miss H could look into for 
Government backed help with buying her first home. 
Lastly, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Barclays is under no obligation to 
give her any explanation for the actions it took when deciding to close her accounts.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should: 
- Pay Miss H £300, on top of any compensation already paid, for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused; and 
- Pay Miss H 8% statutory interest on all the funds it should have returned in 
November 2020 when it first said it was closing her accounts, up until the date the 
money was released to her the following month 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman