DRN-3085901
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of a limit decrease on his credit card with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
On 22 June 2020, Mr B received a letter from Barclaycard telling him that his credit card limit 
was due to be decreased due to inactivity on his account. The letter went on to say that the 
account would also be closed shortly after. Barclaycards letter to Mr B asked him to text 
KEEP to a specified number if he wanted to keep the limit the same.
Mr B says he tried sending the message three times, but it failed. He then called the 
alternative number given on the letter but was on hold for two hours and gave up. To resolve 
the issue Mr B wrote a letter of complaint to Barclaycard. In summary Mr B said 
Barclaycards service wasnt fit for purpose and as well as the distress it caused him, he has 
also lost out financially because of the time he spent resolving the problem. Mr B also 
thought the letter was poorly timed, being sent in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Barclaycard looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had offered Mr B an 
alternative way to stop the limit decrease and although it had longer than usual telephone 
wait times, this was due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At the point Barclaycard investigated Mr 
Bs complaint, it opted him out of the limit decrease process, around five days after Mr B 
received the letter. 
Mr B remained unhappy with Barclaycards response. Mr B said he had spent time, equating 
to around £400, trying to resolve the problem. So, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator did find that 
the text service had failed but found Barclaycard had offered an alternative way to make 
contact. She went on to say that although Mr B was on hold for two hours, it was a busy time 
for all banks due the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Its clear there was an issue when Mr B tried to opt out of the limit decrease by text 
message. Mr B has supplied information to evidence this. Having said that, Mr B received a 
message the next day telling him it was fixed and to try again. So, the problem lasted a little 
over 24 hours. 
I understand Mr B has said that due to this error, the system wasnt fit for purpose. But I 
dont agree. IT issues happen from time to time and Barclaycard hasnt made us aware of 
any wider scale issues with the system. So, on this occasion it appears Mr B was just very 
unlucky. 
In between Mr B sending the text messages and the issue being fixed, he did attempt to call 
Barclaycard and hung up after being on the phone for two hours. Although weve seen no 
evidence of this, Ive no reason to doubt Mr B. But, as the investigator has rightly pointed 
out, this was an unpresented time for all businesses when they faced having to adjust 
resourcing levels due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and Im satisfied the time Mr B said he 
spent on hold, while frustrating, wasnt unusual or reasonably avoidable in the 
circumstances. 
Im pleased to see that once Barclaycard received Mr Bs letter, it acted on it and opted him 
out of the process.
Mr B hasnt highlighted that he was unhappy with the reason for potentially decreasing his 
limit, so thats not something Ive investigated. But he has told our service that he found the 
timing of the letter to be inappropriate, given the implications the pandemic was having. Ive 
considered this point carefully but dont find Barclaycard has acted unfairly sending the letter 
when it did. I say this because the decrease was mainly aimed at preventing fraud. And 
given those reasons, the earlier Barclaycard acted, the earlier they mitigated that risk. 
Although Mr B has said he spent additional time making his complaint to Barclaycard and 
our service, this was a choice he decided to make rather than attempt the service again. So, 
I dont find Barclaycard need to compensate Mr B for this. 
In summary, although Mr B must have found it frustrating when he attempted to use the text 
messaging service and it failed, Im satisfied Barclaycard gave Mr B an alternative way of 
opting out of the limit decrease. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to compensate Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman