DRN-2279207
The complaint
Ms A complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) prevented her from 
accessing her account and therefore her funds as a result of a returned letter. She says 
NS&I shouldnt have frozen her account and should have contacted her by another 
method as it held her contact details. Its offered her £40 compensation, but she believes 
it should be significantly more. Our investigator didnt agree and thought the 
compensation already offered was enough.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in depth. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms A has raised concerns about NS&Is general policies, however my role is to 
consider the circumstances of her individual complaint, rather than comment on 
NS&Is policies more widely, which would generally be the role of the regulator.
When a letter NS&I sent was returned at the end of June 2019, NS&I marked Ms As 
account to prompt her to make contact with it. It says this was in order for it to check 
the details it had on file and that the address was correct. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to place this marker on the account to prevent it sending 
correspondence to an incorrect address.
Ms A says NS&I froze her account, however this is incorrect. NS&I placed a hold on 
her account to prompt her to contact it  this prevented correspondence being sent to 
a potentially incorrect address and it prevented her from viewing her account online. 
However the account itself wasnt frozen and she was still being entered into monthly 
draws, etc.
Ms A says NS&I should have contacted her to discuss this, but NS&I has said that 
due to the number of letters it receives, it wouldnt be able to do this. I dont think this 
is unreasonable, given that NS&I has explained that the correct process is that the 
customer is prompted to call up, the details are checked, and account access should 
have been restored at that point. In this case, this call took place on 3 September 
2019.
On that date, NS&Is agent incorrectly advised Ms A that she would need to write in 
to get the marker removed and I can see NS&I has apologised for this mistake. Ms A 
wrote in straight away and her letter was received two days later, with the marker 
being removed the same day. Ms A was able to access her account from 5 
September 2019 and I can see she accessed it the following day, three days after 
she initially contacted NS&I.
Ms A says she had to postpone a holiday as she was concerned that she wouldnt be 
able to provide evidence for her visa, however she hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence of the financial impact that had on her so I cant assess whether there has 
been a financial impact to Ms A and how much that would be. And it appears that 
Ms A made the choice to delay her visa application as she was unsure of how long it 
would take to resolve matters. So while I can understand why Ms A did this, I dont 
think I can fairly hold NS&I responsible.
Ms A would like the compensation for NS&Is error to be increased from £40 but I 
dont think it needs to do anything further. I say this because, while I realise the 
situation caused Ms A some inconvenience and she was worried about it, the delay 
was only a couple of days from when she first contacted NS&I and her account 
wasnt ever frozen  she was just unable to access it. So while NS&Is agent did 
make a mistake which caused Ms A some inconvenience, this was rectified quickly. 
So I dont think NS&I needs to pay Ms A further compensation.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms As frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman