DRN-3293822
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Europ Assistance S.A declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has explained that he booked a holiday abroad  with him departing on 5 December 
2020 for the trip. Mr G was due to remain on holiday until 20 December 2020. However, 
whilst on holiday he explained that the UK government-imposed restrictions which meant 
that anyone returning from his destination, after a set time on 12 December 2020, would 
need to self-isolate for 14 days. 
Because of this restriction, Mr G decided to return to the UK early  with him flying back on 
11 December 2020, to avoid the quarantine. On his return he raised a claim with his travel 
provider for two things  one of these being the costs associated with the unused part of his 
holiday, as well as a claim for damage to the hire car hed been using abroad.
Europ reviewed Mr Gs claim and declined it. It said that Mr G didnt have cover for returning 
home early in this instance  noting that the policy excluded loss resulting from an epidemic 
or pandemic. 
Mr G didnt consider this to be fair. He said that declining his losses for returning home early 
for the above reason couldnt be correct  because hed chosen to take out full Covid-19 
coverage. And therefore, this provide cover for his circumstances. In addition to this, Mr G 
said no justification had been given for declining the part of his claim relating to vehicle 
damage. So, this wasnt fair either.
Because Mr G remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that for Mr G to be covered under his policy for returning home early, he needed to have 
returned home because of one of the events listed as covered in Mr Gs policy booklet. And 
he said there wasnt a reason listed that was relevant to Mr Gs situation. Meaning the loss 
wasnt covered. In addition to this, the investigator noted that the curtailment section of the 
policy specifically excluded cover where a government imposed a quarantine. 
The investigator said that whilst Mr G said hed chosen full coronavirus cover, the 
information Mr G provided showed this was only offered for cancellation and medical 
assistance, not curtailment. 
In terms of the vehicle damage, our investigator said the policy didnt provide cover for 
damage to a hire car. So, they felt Europ had acted fairly in declining this element of the 
claim too.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that the policy he had been sold had been marketed in a mis-
leading way, and the Europ would have known that. Our investigator maintained his view 
that the full covid-19 coverage was only for cancellation and medical assistance and said 
Europ had declined Mr Gs claim fairly. 
Because Mr G remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I do understand this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr G. Its clear he feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to 
reassure both parties Ive considered all information provided to me when coming to my 
decision. However Ive only commented on what is relevant to my reasoning below.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr G feels Europ hasnt acted in line with this. So, Ive 
considered his concerns. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think Europ did anything 
wrong in declining Mr Gs claim.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonable is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Curtailment 
Looking at the policy Mr G purchased, I can see there is cover for curtailment (cutting short a 
trip) under the policy. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, the holiday 
needs to be curtailed as a result of one of the reasons detailed within the policy booklet. The 
list is an exhaustive one. And so, if the trip was cut short, but not due to one of the reasons 
listed, the policy doesnt cover it, and the claim wont be settled.
The reasons in the policy include issues such as the death or illness of the policyholder, a 
travelling companion, relative or colleague, attendance of jury service and the need to 
remain home due to an issue such as burglary. None of the listed reasons apply in Mr Gs 
case. Mr G made the decision to return home early because of government restrictions that 
were coming into place on 12 December 2020. And this isnt a listed reason. Because of 
this, Im satisfied Mr Gs policy doesnt cover his loss here.
In addition to this, the curtailment section of Mr Gs policy says the following:
WHAT YOUR ARE NOT COVERED FOR
You are only covered in relation to the insured events enlisted in the section 
What You are covered for and to the extent therein described. In addition, 
you are not covered for the consequences of any of the following events which 
are excluded from this coverage:
()
The consequences of quarantine and/or measures restricting freedom of 
movement decided by a competent authority that could affect the Insured or 
travel companion before or during travel.Given the above, regardless of whether an insured event happened or not, there is a clear 
exclusion in this section of the policy, highlighting that consequences of quarantine decided 
by a competent authority are not covered. And, as the quarantine was decided by the UK 
government, Im satisfied the need to self-isolate on retuning from holiday falls into this 
category. Given this, I dont think Europ has acted unreasonably in declining Mr Gs claim 
here.
Mr G has said he purchased full Covid-19 cover and this should have covered his loss. So, 
Ive thought carefully about this. But Mr G didnt purchase Covid-19 cover for curtailment. He 
purchased it for cancellation and medical assistance, and the screenshots from the sales 
journey provided to me show this was the case. 
I appreciate Mr G doesnt feel this was made clear. But even if I was to say this wasnt clear 
initially, Mr G did receive his policy documents within the 14-day cancellation period. And if, 
on looking at the documents Mr G felt the policy wasnt right for him, he could have 
cancelled it at that point. Im also aware that around the time Mr G purchased his policy, 
cover for curtailment due to quarantine restrictions wouldnt have been readily available for 
him to purchase. So, I dont think Mr Gs comments in relation to the purchase of the cover 
make a difference to the outcome of this case.
Personal liability cover
Mr G also feels that Europ has acted unfairly in declining his claim for losses, due to some 
damage to the vehicle he hired whilst abroad. Its my understanding that the vehicle was 
scratched whilst in Mr Gs care  and so the car rental firm charged Mr G for this damage. 
So, Mr G is seeking for Europ, as his insurance provider, to cover this loss.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy to see if it provides him with cover for this element of his claim. 
And Im can see it doesnt.
Mr G does have cover under the policy for personal liability claims. But again, as is usual, 
this cover applies only in particular circumstances. The relevant section of the policy does 
say that it provides cover for loss to damage to property You do not own, and You or a 
Family Member have not hired, loaned or borrowed.
The above means that whilst loss or damage to property is covered, this isnt the case if the 
item is hired. And, Im aware that the loss Mr G is claiming for is related to a car that he hired 
during his holiday. Because of this, Im also satisfied that Europ acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy agreed to, when declining Mr Gs claim.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so I dont require 
Europ Assistance S.A to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman