DRN-3865659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that an adviser from Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited mis-
sold them a joint reviewable term assurance policy in 2009. They say it led them to believe it 
could be renewed indefinitely, by opting to extend the cover every five years. Instead, they 
have discovered the cover cannot be continued beyond 2029 which has caused them upset. 
To resolve the matter, Mr and Mrs B want the policy to be converted to a whole of life policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs policy was taken out following a recommendation from an adviser working 
for Haines Watts Financial Services, for which Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited 
(previously trading as Tilney) now takes responsibility. For ease of use, I will refer to the 
business hereafter as EP. 
The policy offers joint life cover with a sum assured of £1,000,000. It has an automatic 
renewal option, reviewed five-yearly. At those reviews, Mr and Mrs B are able to extend the 
cover without further underwriting for an additional five years, though their premium may 
increase. This meant Mr and Mrs B were required to assess renewal options periodically, 
such as in September 2014 when they exercised their five-year extension to 2019. At that 
time the premium was raised from £171 to £381 per month.
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs B noticed that their premium for the joint policy had not been 
taken from their bank account. Mr B called the policy provider (which had changed in the 
intervening years). He was informed that there had been some administrative issues with the 
payment. He was also advised to set up online access with the new provider. Upon doing so, 
Mr B said he noticed that the 2009 policy had an expiry date  something he says he and 
Mrs B had not expected to see; they thought their cover was a whole of life policy.
He therefore sought further information regarding the cover and found that it was set to 
expire before he turned 70. Mr and Mrs B then pursued a complaint to EP. 
Mr and Mrs B complained that, at the time of the recommendation, it had never been set out 
to them that their policy had an end date. They said they had expected and understood that 
the cover would operate in the same way as their existing whole of life policies.  
In September 2021, EP rejected the complaint. It said the adviser had written a letter dated 
21 July 2009. In it he explained how the policy was set for life cover over a five-year basis, 
with optional extensions, following a call of 17 July 2009 which recorded that the reason for 
this type of cover was because Mr and Mrs B were looking to emigrate within five years.  
It also said that Mr and Mrs B were issued with key features information which confirmed 
that the policy provided joint life, first death, five-year renewable term assurance, not whole 
of life cover. This was given before the policy started on 2 October 2009. Before that, Mr and 
Mrs B had also been issued an illustration which explained how the cover could only be 
renewed up to the maximum expiry age. EP confirmed it felt the complaint should not 
succeed; in its view, the policy was suitable and properly explained by the adviser. 
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with the response and they referred the complaint to this service. 
They explained to EP that they had considered moving abroad in 2009, but this hadnt had 
any bearing on the five-year term being chosen. They maintained that they would never 
have signed up to any policy which didnt last for the whole of their lives, irrespective of cost.   
Mr and Mrs B contended that EP had to provide documentation they signed which expressly 
confirmed the policy had an expiry date at the age of 70 for the oldest policyholder  
otherwise it should be inferred that they hadnt known about it. 
EP said it did not consent for the complaint be looked at further, on the grounds that Mr and 
Mrs B would or should have known in 2009 or alternatively upon extending it 2014 that the 
policy had an expiry date.
The complaint was then referred for a decision on the jurisdiction, which I issued in August 
2022. Notwithstanding the merits of the complaint, I felt Mr and Mrs B had pursued it in time. 
The paperwork EP had relied on - a letter sent to Mr and Mrs B from the policy provider 
dated 16 September 2014 regarding the five-year extension  didnt set out the expiry date. 
I concluded that Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the advice became apparent to them in 
2021 when the new policy provider gave them online account access. At that time, a clear 
date of expiry was set out in the policy details. It was this expiry date that Mr and Mrs B said 
was contrary to what they understood from the advice they had received in 2009.
The complaint was then passed back to our investigator to complete her investigation. 
Mr B then made some detailed further submissions about the complaint. In summary, he 
said:
they have only ever received nine different written pieces of information about the 
policy (from the various providers);
they sent this service a copy of each;
during their conversations with the adviser, they specifically asked him to provide 
them with additional life cover to mimic their existing whole of life policies;
the only difference is that their existing policies had a critical illness benefit, which 
was not needed for the new joint policy;
the underwriting questionnaire they completed said they wanted family protection  
any move overseas was irrelevant;
the reason theyd decided to increase their cover was because of a health scare 
relating to Mrs B;
it does not follow that they would have agreed to cover that will expire in her 50s (as 
she is the younger policyholder), based on that reason for needing cover;
they question if the clause relating to a maximum age was added with the change of 
provider (it was transferred in 2012 to a different insurer and again in 2014);
the reason EP cant provide any proof that Mr and Mrs B signed documentation 
relating to the expiry date is because such documentation doesnt exist.  
Our investigator then considered the merits of complaint, but did not think it should succeed. 
She said, in summary, that she had not seen any information to suggest Mr and Mrs B 
wanted a whole-of-life policy. She was satisfied EP provided Mr and Mrs B with clear and 
accurate information about the policy and she did not think it should do anything more.Mr B said he and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings on the complaint. He 
explained that he had now searched through records from the time of the sale, as he had 
been using an old email address. He said that he had located an email dated 8 July 2009 to 
the adviser, which said they wanted their new policy to be whole of life cover, so it was the 
same type of cover as their existing policies  but without critical illness benefit.  
He also made some further points on behalf of himself and Mrs B, noting:
it had not been pointed out to them at the time of the sale that the policy had a 
maximum term (in their case, 20 years);
they take the view that surely the adviser ought to have provided written proof that 
they knew exactly what they were taking out;
in the investigators view, she merely said she thought it was likely that the adviser 
would have gone through the policy details;
this is not conclusive or determinative of what actually happened;
and, as it was, they did not sign any documentation that set out a maximum 20-year 
term;
they arent sure if they have ever seen the personal financial summary document, but 
they believe the adviser will have fabricated it after the fact;
the reference to moving overseas was a red herring and did not reflect their true 
desire to emigrate;
they were never shown a key features document;
signing a contract where it is distinct from the terms of any product or policy taken out 
pursuant to that contract is outrageous;
it is agreed that the adviser set out to them that the policy had a set five-year term 
and a renewal option thereafter, but he did not explain that there was an expiry to this 
provision  why not? 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs additional points but was not minded to change 
her view on the complaint. She said:
the financial summary document used for suitability referred to a 20-year term;
the policy documentation issued by the insurer also confirms the same;
and the policy illustration explained how the chosen term could be between 5 years 
and a maximum 40-year term, up to a maximum expiry age;
the maximum expiry age will be reached for Mr B by 2029  which is the year before 
his 70th birthday;
the discussions had with the adviser made clear that a whole-of-life policy wasnt 
affordable;
Mr and Mrs B had a maximum amount to put towards policy premiums of £300-£400 
per month;
the premium would have been three-times higher approximately to maintain the 
£1,000,000 sum assured;
she is satisfied that the reviewable term assurance policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Bs documented needs and budget;
she also believes that some responsibility lies with customers to read and understand 
the cover they have taken out;
the meeting notes from 14 May 2009 support that affordability was important for Mr 
and Mrs B;
the financial summary document was discussed with Mr and Mrs B at the time  as 
email correspondence from that date supported the same;
there were documented references from call recording notes of Mr and Mrs Bs wish 
to emigrate in five years, and later within two years  so this was relevant;that the adviser did not explicitly set out the expiry date in the form of signed 
documentation did not render the advice or the recommendation unsuitable  and the 
date was made clear in the policy documents;
she did not think the policy was mis-sold or that it was unsuitable for the adviser to 
have proposed at the time.  
Mr B said he and Mrs B remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint, and they 
wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr B also made some further 
comments:
they had always believed they took out a whole of life policy;
they did not have sight of any documentation explaining that the policy would end 
after 20 years;
they were not issued with a key features document;
at no time did they mention that they had a budget for the policy premium;
the assumption from EP that the cover would have been three-times higher at some 
£1,157 per month is conjecture;
their two current whole of life policies which are still in place offer a combined 
£1,008,000 of cover at a combined premium of £522.42 per month;
they are in the process of seeking cover through another broker who has told them 
they can get whole of life cover for the same premium theyre paying for the term 
assurance mis-sold by EP;
their responsibility was based on the instructions they gave and what they signed;
the email provided showed what their instructions were, yet this was ignored;
they had a home worth £1,000,000 at the time of the advice  affordability was not an 
issue for them;
they remain of the view that any correspondence they havent seen was created 
retrospectively;
they request proof of the discussions about moving overseas- as they have no 
recollection of that whatsoever;
they do not believe EPs actions would stand up in a court;
as laypeople, is it fair that they were supposed to pick up on the difference in 
terminology between whole of life policies and reviewable term assurance policies;
they remain of the view that agreeing upfront to the service provided by the adviser 
and then not receiving that service is outrageous  that type of action would not take 
place in any other industry. 
   
EP confirmed that it had no additional comments to make. The complaint has now been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed the file before me, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, and I can how they have gone into 
some detail about what happened at the time. I must also weigh up what EP says, as it has 
also likewise supplied a detailed account of the circumstances of the advice Mr and Mrs B 
received. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, 
on the balance of probabilities.In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. And I believe, on 
balance that Mr and Mrs B were given sufficient information to know and understand that the 
policy they took out was reviewable term assurance, not whole of life cover. And I believe 
these two types of cover are sufficiently distinct such that it is clear one ends after a defined 
term unless a claim is made, and the other continues for life  until a claim is made. 
A number of documents Ive seen issued by the insurer at the time of the advice make clear 
that the policy has an expiry date. For example, the Key Features Document issued by the 
insurer says:
How long will the cover last?
This will depend on the cover basis you choose.
Life Cover 5 Year Renewable
The length of cover is 5 years, but after each 5 year period you have the option to 
renew it for a further 5 years without any further underwriting providing the cover 
ends before your 70th birthday.
If you renew the cover, your payments will be recalculated based on your age and 
our terms and conditions at that time.
Cover is available to those aged between 18 and 64 at the time the cover starts.
Further, the insurers Protection Account Quotation summary dated 17 July 2009 says:
Length of cover - 5 years
Your cover Is renewable In 5 year steps until the term remaining to the maximum 
expiry age is less than 5 years. When this point Is reached cover can be renewed for 
the period remaining up to the maximum expiry age.
Mr and Mrs B contend they only received nine documents from the adviser and/or the 
insurer. I find it more persuasive that the quotation and key features would also have been 
supplied to them at the time. I say this noting that one of the documents Mr and Mrs B have 
supplied from the insurer dated 2 October 2009 confirms the documentation it has sent out 
following acceptance of the terms, and that includes the quotation Ive referenced above. 
I am therefore of the view that sufficient information was provided to Mr and Mrs B for them 
to be able to understand that the type of cover they took out was term assurance (life cover 
for a specified term), not whole of life cover. 
EP has evidenced the searches undertaken by the adviser after the initial meeting held with 
Mr and Mrs B. I am satisfied that these are print screens of the searches conducted at that 
time. The evidence shows renewable term assurance and whole of life policy searches were 
undertaken, at both the £300 and £400 budget estimates previously discussed.  
I accept that Mr B sent the adviser an email dated 8 July 2009 with the instruction that we 
want the new life policy to be whole of life, the same as our existing life policies. 
But, the sums assured which could be purchased for a maximum £400 premium on a whole of life policy ranged between £208,000 and £347,000 depending on the insurer chosen. This 
fell significantly short of Mr and Mrs Bs requested sum assured of £1,000,000.  
And the final quotes were produced after this date. This is evidenced by an email sent from 
the adviser to Mr B on 17 July 2009 which asks if he and Mrs B had made any decision 
about life cover. A call was held between Mr B and the adviser that day.  
There is no call recording available, but there are notes of the call made by the adviser. 
Despite the assertions to the contrary, I have seen no objective reason to believe that these 
notes have been recreated or are falsified. They support the order of events. The notes say, 
given their possible plans of moving [overseas], [Mr B] thought that the 5 year reviewable 
plan would be more appropriate and asked [the adviser] to send the paperwork to establish 
this.
Following on from this, the letter of advice issued to Mr and Mrs B by the adviser dated 21 
July 2009 says:
Life cover
Following our telephone conversation last week I enclose the documentation to 
establish life cover for you both on a joint life 1st death basis, with a sum assured of 
£1M. The plan is set for 5 years and has an automatic renewal option in 5 years time 
that guarantees that the cover can be extended for a further 5 years without any 
further underwriting. The premiums at review cannot be guaranteed and undoubtedly 
increase.
The monthly cost with [Mrs B] (happy birthday by the way) at 43 next birthday would 
be £172.35 assuming that standard rates are obtained after underwriting procedures 
have been completed. I have enclosed a quotation and key features document in 
confirmation of this policy [my emphasis] which confirms the costs and charges.
As noted above, the key features documentation specifically explains how long the cover will 
last. If see no reason why the adviser would not have enclosed it, as confirmed above. 
I believe it most likely that the whole of life quotes were disregarded in favour of the term 
assurance  likely because of either Mr and Mrs Bs recorded desire to emigrate in the 
medium term, since term assurance policy quotes were produced on the basis of Mr and Mrs 
B residing in the UK. It may have otherwise been a decision based on the significant 
difference in respective costs. It simply isnt possible for me to conclude why whole of life 
cover was discounted in favour of term assurance  but I am of the view that Mr and Mrs B 
knew or ought reasonably to have known they were taking out term assurance, not whole of 
life cover given the differences between the two. 
Even if Mr and Mrs B disagree now about that and note they would have paid higher 
premiums, I cannot disregard that I believe the type of policy was made clear to them by the 
adviser and by the insurer. And, the telephone note regarding moving overseas was 
reflected again in later discussions had by a different EP adviser and Mr and Mrs B in July 
2011. She had met with them the previous week and noted that you both have a 2 year plan 
to move [overseas] and buy into an investment business there.  
I am also mindful that the cover did not start for a further three months. Mr and Mrs B could 
have informed the adviser that they did not wish to proceed, if this was the case or asked for 
any information that they now say wasnt supplied. 
In both 2010 and 2011, EP also followed up with Mr and Mrs B about their policy, with the recommendation that it be placed in trust for taxation purposes. In each of those letters, their 
three protection policies are set out as headings. Each of the two existing policies are 
referred to as a whole of life policy, and the 2009 policy is called renewable term 
assurance. I feel this supports that the parties understood that the types of cover differed. 
Taking everything in the round, I do not believe that EPs adviser misled Mr and Mrs B about 
the nature of their policy being term assurance or provided unreasonable or unsuitable 
advice in 2009. Though it is not liable for the actions of the insurer providing the cover, I 
believe the relevant information was supplied, and, on the balance of probabilities, discussed 
between the parties. 
Because of this, I cannot uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint now or provide them with the 
redress theyve asked for.  
My final decision
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, but for the reasons 
detailed above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman