DRN-2949029
The complaint
Mr L complains that the advice he was given by John David Topalian, Esq (Topalian) in 
January 2000 to transfer his group personal pension was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr L had a group personal pension plan (GPP) which was linked to his employment. When 
he changed employment in 1998, he joined his new employers final salary pension scheme. 
Due to the regulations in place at that time, he could no longer make any contributions to the 
GPP, so took advice from Topalian about what he could do with it.
As the rules of his new occupational pension scheme did not allow him to transfer the value 
of his previous GPP into it, Topalian recommended Mr L transfer it into a new plan. Mr L 
proceeded as advised and transferred his GPP to a new personal pension in 2000. But this 
resulted in the loss of a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) which was attached to part of it.
Mr L now believes the loss of the GAR meant he lost out on a generous uplift in pension 
value he wouldve subsequently received had he not transferred from the GPP.
Mr L complained to Topalian that he had been wrongly advised to transfer his GPP. He said 
that had he left it as paid up he wouldnt have lost the valuable GAR, and as a result he has 
lost out financially.
Topalian, in its final response letter, didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary, the 
advice it gave was suitable and reflected his attitude to risk (ATR). It said the importance of 
GARs could not have been foreseen in 2000 as there had been negligible difference in 
guaranteed, and non-guaranteed annuity rates.
Mr L complained to our service. The investigator initially upheld his complaint as he didnt 
believe switching the GAR part of the scheme was in Mr Ls best interests. Whilst 
acknowledging nobody at the time of the advice couldve anticipated recent annuity rates 
would be so poor, he thought the GAR associated with the GPP was a valuable benefit, and 
that its value had not been sufficiently considered as part of Topalians advice process. He 
thought that Topalian should compare the value of his previous plan with the GAR, to the 
value of his current plan, and if there was a demonstrable loss, this would be the redress 
owed to Mr L.
Neither Mr L nor Topalian accepted this outcome. A summary of their responses was 
included in the investigators response, and these are shown below:
Topalian said:
The investigators summary of events was fair, and it was broadly in agreement, that 
the GAR was a valuable pension benefit.
There was evidence the GAR and other benefits, including Protected Rights were 
discussed and considered during the meetings relating to the transfer advice; and, as 
Mr L had joined a final salary scheme, he felt he was not giving up anything of great 
material advantage by transferring.
The information provided by the GPP administrator was not enough to determine 
what parts of the transferred pension contained a GAR.
Mr L said:
He disputed that the funds had separate GAR permissions and as he started 
employment long before the removal of the GAR to new members, he understood 
that the GAR applied to all his accumulated funds and continued to do so after 1992.
The true value of the GAR funds was the transfer value of £38,650.55.
The figures provided by the GPP administrator may not fairly reflect the true amount 
of contributions made and may have been simplified.
Colleagues with shorter employment periods from roughly the same time received 
generous offers from the GPP, which would suggest the GAR was higher than 
considered.
He questioned if the recorded ATR (7 out of 10) was a true reflection and noted that if
this was correct, it would need to be balanced with other elements within the new 
plan recommended.
Our investigator reconsidered all the evidence, including these submissions, and changed 
his opinion. In summary:
He thought it was likely that Mr L was willing to take some risk to increase the 
possible returns in his pension plan, so the ATR recorded by Topalian seemed 
reasonable. 
He accepted the evidence provided by Topalian in the form of meeting notes which 
showed the loss of the GAR was discussed and discounted by Mr L as he was 
joining the final salary scheme of his new employer, and there was little difference 
between the current annuity rates and his GAR at his nominated retirement date.
The final salary scheme Mr L had joined with his new employer provided the balance 
to the risk of the loss of the GAR as it guaranteed a pension.
Mr L didnt accept this revised view. He said in summary:
The meeting notes provided by Topalian couldnt be relied on as they should have 
been followed by recommendation letter highlighting the risks.
He questioned the investigators assertion that his ATR was medium to high.
He drew a parallel with the miss-selling of endowment mortgages, where there was 
no reason to anticipate their poor performance at the time of sale and yet these 
complaints were upheld. So he didnt see why his complaint wasnt the same.
It wasnt reasonable to use his new employment, with its final salary pension 
scheme, as a balance to the risk of losing the GAR, as it was a new job so wasnt 
particularly secure at the time, and he had secured only a very small pension from it 
at the time of the advice.
Evidence of the performance of both the new and old funds at and around the time of 
the advice should be sought to support, or otherwise, the advice to transfer.
He wanted to know how many other employees of his previous firm had been 
advised to transfer pensions like he had been.Topalian had ceased contact with him after the switch, which was evidence that they 
had seen it as a last opportunity to cash in.
The investigator responded to Mr Ls points, but as no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr L and Topalian have made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of 
evidence and I have looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a 
free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to 
be the heart of the matter, rather than commenting on every point made. This isnt intended 
as a discourtesy to anyone, but rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it. And where theres conflicting information about what happened as is here, 
likely due to the passage of time, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, 
on the balance of probability, whats most likely to have happened.
Mr L has said the advice he was given by Topalian to transfer from his GPP was unsuitable, 
as it has meant he lost the associated GAR and this wasnt considered at the time. The 
advice to transfer was given in 1999, and it was completed in early 2000. So when 
considering the suitability of this advice, I must consider both Mr Ls circumstances at that 
time, and the rules and regulations which were in place. I also need to do this without the 
benefit of hindsight. So this means I have to consider if the performance of the old plan, and 
the eventual uplift paid to members many years later, could have been reasonably foreseen 
by Topalian.
 
When Mr L changed employment, and joined his new employers final salary scheme, the 
rules in place at the time meant he could no longer make any contributions to his old 
scheme. So he had to decide whether he wanted to leave it as paid up, or transfer its value 
into a different plan and continue making contributions. Ive considered whether Mr L had 
any control over how the funds in the GPP were invested if it was left paid up, and it doesnt 
appear he did. But even if he had, the range of funds available wouldve been limited due to 
the with-profits and GAR requirements of the policy. This means that by transferring he had 
more freedom and options to make investments with the potential for greater growth than 
what wouldve been possible had he remained in the GPP.
As part of the advice process, Topalian needed to understand Mr Ls objectives and 
circumstances, including his ATR. I have seen evidence that Mr L raised concerns with 
Topalian about the performance of his GPP in 1996, well before the actual transfer occurred. 
This resulted in switching funds within the pension with a view to improving investment 
performance. He also invested other funds in a Personal Equity Plan. So Im satisfied, on 
balance, that he was open to taking some more risk to improve investment returns.
 
And at the time of advice Mr Ls ATR was recorded as being between 6 and 8 out of 10, 
which is medium to high risk. This was explained and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr L 
challenged this at the time. Moreover, given the security of his new employers final salary 
scheme, and his desire to increase his pension benefits, I consider Mr L was prepared to 
take a higher risk approach to achieve a higher rate of investment growth. So, I think this is a 
fair reflection of his ATR at the time.
 
In advising Mr L Topalian also needed to have considered the benefits associated with the 
old plan, and if they were going to be lost, whether Mr Ls circumstances meant these losses could be balanced out. Mr L has said that the loss of the GAR wasnt discussed. But Ive 
seen notes of the discussions between himself and Topalian on 3 December 1999. These 
notes were included in the investigators final view, so I dont propose to repeat them here, 
but Im satisfied that is shows me the loss of the GAR was discussed. And the loss was 
discounted as Mr L was in a new final salary scheme, and because there was little difference 
between the annuity rates available at the time, and the GAR at his expected retirement age.
 
I appreciate Mr Ls point that he has no recollection of the loss of the GAR being discussed, 
and he wouldve expected to have been sent a formal record of the advice. But the rules 
regarding record keeping and written recommendations were different in 1999 to what they 
are now, and written recommendations werent required in these circumstances. And I find, 
on balance, the notes provided by Topalian as contemporary evidence of the discussion are 
persuasive that the loss of the GAR was discussed.
I have also considered whether the change in Mr Ls employment offered some balance to 
the loss of the GAR from his previous pension scheme. Mr L joined his new jobs final salary 
scheme, which was very valuable in that it guaranteed him a pension for life on retirement. 
Now I appreciate Mr Ls point that there was no certainty that he would remain in this job, but 
I think it was a reasonable assumption for Topalian to make at the time. I say this because 
Mr L had already made enquiries to see if he could transfer his old pension into the new final 
salary scheme, which indicates to me a degree of permanence and forward planning. And 
he had remained in his previous role for many years, which also indicated job and career 
stability. And even if he left, he would still have accrued guaranteed benefits for the time he 
was employed.
As I said earlier, I cant use hindsight to see if subsequent plan performance made the 
advice in 1999 more or less suitable. And although I understand why Mr L feels aggrieved 
that he lost out on the uplift in the value of the GAR in August 2018, I cant see how this 
could have been foreseen by Topalian many years earlier. This is especially because at the 
time of the advice, annuity rates had been historically high, with very little difference between 
them and the GAR, and only changed with the financial crash around 2008.
So, Im satisfied Topalian were fair in that it discussed with Mr L the GAR and the benefits 
which would be lost in the transfer. And given his circumstances and objectives at the time, 
his ATR and the anticipated gains from the proposed investment outweighing this loss, Im 
satisfied the advice to transfer his GPP benefits was suitable.
My final decision
As a result of all the above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
10 September 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman