DRN-2883292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain theyve been paying for policies since 2015 which they didnt need 
after Mary Henderson duplicated their application for life and critical illness cover. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs Q applied for a mortgage. To protect their borrowing, they applied for a 
decreasing term assurance with life and critical illness policy and a level term assurance 
policy through Mary Henderson.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs Q were contacted by the provider of the policies after theyd 
conducted a goneaway search on the address they held. Mr and Mrs Q were told they held 
four policies but believed this to be an error as theyd only taken out two.
The provider told Mr and Mrs Q two of the policies were registered to their previous address 
they rented prior to taking out the mortgage, and a further two were registered to their 
residential address for which the mortgage had been taken out to purchase in 2015. Mr and 
Mrs Q complained to the provider who advised them they should raise their concerns with 
Mary Henderson.
After receiving Mr and Mrs Qs complaint Mary Henderson investigated their concerns but 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr and Mrs Q wouldve received documentation at the 
time the policies were set up which wouldve included a cooling-off period and notice to 
cancel.
Mary Henderson also said the adviser at the time of the sale made the cost of the policies 
clear and Mr and Mrs Q would have had the additional direct debit coming out of their bank 
account. As such, Mary Henderson said they found it difficult to understand why Mr and 
Mrs Q had not queried the additional policies before and had not reviewed the policy 
documents to confirm the right cover was in place.
Mr and Mrs Q didnt agree Mary Henderson werent liable for them being overprotected, so 
they brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
said it was clear something had gone wrong. She said from the evidence shed seen she 
thought it likely Mary Hendersons advisor set up new policies when a change to the 
commencement date was required, however failed to cancel the original application.
Our investigator didnt agree it was Mr and Mrs Qs responsibility to have noticed the issue 
sooner. She said they were entitled having sought advice, to expect their policies to have 
been set up correctly.
Because of this, our investigator said Mary Henderson needed to reimburse Mr and Mrs Q 
for the premiums paid in relation to the policies which shouldve been cancelled, and pay 
interest to compensate them for being without the money theyve paid out over the years.
Mary Henderson disagreed with our investigators view. They reiterated their opinion that Mr 
and Mrs Q themselves are responsible for their own banking and at any time couldve found 
out they had policies in place that were additional to their requirements. As no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate itll be disappointing for Mary Henderson, Ive decided to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Qs complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mary Henderson say Mr and Mrs Q met with their adviser in May 2015 to arrange a 
mortgage, buildings and contents insurance and protection. Theyve provided 
correspondence from the time they say clearly shows their advisor only recommended and 
applied for one protection policy.
Ive looked at the documents closely and whilst I can see one application, its clear two 
policies were applied for. A joint decreasing term assurance with critical illness cover for 
£84,835 costing £50.15 per month, and a level term assurance policy for £55,290 costing 
£9.83 a month.
Its not in dispute Mr and Mrs Q wanted this cover in place. But its also clear they didnt 
agree to any further protection which is essentially what they ended up with.
The policy provider has explained that after issuing the policy documents in July 2015 for the 
cover Ive set out above, they were contacted by the adviser in August 2015 and asked to 
bring the cover start date forward by a week. The provider says they explained they would 
need the adviser to submit replacement products to the application in order to change the 
date, but instead a new application was submitted. 
The new application was for two further policies, a joint decreasing term assurance with 
critical illness policy for the same cover costing £51.09 per month, and a level term 
assurance policy, again for the same cover costing £9.96 a month. The cover was set to 
commence a week earlier than the policies on the original application. 
The provider says they werent asked to cancel the original application for cover, and Ive 
seen nothing on the contact notes theyve provided from the time requesting them to do so. 
On balance, taking the evidence available to me into consideration, I think its more likely 
than not the adviser didnt do this and as a result Mr and Mrs Q ended up with four policies 
in place, two that they didnt need - but have been paying for since 2015.
Mary Henderson say Mr and Mrs Q shouldve noticed the additional cover was in place 
much sooner. They say Mr and Mrs Q wouldve received two sets of policy documents and 
that surely theyd have noticed the additional premiums coming out of their bank account. As 
a result, Mary Henderson say they must take responsibility for their own mismanagement of 
their banking errors. But I dont agree.
Mr and Mrs Q were sent policy documents for the original policies in July 2015. After this 
date the policies needed to be amended and the commencement date brought forward. 
Mary Hendersons adviser at the time arranged for this to happen and in August 2015 Mr 
and Mrs Q received new policy documents. I think its more than reasonable for Mr and Mrs 
Q to have trusted the adviser to have carried out their instructions and in turn for them to 
have discarded the initial policy documents.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Qs responsibility to check their bank account transactions 
carefully but I dont think their failure to notice the additional payment places the blame on 
them, or absolves Mary Hendersons responsibility for the policies not being cancelled in the 
first place. The two sets of premiums in question were for very similar amounts, differing only 
by £1.07 and they were payable to the same provider. The premiums werent large amounts 
and amongst day to day bill payments and transactions, I dont consider it unreasonable that 
the additional payment went unnoticed.What is clear to me, is that when the duplicated cover was brought to Mr and Mrs Qs 
attention as a result of the provider contacting them as part of an address cleansing 
exercise, they raised their concern straight away.
So in summary, I think Mr and Mrs Q applied for two policies with Mary Hendersons advisor 
in 2015, but as a result of the adviser not cancelling the original application after an 
amendment was made to the commencement date, theyve been paying for two additional 
policies they didnt need ever since. And I think Mary Henderson need to put things right.  
Putting things right
Mary Henderson should put things right by:
Calculate and reimburse Mr and Mrs Q all premiums paid for the original policies that 
should have been cancelled.
Pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the dates each premium was paid until the 
date of settlement.
If Mary Henderson considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs Q, it should tell them how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr and Mrs Q a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Mary Henderson to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman