DRN-3210712
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Great Lakes include it agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N bought a Staysure annual multi-trip travel policy on 21 January 2020. They 
had booked their trip abroad on 23 February 2020 and were due to travel on 3 to 
14 September 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad 
due to Covid-19. In July 2020 the relevant country was on a list of countries exempt from 
that FCDO advice. But on 13 August 2020 the FCDO reinstated its advice against all but 
essential travel to the relevant country.
Mrs and Mr N cancelled their holiday on 14 August 2020. They claimed on the policy for their 
unrefunded accommodation costs of about £2,000.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy only covered cancellation due to the FCDO 
advising against all or all but essential travel due to earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, 
which wasnt why Mrs and Mr N had cancelled.
Mrs and Mr N complained to us. Their main points are:
they say after they bought the policy Great Lakes altered the policy terms to not
cover Covid-19 which wasnt fair, and
Great Lakes had suggested they might have been covered if they had taken out
additional cover for travel disruption. But they had taken out travel insurance that had
been advertised as comprehensive so the policy should have highlighted that they
wouldnt be covered in their circumstances.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had unfairly declined the claim and should reassess 
the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which Great Lakes has provided as 
relating to Mrs and Mr Ns policy says on page 2;
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
The terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Ns policy under the Cancellation section on 
page 15 say;
Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you 
are forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, 
and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the 
cover (whichever is later).
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive 
cover (an increase to £1,000/£3,000 cover option on Basic and up to £15,000 on 
Comprehensive maybe available, please see the table of benefits for details) per 
insured person for your non- refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you 
are contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid 
excursions up to £300 for Basic cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to 
£350 (£175 for loss of deposit), Comprehensive cover only, for pre-paid kennel or 
cattery fees which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay. 
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or
advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, orhurricane.
Mrs and Mr Ns trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means their claim
isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mrs and Mrs Ns insurance policy, but I dont
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Mrs and Mr N and 
Great Lakes on page 39-41 list the general exclusion of the policys terms and conditions 
and says:
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: Claims arising as a result of the 
following;. 24. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or similar 
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the 
case here and Ill explain why.
I think the limitations of FCDO cover were clearly and transparently highlighted to Mrs and 
Mr N in the key facts document which says:
You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or other 
regulatory authority issuing a directive against all but essential travel to/from your 
travel destination for reasons other than earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless 
you have the Optional Travel Disruption cover added to your travel policy.
The cancellation and curtailment section also explains that there is a limitation on the extent 
of cover available to changes in FCDO advice. It explains that there is only cover for 
cancellation if the FCDO issue a directive advising against all or all but essential travel to the 
trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
Ive considered Mrs and Mr Ns points theyve made about Great Lakes telling them after 
they bought the policy that it wouldnt cover some types of claims due to Covid-19. But even 
if I thought Great Lakes doing so was unfair (and I make no finding on that matter is this 
decision) it doesnt alter my reasoning as to why I think Great Lakes fairly declined their 
claim. The list of reasons when a cancellation claim is covered by the policy that Ive detailed 
above wasnt affected by the information Mrs and Mr N says Great Lakes gave about Covid- 
19 cover. The policy they purchased didnt have cover for cancellation as a result of a 
change in FCDO guidance, except in the circumstances set out in the policy.
Although the policy Mrs and Mr N bought was the brands comprehensive rather than 
basic policy I dont think that means they could reasonably understand the policy would 
cover all eventualities. Cover is still subject to the policy terms and conditions and I think the policy documents are clear there is no cover for FCDO advice against travel in their 
circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr N but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which 
I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt respond. Mrs and Mr N didnt agree with my provisional decision. In 
summary:
They made several points about how the policy was sold on-line and clarity of the 
policy. 
They said the FCDO exclusion Great Lakes used to decline the claim was an 
unreasonable exclusion in a policy which was called a comprehensive policy.
They think its unfair that Great Lakes can rely on a policy term that left them bearing 
the cost of holiday that had to be cancelled through no fault of their own.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered Mrs and Mr Ns full response to my provisional decision, which Ive 
summarised, but its not changed my mind. Ill explain why.
If Mrs and Mr N are unhappy about how the policy was sold to them on-line then they need 
to make a complaint to the business that sold them the policy. But their main points are 
really around the reasonableness and clarity of the terms of the policy.
An insurer can decide what risks it wants to insure, limit and exclude in a policy. Great Lakes 
made the business decision that in this policy it only wanted to insure cancellation of a trip 
due to FCDO advice in particular specified circumstances. I dont think its unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to put limitations on cover for cancellation due to FCDO advice in a policy sold 
as a comprehensive policy. 
Great Lakes didnt use a policy exclusion to decline the claim, it said there was no policy 
cover for cancellation in Mrs and Mr Ns situation. Their policy covered cancellation if the 
FCDO advised against all or all but essential travel to their trip destination because of an 
earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane. Mrs and Mr N cancelled due to the FCDO advising 
against all but essential travel for another reason, which wasnt insured by the policy.
For Great Lakes to be able to fairly and reasonably rely on the limitation to decline the claim 
it needed to make the limitation clear in its policy documents. For the reasons Ive given 
I think Great Lakes made the limitation on cover clear in the policy document and the 
limitation is highlighted in the policy key facts document.
Mrs and Mr N had to cancel the holiday through no fault of their own. But for the reasons Ive 
given above I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and conditions of their policy 
and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes 
to accept their claimMy final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman