DRN-3933344
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Accelerant Insurance Limited unfairly 
declined its commercial property insurance claim. 
Mr R, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf.  
Accelerant is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its 
agent. As Accelerant has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any 
reference to includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
T held a Small Commercial/SME Package insurance policy with Accelerant. T claimed on 
its policy following a fire at its premises. 
Accelerant appointed a forensic investigator, who I will refer to as E, to look into what had 
happened. E said that the fire report stated that the cause of the fire was the ignition of fats 
within the duct system. E said the duct was in poor condition and installed close to 
combustible materials. E did not think the duct had sufficient access hatches to be cleaned 
fully and said that there were poorly sealed hatches through which flames would have 
escaped.
Accelerant said T had breached a number of conditions within its policy. It thought that some 
of the breaches had made the loss more likely and therefore declined Ts claim under 
Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). In particular, Accelerant said that the 
cleaning of the duct had not been complied with due to the inaccessibility of some parts of it; 
there was no grease trap, filter or other grease removal device fitted; and the duct was not 
300mm away from combustible material.  
T did not think this was reasonable. It said that the duct had been cleaned several months 
earlier by a professional company, who I will refer to as R. It provided a cleaning statement 
from R which set out the details of the clean. T said it understood this to be a full clean.
Unhappy with Accelerants response, T brought its complaint to our service. It did not think it 
was fair for Accelerant to decline its claim and explained the significant impact this had on 
both T and Mr R personally. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but he did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld as he thought Accelerant had acted fairly when declining its claim. 
T did not agree. It provided additional evidence including a copy of its cleaning record to 
show that it regularly cleaned the duct. It said the ceiling board around the duct had been 
replaced with gypsum board which was covered with fire resistant paint. It said, in any event, 
the whole ceiling was destroyed when the fire brigade entered to put out the fire. T provided 
a photo of the platinum box which it said included a filter for the grill. T said the duct was 
cleaned by dismantling the platinum box and removing the filter as shown in the photo.  
T said that R had shown it a video of the cleaning which it had carried out to the required 
standard, but it had not kept a copy of the video as it was only required to keep the 
certificate. T provided a certificate from R to show that the duct had been cleaned less than 
12 months previously. T also provided a bank statement to show a payment had been made 
to R. T said its staff cleaned the duct on a monthly basis by dismantling the platinum box 
and cleaning the filter. T said that when the fire was noticed it had not spread outside of the 
duct and the ceiling was not damaged.
T said it had complied with the conditions in the policy to the best of its knowledge. It did not 
think it was fair to decline the claim on the basis of the duct being within 300mm of 
combustible material as it said the duct will always be within that distance of the wall or 
ceiling as it exits the property. T also said that the duct was not installed within any body of 
wood. When T was shown Es photo of the duct within a piece of timber, T said that it was 
clear that the fire had not spread to that wood from the duct.
Accelerant asked E to comment on Ts points. E said, in its opinion, that the position of the 
access hatches to the duct did not allow for it all to be cleaned. It said the box in the photo T 
had provided was disassembled from the main duct and R had not made any reference to 
disassembling parts of the duct in order to clean it. E said that T had also not mentioned 
regular cleaning of the filter when E visited and that the photo T provided appeared to be a 
spark arrestor rather than a filter.
E said that the fire service might have damaged the ceiling, but the fire had already escaped 
the duct before the fire service arrived. E said that there was no evidence that the fire 
service exacerbated the spread of the fire. 
E said that where the duct was in direct contact with the partition wall timbers, the timber had 
been cut to fit the radius of the duct and abutted directly against it, allowing no possibility of 
the use of fire protection. E said it had not identified any fire resistant materials being used 
around the duct. It referred to a photo taken during its visit which it said showed the timber 
had been cut around the duct. 
Our investigator remained of the view that Accelerant had fairly declined Ts claim as he 
thought T had breached conditions within the policy which could have increased the risk of 
the loss in the circumstances that it occurred. 
T asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It did not think it was fair to rely on Es evidence 
given that E had been appointed by Accelerant. It said it had done its duty as a business 
owner to the best of its knowledge and been trapped by Accelerants unrealistic conditions. 
T provided photos which it said showed where gypsum boards had been used and protected 
areas from the fire. T said it had not kept the receipts for the boards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered everything, I am not going 
to respond to each point and will instead focus in this decision on what I consider to be the 
central points. This reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. 
Ts policy covers it for, amongst other things, material damage caused by fire and business 
interruption. However, the policy includes conditions precedent to liability. Accelerant has 
cited a number of conditions which it said have been breached and there has been a lot of points made by both T and Accelerant about the cleaning of the duct. However, I am going 
to focus my decision on the one that I think is most persuasive. I dont think I need to reach a 
finding on the others because, even if I was to decide that it was not fair for Accelerant to 
rely on them, I still would not uphold this complaint because I think Accelerant is entitled to 
decline the claim on the condition I have referred to below. As set out above, I am not going 
to repeat every point that has been made by either party, although I have considered them 
all. 
Point 9 within the list of conditions is Operation of Deep Fat Frying & Cooking Equipment 
Condition. Within this, the relevant point is p) which says it is a condition precedent to 
liability that:
the frying range, cooking equipment and ducting systems are at least 300mm 
away from any combustible materials; unless suitably protected by fire resistant 
substance or material; this includes any part of the buildings structure including 
wall partition, floors and ceilings.
The first thing for me to decide is whether its most likely that this condition was breached. If I 
think Accelerant has reasonably said the condition was breached then I need to consider 
whether T has shown that the breach could not have increased the loss in the circumstances 
that it occurred. That is because Section 11 of the Act says that where compliance with a 
term would tend to reduce the risk of one or more of, (a) loss of a particular kind, (b) loss at a 
particular location, (c) loss at a particular time, an insurer cant rely on the non-compliance to 
decline the claim if the insured shows that the non-compliance with the term could not have 
increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it 
occurred.
E said that the duct was installed less than 300mm from combustible material with no 
apparent fire resistant materials installed. E said that the duct had poorly sealed hatches and 
fire had spread from the duct to the flammable materials through the hatches and by radiant 
heat from the ducts surface. E said that the ducts proximity to combustible material would 
have contributed to the spread of the fire and that photos in its report show areas within 
300mm of the duct which had been impacted by the fire. 
E said gypsum board is typically red in colour and it didnt see any evidence of this on its 
visit. E said that the ducting was installed within a partition wall and timbers had been 
shaped around it. E said that the duct was in direct contact with flammable materials. 
T said it had installed new gypsum boards when it took over the premises but the fire service 
destroyed the ceiling when dealing with the fire. It said bags of flour in stock and foam from 
the fire service may have led E to believe that the boards were white. 
Having considered all of the information provided, I am more persuaded by Es report that by 
what T has said. I have taken into account that E was appointed by Accelerant but E has 
provided a detailed report which is supported by photos. In one of the photos, I can see that 
the timber has been cut to allow to duct to sit directly next to it. So even if gypsum boards 
had been fitted elsewhere I dont believe that it would have been possible to fit any other 
material between the timber and the duct. From looking at Es photo I think it was reasonable 
for E to say that the fire had spread to the area around the duct.
I have considered that the fire service destroyed the ceiling, as well as Ts photos of areas 
that it said were protected from the fire by the boards. However, I remain more persuaded by 
Es report that it did not see any evidence of gypsum boards as I have not seen anything 
other than Ts comments to support that the boards were purchased and installed around the 
duct. And the photos T have provided of undamaged areas are not enough to persuade me the boards were installed. I have considered Ts point that the duct would always need to be 
within 300mm of the building where it exits a structure but I dont think that means that there 
could not be a fire resistant material or substance around it. 
E said evidence of the poorly sealed hatches was the pieces of plasterboard found in the 
duct and a missing screw. E supported this view with a photo of the hatch which I think 
supports its view. I have considered Ts point that the hatches were sealed with high 
temperature certified ceiling paste and screws but I have not seen any persuasive evidence 
of this. Again, I am persuaded by what E has said as it has provided a detailed explanation 
which is supported by photos and I think its reasonable to conclude that the duct being close 
to flammable material would have contributed to the spread of the fire. 
I am persuaded by Accelerant that T most likely breached this condition. I think that 
compliance with a condition requiring the duct to be more than 300mm away from 
combustible materials is one that would tend to reduce the risk. While the fire started within 
the duct I am not persuaded that the fire only escaped the duct due to the actions of the fire 
service as E has stated that flames would have escaped from the hatches and transferred 
from the heat on the surface of the duct. I have not been persuaded by T that non-
compliance could not have increased the loss in the circumstances in which it occurred. 
Therefore, I am not going to interfere with Accelerants decision to decline Ts claim. 
I recognise that this is not the outcome T was hoping for and Im aware of the significant 
impact that my decision will have on T. However, I think Accelerant has fairly declined Ts 
claim and therefore I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman