DRN-3574311
The complaint
Mr P acquired household furnishings in September 2019, using his X credit card. He 
complained to the supplier in October 2019 that these items were faulty. But this matter was 
unresolved in March 2020, when Covid19 restrictions required closure of the suppliers 
premises  the supplier subsequently ceased trading. 
Mr P complained to Santander in February 2021. Santander told Mr P that there was 
insufficient evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr P provided further evidence to Santander in 
February 2022, but Santander said that it was still unable to uphold. Mr P wants Santander 
to refund the payment he made to the supplier. 
What happened
When Mr P complained to Santander, it told him:
He was out of time (more than four months after the transaction) to use chargeback 
to seek a refund from the supplier (if still trading)
Also, because of the length of time between the transaction and his complaint, the 
onus was on him to demonstrate that his furnishings were faulty at the point of supply
Point of supply faults would normally be demonstrated through an accredited 
independent experts report, covering all the items acquired  the costs of which 
would be reimbursed by Santander, if it upheld his complaint
Mr P asked a different supplier to quote for replacing his furnishings, and to provide an 
experts report on their condition. The report confirmed that his furnishings were faulty when 
inspected in February 2022, but it did not indicate whether these faults were likely or not to 
have been present at the point of supply. 
Santander did not accept the report as sufficient evidence of point of supply faults. 
Santander suggested as well that the different suppliers expert might not be fully 
independent, because the supplier and/or expert could have thought that being invited to 
replace Mr Ps furnishings was conditional on the reports findings. 
Mr P referred his complaint to us in March 2022. He was unhappy to hear from Santander 
that the onus was on him to demonstrate point of supply faults. And he was similarly 
unhappy about the reasons given by Santander for not accepting as sufficient evidence the 
expert report he had commissioned.
Our investigator asked Mr P whether he had a written documentation relating to the period 
between October 2019 and March 2020, when he was trying to get the supplier to resolve 
his complaint. Mr P told us that the suppliers premises were nearby, and that his contacts 
with it were face-to-face in these premises.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld:
He was unable to conclude that Santander acted unfairly in not attempting to initiate 
a chargeback
He accepted that the furnishings may have been faulty when inspected in February 
2022
But he agreed with Santander there was insufficient evidence to conclude that these 
furnishings had point of supply faults 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Santander has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable 
person would have regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant 
circumstances. But there are limits to Santanders responsibilities. In particular, faults must 
be present or developing at the point of supply. 
I sympathise with Mr P. He had a window of around six months (before the Covid19 
lockdown) from the point of supply to complain to Santander, in addition to or instead of 
complaining to the supplier:
If Mr P had complained during this window, the onus would have been on the 
supplier and Santander to demonstrate that the furnishings did not have point of 
supply faults. 
It is possible as well that an independent expert inspection could have been 
conducted during this window, which would have indicated the presence or absence 
of point of supply faults. Alternatively, Mr P might have obtained for the supplier 
documentary evidence acknowledging the presence of such faults.
Also, if Mr P had complained to Santander within four months, it is similarly possible 
that a chargeback could have been initiated, which might have been successful. 
But none of these things happened. And the only evidence available comes from an 
inspection (the independence of which is challenged by Santander) undertaken around 29 
months after the point of supply. Also, that evidence only considers the February 2022 
condition of these furnishings.  
I accept that Mr Ps furnishings could have been faulty at the point of supply.  But, on the 
balance of probabilities, I find that the evidence of such faults is insufficient.  This means that 
I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman