DRN-3517806
Summary and background to the complaint
Miss G was the victim of an authorised push payment fraud when, in 2015, she was induced 
by a supposed investment platform to send a total of five payments, amounting to around 
£4,600, using the Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) debit card she had for her personal account. 
She did so having been convinced that she was trading on the financial markets. When in 
fact, it turned out that this outfit was operating a scam and her money was stolen. 
Some years later in 2020, Miss G complained to Lloyds, citing that it ought to have done 
more to protect her. Especially, because she thought this spending was unusual for her and 
Lloyds shouldve recognised that. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint because it disagreed. It 
also said Miss G had left it too late to raise the disputed transactions according to the 
relevant regulations. Miss G therefore referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered what happened and didnt believe Lloyds ought to have 
intervened with the payments before they were let go, as well as acting reasonably when 
Miss G first reported the fraud after five years. Because Miss G doesnt agree with this 
assessment, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I am sorry to disappoint Miss G, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. Ill explain the key points that are material to my decision. 
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account the relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something wasnt 
right about the circumstances surrounding a transaction. It therefore can be a reasonable 
expectation for a bank to double-check payment instructions that ought reasonably to 
trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for their consumer. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whats more, delaying a 
payment instruction could lead Lloyds to breach the relevant regulations. 
Having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be 
reasonable to expect Lloyds systems to have been triggered by the authorised payments in 
dispute. There is a lack of persuasive evidence that these transactions were significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic compared with Miss Gs normal account activity in recent times. 
Besides that, an account entering an overdraft facility doesnt necessitate an automatic 
intervention from a bank. Ive also borne in mind that if banks such as Lloyds were to be 
expected to intervene with every payment of a similar size to the ones being debated here 
(all of which had a value of £2,000 or less) it could risk grinding the banking system to a halt.
In addition to checking what its own internal systems ought to have told Lloyds, Ive paid 
particular attention to the external organisations that publish official warnings about 
merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Having done so, I dont think the bank could 
have known that these payments were being sent to a scammer. This is because, at the time 
of the payments, the payee Miss G paid was not recognised as being a high risk according 
to the well formulated watchlists that Lloyds ought to take notice of. With this in mind, there 
were not sufficient grounds for the payments to be delayed.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think Lloyds ought to have stepped in or taken 
further action before these payments were fulfilled. Overall, Im not satisfied Lloyds failed to 
identify suspicious transactions, or an untoward recipient, that might have indicated fraud or 
financial abuse was being attempted. To that end, I cannot safely conclude that Lloyds acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman