DRN-3772326
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc allowed a third party to take out a current account 
with an overdraft and a loan in his name. Mr F only discovered this after checking his credit 
report. Santander has now cleared the loan and current account from Mr Fs credit report, 
but he would like to know how this was allowed to happen and to receive compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
Santander did initially pursue Mr F for the outstanding balance it investigated the issue and 
hasnt held him liable for the outstanding debt. The investigator felt Santanders £100 offer 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Santander shouldnt 
have set up new accounts or lending to a linked address without first getting his verification. 
He said the £100 offer was too low and failed to consider the stress this situation has 
caused. Mr F said that another lender reduced his credit limit from £8,000 to £500 which 
meant he had to change the way he made his insurance payments. He added that he had to 
visit a branch, a police station, make numerous phone calls and pay to sign up to a credit 
reference agency. So, the £100 offer only just covered the additional costs he incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that this loan and account were taken out fraudulently. Santander isnt now 
holding Mr F liable for the debt here. Its cleared the loan and accounts from his credit file 
and registered the issue with CIFAS which is what this service would expect it to do in this 
situation. 
I appreciate Mr F has said that he shouldve been contacted at his actual address before the 
accounts were opened at the linked address. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Santander asked and considered the appropriate forms of identification when the accounts 
were opened, and it did the necessary checks. But the fraudster was able to obtain personal 
information about Mr F to get passed these. 
To be clear, Im not blaming Mr F here. Im pointing out that in this instance both he and 
Santander have been inconvenienced by the actions of the fraudster who took out the 
accounts. 
Mr F has asked for more compensation than the £100 Santander offered as a gesture of 
goodwill for the inconvenience he suffered. Its important to note that I dont think Santander 
did anything wrong when it opened the account or when it decided to no longer hold Mr F 
responsible for the debt the fraudster had created. So, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to 
increase its offer here. And Mr F has confirmed to this service that the £100 did just cover 
the expenses he incurred trying to resolve this matter. As a result, the £100 seems 
reasonable to me based upon what Ive said above. 
So, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman