DRN-3824252
The complaint
Mr S complains, with the help of a representative, about the manner in which Pilling & Co 
LP, accepted and facilitated the establishment of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
and subsequent investment in Eco Capital shares.
What happened
Mr S transferred his existing pension to a SIPP and invested in shares in Eco Capital. Mr S 
has told us he was looking for additional funding towards his daughters wedding in 2012. He 
says he was advised of this opportunity by an unregulated introducer who referred him to 
Pilling & Co.
The SIPP and Pilling & Co application forms were signed in August 2012. The SIPP 
application form named Pilling & Co as the investment partner. 
At the same time Mr S signed a Pilling & Co form confirming it didnt provide pension 
transfer/pension switching advice. The form asked Mr S to confirm if advice had been taken 
and, if so, from whom or if no advice had been sought. 
The form stated: 
Under no circumstances is Pilling ever responsible for advising you on the suitability 
of transferring existing schemes into our SIPP. This decision is your own and 
transfers are, without exception, accepted on this basis.
Mr S listed himself and his wife where asked who he took advice from in respect of the 
transaction. 
Pilling & Cos terms of business with Mr S confirmed the level of service as execution-only 
and defined this as: 
Execution Only means we do not advise you on the merits of the transactions you 
make or assess the suitability of the investments for you. The implications are that 
you may not have recourse through the Financial Ombudsman Service or the 
Financial Service Compensation Scheme.
If you require advice or an assessment of your investments in relation to your 
financial circumstances please speak to one of our Investment Managers
On 29 August 2012, Pilling & Co submitted Mr S application to AJ Bell. The SIPP application 
form states that its a dealing SIPP and expressly a Pilling & Co in association with 
Sippcentre SIPP. 
Under the investment options section of the SIPP application, Mr S chose investment 
partner, Pilling & Cos details were recorded. The section also reads: 
Please confirm your chosen Investment option(s). 
Please visit our website for a full list of our investment partners. You can specify up 
to three investment partners on this application form. If you wish to specify more than 
this, please use our additional investment partner form which is available from the 
literature section of our website.
Under adviser details the form just refers back to page four where the investment partner 
(Pilling & Co) is recorded. 
The SIPP key features document stated:
What can I invest in?
The Sippcentre SIPP has been designed to allow you considerable flexibility over 
your choice of investments. We offer various options through which you can invest 
all, or part, of your SIPP funds with our panel of investment partners. We also give 
you the flexibility to invest SIPP funds either through other investment managers, 
who are not on our panel of investment partners, or in a wide range of other 
permitted investments e.g. commercial property. Investments that are not made 
through our panel of investment partners are referred to below as off panel 
investments. You can invest with our panel of investment partners through the 
following options: 
B) Discretionary fund managers
You can appoint one of our investment partners to manage funds held under your 
SIPP, either on an advisory or discretionary basis. The range of investments 
available and charges varies by investment partner. You will need to sign a separate 
agreement with your chosen investment partner.
A Pilling & Co questions and answers document provided, amongst other things: 
Q. Who chooses the investments?
A. You do. We try to make sure the investments you choose for your SIPPs are 
allowed. However, we do not accept any tax consequences and/or liabilities of any 
kind should we later find that, whatever the reason, you have chosen non-qualifying 
or unsuitable investments.
Our dealers are pleased to provide free investment assistance (always on a general 
"Execution Only basis) to enable you to make your final investment decisions. 
However, you are always responsible for suitability and future investment 
performance. Our Investment Managers will be happy to provide more detailed 
personal analysis of your investment portfolio once you return our "Client 
Agreement. Details are available on request.
And
Q. Can I transfer from existing pension funds to Pilling's SIPP?
A. Yes. But, under no circumstances is Pilling & Co ever responsible for advising you 
on the suitability of transferring existing schemes into our SIPP. This decision is your 
own and transfers are, without exception, accepted on this basis.
The unregulated introducer sent Mr S a loan agreement for the sum of £21,347.26. This 
appears to have been granted in connection with the investment in Eco Capital. Mr S existing pension was transferred, and he invested in Eco Capital. On 26 September 
2012, Mr S emailed AJ Bell and said: 
Further to my phone conversation this morning, please place an order to purchase 
36,000 shares in Eco Capital Investments Corp, on the Frankfurt stock exchange, 
their ticker symbol is 6IW, their ISIN number is CA 27887 V 1022, using my Pillings 
SIPP Pension, pension account number [Mr S account number].
My full name is [Mr S full name]
Please place this order today 26th September 2012
AJ Bell responded saying: 
Please note you have issued the below email to Sippcentre in error. I have copied 
your financial advisers into my response for information.
If you have any queries please do not hesitate to contact me.
Mr S responded asking if there was anything he needed to do. AJ Bell said: 
You will need to contact Pilling & Co to find out if any further action is required from 
you, as we do not get involved with investment instructions at Sippcentre.
I would suggest speaking to your financial adviser in the first instance if you are 
unsure who to contact.
Pilling & Co sent Mr S a contract note for his investment in Eco Capital shares with a 
settlement date of 1 October 2012, this stated that he was an execution-only client and said:
We thank you for your instructions and have bought on your behalf as agents. 
Pilling & Co later reported its concerns about the SIPP business it was receiving to invest in 
Eco Capital to the then regulator, it said:
We noticed that the clients were of a similar age (early 40's) and had a SIPP's worth 
around £50 - £100k. Obviously once this pattern developed and was becoming more 
frequent we tried to ascertain from the clients why they would employ this "high risk" 
strategy. The clients were generally evasive and would say that it was an investment 
tip etc
However one client mentioned it was part of a SIPP unlocking scheme and quoted a 
company that they were in touch with called Personal Assets Services
We reported this to the SIPP Trustees (SIPP Centre FRN - 211468) who after 
investigation instructed us not to buy anymore shares in Eco Capital.
Pilling & Co wrote to Mr S on 24 May 2013, it said: 
Eco Capital Investments
Please be advised that the above stock has been delisted and at present it is not 
possible to trade in Eco Capital via a stock market. If you hold this investment within 
your Pilling SIPP it is currently listed on your valuation as having no price and as 
such is detailed as having no value.
Mr S received a demand for £11,000 from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), for accessing 
funds from his pension by way of investing in Eco Capital. Background to this complaint
Mr S complained to Pilling & Co. It didnt uphold his complaint. 
As part of our investigation, we asked Pilling & Co for details of the business it received to 
invest in Eco Capital. Pilling & Co told us that it wasnt aware of the involvement of any third 
party or the associated lending. There wasnt any reference to a third party on Mr S 
paperwork. It also confirmed that it had received what it viewed as a relatively small number 
of trades in Eco Capital at that time. It hadnt given advice in relation to any of these 
transactions. It said that most of the clients told it that they had been alerted to buy these 
shares by tips on online tip boards  given that the share price increased steadily over a 
short period of time. Pilling & Co considered the level of trades to be consistent with the 
trendy small market size shares featured on online tip boards. It also provided a breakdown 
of the trades: 
April 2012  2
May 2012  7 
June 2012  7
July 2012  5 
August 2012  7
September 2012  11
Over this time the shares were traded on a regulated stock market (Frankfurt). 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr S complaint and concluded that Pilling & Co had acted 
fairly and reasonably, so he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed and 
made further submissions. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety, amongst other 
things, he said: 
We failed to consider the full extent of Pilling & Cos role in the establishment of the 
SIPP, pension switch and investment in Eco Capital. 
Pilling & Co couldnt in effect facilitate the establishment of a SIPP and a related 
pension switch on an execution-only basis, circumventing entirely the requirements 
of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9 and thereby facilitating the 
investment. 
If Pilling & Co had fulfilled its obligations, Mr S investment in Eco Capital wouldnt 
have gone ahead and he wouldnt have lost his pension. 
Given Pilling & Cos role both COBS 9 and COBS 10 applied as did a common law 
duty of care. 
The SIPP application form was seen and submitted by Pilling & Co. Mr S indicated 
that Pilling & Co was both his financial adviser and investment partner, given that it 
submitted the application, it cant deny this. 
Pilling & Co accepted the declaration signed by Mr S stated that he had taken advice 
from his wife and himself without question. The fact that Mr S answered my wife and 
myself where asked who he had taken advice from ought to have been concerning 
to Pilling & Co as it showed a lack of understanding. 
Mr S wouldnt have understood the characteristics of an investment listed on a non-
UK exchange and the investment didnt meet the definition of a non-complex 
financial instrument such that COBS 10 wouldnt apply.
Theres no evidence Mr S sought advice from Pilling & Co but it was obliged to act in 
his best interests.  
If Mr S had been made aware of the risks involved with the investment, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead, Pilling & Co shouldve given Mr S appropriate warnings. Its clear Pilling & Co had a significant volume of clients who established SIPPs and 
invested in Eco Capital. Its therefore implausible that it wasnt aware of the 
unregulated introducer in the background and, if it wasnt, this shows a complete lack 
of controls. 
Overall, Pilling & Co shouldnt have proceeded with the establishment of the SIPP on 
an execution-only basis under the circumstances. 
Pilling & Co failed to treat Mr S fairly and failed to comply with applicable regulations. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
Mr S and Pilling & Co my provisional decision, explaining why I didnt think this complaint 
should be upheld. I said I would consider anything either party wanted to add. Mr S 
disagreed with my decision and made further submissions. Ive considered his submissions 
in their entirety, here Ive included a brief summary of what I consider to be the key points: 
The provisional decision doesnt properly consider COBS 9 and COBS 10 or the 
relevant judicial authority. 
The role of Pilling & Co clearly extended far beyond that of stockbroker undertaking 
key actions in respect of the establishment of the SIPP, which facilitated the transfer 
of Mr S pension and the subsequent investment. 
Mr S SIPP application form seen and submitted by Pilling & Co indicated that it was 
both his financial adviser and his investment partner. 
The declaration signed by Mr S confirming that he sought advice from himself, and 
his wife, was accepted without question. 
Mr S couldnt be a non-advised customer of Pilling & Co for the purposes of 
transferring his pension and establishing the SIPP. 
Pilling & Cos business model sought to impose an artificial distinction and limitation 
to its role. COBS 9 must be considered in respect of its role. 
The application being accepted by Pilling & Co on an execution-only basis doesnt 
mean that it complied with its duties under COBS 2.1.1R.
Pilling & Cos terms and conditions seeking to limit its responsibility are ineffective 
and do not exclude or limit its responsibilities under COBS, particularly COBS 9 and 
COBS 2.1.1R.
Pilling & Co cant facilitate the establishment of a SIPP and thereby facilitate the 
investment on an execution-only basis circumventing the requirements of COBS 9.
The provisional decision fails to properly consider the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, in particular 
COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 2.1.2R. 
Pilling & Co failed to comply with these regulatory obligations. 
Pilling & Co received 39 applications in six months from consumers presenting as 
direct clients looking to invest in a single non-diversified investment listed on an 
overseas stock exchange supposedly because the investment was on an online tip 
board. This was a significant number of applications given the nature of the business. 
This should have been a red flag. 
Given the timing of Mr S investment Pilling & Co should have had concerns about 
what was happening long before he made his application to it. 
Its clear that the unregulated introducer must have identified Pilling & Co as an entity 
which would simply process the applications received without conducting proper due 
diligence or having proper regard to the nature of the business it was receiving.  
Whilst Mr S case involves a loan back from the investment, he has lost the 
remainder of his pension as a result of Pilling & Cos failure to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. 
Mr S wasnt provided with warnings about the risks involved in the transaction and he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction if he had been told that he risked losing 
all of his pension. The provisional decision absolves Pilling & Co of responsibility because of a 
purported execution-only document signed by Mr S  a driver with no investment or 
pension experience and completely ignores Pilling & Cos role in the establishment of 
the SIPP. 
Significant weight has been placed on the shares being listed on the Frankfurt stock 
exchange however, it cant be said that the investment satisfies the definition of a 
non-complex financial instrument or that Mr S would have understood the 
characteristics of an investment listed on a non-UK exchange.
Mr S also referenced some caselaw in support of his position in particular the 
judgment of HHJ Russen QC in the case of Simon Boxall v Bank House 
Investment Management Limited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain largely as set out in my provisional decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. 
Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. I trust that they will not take the fact that 
my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view. Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878). Im therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint. 
The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive described 
above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr S case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain aspects of the 
Principles, and that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams 
pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, 
he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ 
Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests 
rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. However, I think its important 
to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im required to take 
into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of 
difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a 
legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice. As 
noted, the above publications and other relevant considerations were directed at/in relation 
to SIPP operators. Pilling & Co isnt a SIPP operator but, given its role here, Im satisfied its 
appropriate to take them into account as relevant considerations in this case.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr S SIPP 
application, facilitating the establishment of the SIPP and permitting his subsequent 
investment in Eco Capital, Pilling & Co complied with its regulatory obligations in light of its 
role in this transaction. 
Amongst other things, in the circumstances, I think Pilling & Co had to act with due skill, care 
and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. 
Taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Pilling & Co to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it shouldve 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks and considered whether to accept or reject 
particular applications for its SIPPs (the Pilling & Co branded SIPPs) and subsequent 
investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind. Pilling & Co also had to comply with its 
regulatory obligations relevant to its role as introducer and investment partner to the SIPP. 
Mr S SIPP was a Pilling & Co branded AJ Bell SIPP. Pilling & Co was AJ Bells investment 
partner. Pilling & Co does provide advisory services. In this instance, Pilling & Co contends 
that the SIPP application was accepted on an execution-only basis, as were the instructions 
to invest in Eco Capital. Based on what Ive seen, I think this is an accurate reflection of what 
happened. 
Pilling & Co says that it was unaware of any third parties involved in the transaction. At the 
time of the sale Mr S signed a form confirming: 
Under no circumstances is Pilling ever responsible for advising you on the suitability 
of transferring existing schemes into our SIPP. This decision is your own and 
transfers are, without exception, accepted on this basis.
Mr S listed himself and his wife where asked who he took advice from in respect of the 
transaction. Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Pilling & Co to treat Mr S as a direct 
client or facilitate his application and subsequent investment on an execution-only basis. 
So, on balance, I think that: 
Mr S approached Pilling & Co and presented as a direct client; 
The basis on which the service was being offered was sufficiently clear; and  
Pilling & Co said it wasnt assessing the suitability of the transaction for Mr S. Pilling & Co received 39 applications for SIPPs where the intended investment was Eco 
Capital over the course of six months. These were spread out as follows. 
April 2012  2
May 2012  7 
June 2012  7
July 2012  5 
August 2012  7
September 2012  11
Pilling & Co has said that it was told by some consumers that they had come across the 
investment on online tip boards. It contends that the level of business it received was in line 
with what might be expected where an investment appears on such tip boards. 
I accept that tip boards may influence peoples investment decisions and that this could lead 
to fluctuations in certain investments being made. I think its more likely that this is true with 
portions of a portfolio rather than peoples entire pensions. But, under the circumstances, I 
dont think this, in and of itself, means that Pilling & Co shouldnt have transacted Mr S 
business. Based on what Ive seen, at that stage, these clients were presenting as direct 
clients who decided to make the investment on their own accord  and, at the time, Eco 
Capital shares were listed shares on a recognised stock exchange. 
Based on the information we have, at the time of Mr S investment, Pilling & Co wasnt aware 
of anything concerning in relation to the investment. As above, the Eco Capital shares were 
listed on a recognised stock exchange. I havent seen any evidence that Pilling & Co was 
aware of the associated lending, the involvement of an unregulated introducer or otherwise 
that the investment was being used as part of a pension liberation scheme to release funds 
from pension schemes. 
Mr S submits that Pilling & Co shouldnt have accepted the application on an execution-only 
basis. And that given the level of its involvement, the transaction cant be viewed as truly 
execution-only, so a higher level of obligations applied. I dont agree with that assertion. And, 
even if I were to agree that Pilling & Co shouldve done more by asking Mr S questions 
about his knowledge and experience and providing relevant warnings  as set out above  I 
havent seen enough to reasonably conclude that Pilling & Co ought to have been aware that 
Mr S was looking to effectively release funds from his pension and may incur an 
unauthorised payment charge. So, any warnings provided wouldnt have reflected the actual 
position Mr S could find himself in i.e., that the investment was part of a pension liberation 
scheme and the funds that he released from his pension could be viewed as an 
unauthorised payment. 
At the time of the transaction, Mr S was looking to raise money to fund his daughters 
wedding. He told us that he contacted his mortgage provider as he was considering re-
mortgaging his house to obtain funds but was told that the process would take time, so he 
looked into other options. Mr S then came across the unregulated introducer which he says 
recommended and then arranged the transaction.
Whilst Mr S says that an unregulated firm advised this course of action which resulted in him 
effectively releasing funds from his pension tax-free and prior to pensionable age, Mr S 
presented to Pilling & Co as a direct client. 
Mr S referenced case law in his response to my provisional decision in particular the 
judgment of HHJ Russen QC in the case of Simon Boxall v Bank House Investment Management Limited. Ive considered the judgment in its entirety, taking everything into 
account, I think the facts in this case are very different to the facts in that case. 
Pilling & Co didnt advise Mr S on this transaction, I dont think Pilling & Co recommended 
the SIPP, the transfer of Mr S existing pension or the subsequent investment in Eco Capital. 
Nor did Pilling & Co promote this course of action or the underlying investment. Also, unlike 
the circumstances of the case referenced above, the investment made wasnt units in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme they were quoted shares listed on a recognised 
stock exchange. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr S complaint against Pilling & Co should be upheld. I 
understand that this will come as a disappointment to him. I do sympathise with the situation 
Mr S finds himself in. Im sure the loss of his pension and incurrence of further penalties will 
have caused Mr S distress and have impacted on his retirement plans  but, I havent seen 
enough to conclude that this loss was because of a failing on Pilling & Cos part. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman