DRN-4293034
The complaint
Mrs V says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (who were Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc), who Ill
refer to as Mitsubishi, unfairly declined her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare she was sold.
Mrs V has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mrs Vs submissions I include those made on her behalf.
Mrs V entered into the timeshare agreement with her partner, but as the finance agreement
was in her sole name, I will refer only to Mrs V or her representatives in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
On 1 March 2019 Mrs V purchased a Trial Membership of a timeshare and funded it through
a different finance provider. In October of that year during a promotional holiday in Tenerife,
Mrs V attended a presentation and purchased a Holiday Owners Club Membership with a
company who Ill call C, trading in her trial membership. Mrs V funded this new purchase
through a loan with Mitsubishi.
The timeshare agreement she entered into allowed her to use the points purchased to
secure accommodation at resorts worldwide.
In December 2020 PA complained to Mitsubishi on Mrs Vs behalf. Their claim was quite
lengthy and its not practical to list all of the matters they mentioned here. In summary they
said that Mrs V had a claim against Mitsubishi as there had been an unfair relationship
pursuant to section 140A (s.140A) of the CCA. They explained there hadnt been a proper
assessment of whether Mrs V could afford the agreement; Mitsubishi should have declared
the commission it had paid to the timeshare provider, and that the timeshare company had
unduly pressured Mrs V to take out the timeshare and the finance agreement that funded it.
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support Mrs Vs claim.
PR disagreed. They didnt think the investigator had reviewed all of the submissions theyd
made, and they referred us to the recent case of Shawbrook Bank Ltd, R v Financial
Ombudsman Service Ltd [2023] in which they said the same voluminous evidence had been
considered by the ombudsman and found to be unfair. They noted that the judge had found
the ombudsman in that case did not err in law in their application of Regulation 7(1) Unfair
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) that gave rise to a successful
claim under section 140A CCA 1974. They said the same voluminous evidence and unfair
charges existed in this case and that the interpretation should be the same. They also
provided a copy of generic submissions on behalf of complainants against C that had been
produced by Counsel.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
her view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
PR provided some generic comments from Counsel that shared some general concerns
about consumer contracts with the timeshare provider Mrs V entered into an agreement with.
PR didnt elaborate on which of Counsels comments they thought were pertinent to
Mrs Vs complaint. This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they
havent been made to the business first. So, Ive only considered the complaint points raised
with Mitsubishi in PRs claim to them of 1 December 2020, along with any generic
submissions made on those issues by Counsel.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant to the claim under s.140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the supplier will be deemed to be the responsibility of
the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mrs V and Mitsubishi.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mrs V may have under s.140A
but Im required to take it into account when deciding whether Mitsubishi would be
reasonable to reject Mrs Vs claims.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Unfair pressure
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mrs Vs ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks, and the lack
of time alone to think, that she says she experienced as that may have created an unfair
relationship between her and the supplier.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUTRegulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the
use of harassment, coercion, or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they
would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue
influence was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether
the Supplier exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply
pressure, even without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which
significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I cant see that Mrs V has provided much of an account of why the presentation was
pressured. Shed attended a presentation in March of that year when she signed up for a
trial timeshare, so I think she would have been likely to have had an understanding of the
approach that would be taken. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to
suggest Mrs V didnt understand she didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that she
didnt understand she could walk away without entering into it. She was also provided with a
14 day cooling off period and I think, even if she wasnt allowed much time to think during
the presentation, the cooling off period allowed her to reflect and withdraw from the
agreement and the loan if she wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs Vs ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
Commission
One of the main aims of both the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contract Regulations 2010 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was to enable consumers to
understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they were/are put in the
position to make an informed decision. If a suppliers disclosure and/or the terms of a
bargain didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and the consumer ultimately lost out or almost
certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract whose financial implications
they didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under
S.140A.
I dont think the fact that Mitsubishi may have paid the Supplier commission was
incompatible with its role in the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mrs V
but as the supplier of contractual rights she obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in
relation to the loan, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make
an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mrs V advice or information on that
basis. Whats more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of
commission paid by Mitsubishi to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were interest
bearing (as was the case on this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an unfair
debtor-creditor relationship given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its
unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an
unfair relationship under s.140A.
Was the loan irresponsible?Mrs V says that Mitsubishi were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether she could afford to repay the loan.
However, even if Mitsubishi didnt complete adequate affordability checks (and I make no
finding about that) when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large
consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender.
So, for me to say Mitsubishi needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see
that the credit granted by Mitsubishi was likely to be unaffordable and that Mrs V suffered a
loss as a result. As theres little evidence that she would have found, nor found, it difficult to
repay what she was lent by Mitsubishi, Im not persuaded the agreement was unaffordable
for her or that there was any unfair relationship created by any potential failure to assess the
credit application more thoroughly.
Ultimately, I dont think a court would find evidence to suggest there was an unfair
relationship and Im not therefore persuaded it would be reasonable to expect Mitsubishi to
uphold Mrs Vs s.140A claim.
Shawbrook Bank Ltd, R v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd [2023]
The complaints at the centre of this judicial review were concerned with a particular type of
asset backed timeshare, known in the industry as fractional ownership timeshare. Such
timeshares offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly
associated with timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a
share in the ownership of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay in
that property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement, the property is usually set to
be sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed (on a pro-rata
basis) among the fractional owners.
But that isnt the type of timeshare purchased by Mrs V. While fractional and non-fractional
timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact that the non-fractional timeshares
werent designed with an investment element front and centre is an important distinction
when determining what a fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint involving a non-
fractional timeshare might look like. After all, those parts of the judicial review and
subsequent judgment concerned with the prohibition in Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare,
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contract Regulations 2010 and the provision of
information in relation to any investment element arent relevant to non-fractional timeshares
 including the one purchased by Mrs V.
I acknowledge that some non-fractional timeshares might share a number of contractual
terms that were the subject of the judicial review (and may fall foul of the relevant law on
unfair contract terms). However, an assessment of unfairness under s.140A doesnt
necessarily stop at a regulator breach. Its often necessary to then assess the impact of that
breach on the consumer. That much is clear from case law  including the recent timeshare
review.
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits. And it is with that
approach in mind that having considered the circumstances of this complaint, Im not
intending to uphold it.
My provisional decision
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.Further comments and/or evidence
Mitsubishi didnt provide any further information, but Mrs V did, she said:
My complaint was not about Mitsubishi (previously Hitachi), but C.
In October 2019 I signed for a holiday plan membership with CLC World completely unaware
that I am actually applying for a loan to pay for it. I believe this product was sold unlawfully to
me, because me and my family were convinced that we are signing for a membership that 
can be terminated any time.
We did not want to become members initially, and the representative reassured us that we 
can try the membership only for a few months ( like a gym membership ) to see if we like it. 
No one ever mentioned a loan. We specifically asked if its going to be a change for 
termination and we were told no.
It turned out that the information about cancelling any time was correct, they just left out the 
fact that we have to continue the payments, because we actually have a loan.
I did not read the documents properly after I signed which obviously was my biggest 
mistake, because I would noticed Hitachi on the form ( which I first saw on my bank 
statement and became suspicious that something is not right), that was never mentioned in 
the conversation.
I have to also mention that when I signed, the documents were taken from us for 
approximately 10-15 minutes and we were invited in managers office for a welcome gift and 
a coffee. The explanation was that they will put the documents in a nice folder with additional 
vouchers and will bring it to us. I believe the information about Hitachi was added on after 
my signature.
It is difficult even for me to accept that I was so obliviously unaware what was actually going 
on, but that is how good those guys are.
I was actually concerned that they are not offering wide variety of choices for holiday rather
than suspecting any fraud. 
If I had the information that we are actually applying for a loan I would never agree to sign 
and that was my initial commitment. I was sold a loan as a holiday club membership and 
was reassured that I can cancel any time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant consider complaints about C directly, but Ive explained that section 56 of the CCA 
allows me to consider Mitsubishi responsible for Cs pre-contractual acts or omissions, to 
decide whether an unfair relationship existed between Mrs V and Mitsubishi.
I cant agree that there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs V wouldnt have been aware 
she was financing the deal through a loan. Mitsubishi (Hitachi then) wrote to her in late 
October 2019 to thank her for choosing them to fund your purchase through C and she 
signed the finance documents. Whilst I understand she suggests the documents were taken 
away and adapted, I dont have sufficient evidence to corroborate that, and I think she would 
have complained as soon as she received the letter confirming the funding, if she wasnt aware the deal was being financed through a loan.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence Mrs V was told she could try the membership for a 
few months either. While the March agreement was for a trial, 12 month, arrangement, the 
second agreement was for 15 years and that term was clearly set out, in bold, on the first 
page of the Acquisition Agreement. 
I dont think Ive been provided with additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman