DRN-4005347
The complaint
Ms M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined a claim she 
made under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M poured AdBlue into the diesel tank of her car by mistake. She contacted Admiral who 
said it was considered to be a misfuelling incident, which wouldnt be covered under the 
terms and conditions of her insurance policy. 
Ms M emailed Admiral to ask that it consider her claim and chased up a response by 
telephone. Admiral maintained its position to decline her claim, so Ms M made a complaint.
Admiral referred to an exclusion in its policy terms that said it wouldnt pay for any loss or 
damage caused by using the incorrect type of fuel. It paid her £60 for customer service 
issues Ms M had experienced.
Ms M remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought it was fair for Admiral to rely on the exclusion to decline Ms Ms claim.
Ms M disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said AdBlue is not a fuel, which means 
the incident shouldnt be excluded, according to the policy wording.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Section 2 of Ms Ms policy covers damage to her vehicle, including damage due to an 
accident. Accidental damage isnt defined in the policy, but I think it can be taken to mean 
sudden and unexpected damage. And I think its reasonable for this to be taken to include 
damage caused to a car by a foreign substance entering its fuel system. 
Admiral relied on the following exclusion to decline Ms Ms claim:
any loss or damage caused by using the incorrect type of fuel or failing to keep the correct 
amount of lubricant in your vehicle.
However, Ms M didnt put the incorrect type of fuel into her car. She put in AdBlue, which is 
an exhaust fluid. 
Admiral says it still considers the incident to be excluded from being insurable because a 
liquid which was not the correct fuel had been placed into the fuel tank through human error. 
But the wording doesnt say a liquid which is not the correct fuel, it says the incorrect type 
of fuel. So, I cant see that this exclusion applies, and I think it was unfair of Admiral to have 
declined Ms Ms claim on that basis. 
Ms M has provided an invoice to show what she needed to pay to fix the damage to her car. 
To put things right, I think Admiral should reimburse her for this (less any applicable excess), 
with interest added to compensate her for the time shes had to wait for her claim to be 
settled. 
I set out what I intended to direct Admiral to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Ms M said she had little further to add to my reasoning, other than stressing that she was not 
at a petrol station trying to fuel her car. She was at home on her drive trying to add the 
AdBlue to the AdBlue tank. She made some further comments in agreement with what Id 
said in my provisional decision.
Admiral didnt respond with any further comments or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change them. 
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Reimburse Ms M the amount she paid to rectify the issue with her car (less any 
applicable excess).
Add interest to the above at 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date 
she paid for the repairs until the date this amount is paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from this interest. Admiral should give Ms M 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman