DRN-3139066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of a subsidence 
claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr and Mrs C made a claim to UKI for subsidence damage after discovering 
cracks in their conservatory. UKI accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to 
investigate the cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs C say that soon after the loss adjuster was appointed, they also notified it of 
cracks to the boundary wall and were told this would be considered as part of the same 
claim.
The loss adjuster determined that the cause of the damage was linked to clay shrinkage, 
caused by the presence of tree roots in the soil. Appropriate tree mitigation works were 
done, and a period of monitoring commenced.
Around November 2018, UKI transferred the claim to a new loss adjuster. Once the ground 
movement was deemed stable the scope of repairs to the conservatory was finalised, and 
around January 2020 the repairs were completed.
Mr and Mrs C then reraised their concerns about the boundary wall. The loss adjuster 
accepted it had overlooked this point from the previous loss adjusters file and proceeded to 
deal with this aspect of the claim. It confirmed that the wall ownership and claim liability was 
shared with a third party, so it needed to gain agreement from all relevant parties before 
proceeding with the repairs.
There followed some discussion between the loss adjuster and third party about the best 
way to proceed with the claim. And during this time Mr and Mrs C raised some snagging 
issues with the conservatory repairs, which UKI attended to. 
Around February 2021, Mr and Mrs C complained to UKI. They said they were unhappy with 
the overall time taken on the claim to date. They were also unhappy with UKIs 
communication on the claim and raised additional concerns that the same loss adjuster had 
been appointed to deal with both parties for the boundary wall damage.
UKI provided its final response to Mr and Mrs C. It accepted there had been some delays 
caused by the loss adjusters handling of the boundary wall part of the claim. And it accepted 
that it couldve arranged a joint site visit between the parties earlier in order to move the 
claim forward. So UKI offered Mr and Mrs C £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. They said 
they were looking to sell the property and had put it on the market in anticipation of the 
works being completed. They added the sale of the property subsequently collapsed and 
said this was due to the outstanding boundary wall repair. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs C said that UKIs actions had impacted on their plans to relocate and 
spend time with their family. And they were unhappy with the overall time taken by UKI to 
complete all the necessary repairs.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
considered Mr and Mrs Cs claim journey and concluded their experience merited an 
additional £250 for the delays directly caused by UKI, making a total of £600 compensation. 
UKI accepted our investigators findings. Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said that £600 
compensation didnt reflect the impact of UKIs failings and in no way reasonably reflected 
the situation they endured through the claim.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for these reasons:     
Mr and Mrs C have asked for compensation linked to the lost sale of their property. And 
theyve outlined the future plans they wouldve had, but for UKIs delay. Ive carefully 
considered the information Mr and Mrs C have provided here, whilst taking into account all of 
the other factors in the circumstances of this subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs C havent said exactly when they placed their property on the market, or when 
the sale of the property fell through. But it appears to have happened before the subsidence 
claim had been concluded. So, there was no guarantee at this stage that the claim would be 
finalised ahead of any potential sale. And in any event, its not clear that the boundary wall 
wouldve been repaired any sooner than it was, given the requirement of the third party to 
engage with the claim and jointly agree a repair date. 
Therefore, I cannot fairly conclude that UKIs actions on the claim were a direct cause of the 
sale of Mr and Mrs Cs property falling through, nor the impact to their subsequent plans. Nor 
can I hold it responsible for the actions of a potential buyer. But I can determine if UKIs 
mistake in not addressing the boundary wall damage sooner caused Mr and Mrs C 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns that the same loss adjuster was appointed to oversee 
the boundary wall claim for both properties. But I dont find this unusual in claims of this 
nature. Insurers will usually appoint local specialists and loss adjusters to deal with the claim 
as appointed agents. And in the circumstances of joint liability its possible the same 
specialists may be used. But the loss adjuster would still be required to liaise with the insurer 
it is instructed by, and act on its instructions. And Ive not seen anything to show that this 
arrangement directly caused any detriment to Mr and Mrs Cs claim.Compensation
I do have some sympathy with Mr and Mrs Cs experience of this claim. And I can 
understand their frustration with matters that havent progressed more quickly to date. But I 
can only consider the delays and service that UKI is directly responsible for here.
In determining whether our investigators recommendation for compensation is fair Ive 
considered a number of factors. Ive looked at any avoidable delays in the duration of the 
claim, and UKIs overall service  which includes the actions of its agents. Ive also 
considered the amount of time Mr and Mrs C spent dealing with the various issues in 
proportion to the overall complexity of the claim.
Mr and Mrs C say they told the loss adjuster about the cracks in the boundary wall shortly 
after raising the claim in 2017. And the loss adjusters file shows that new cracks to the 
boundary wall were flagged in December 2018 which would require further investigation. 
And UKI acknowledged its error in overlooking this information around February 2020. 
UKI subsequently took action to move the claim forward once it was aware of its mistake. 
And Ive taken into account that the overall claim was ongoing, with outstanding issues to the 
conservatory repairs finalised in January 2021.
The key delay was in UKI starting its investigation into the boundary wall. And I accept that 
this wouldve certainly caused upset to Mr and Mrs C. But in order for me to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome this must be separated from the actions of third parties and other 
agents not appointed by UKI.
I dont find UKI responsible for any of the delays caused by the neighbouring party in 
agreeing the repairs to the boundary wall. I can see it sent regular chasers to the third party 
in an effort to move the claim forward. So, the main delays caused were the months leading 
up to the point UKI realised the boundary wall was included in the claim. And like UKI and 
our investigator, I agree that this delay was avoidable.
I also find that UKI couldve arranged a joint site visit sooner with the third party to move the 
claim forward. This seems to have caused Mr and Mrs C a significant amount of upset as 
this additional delay was off the back of UKIs previous avoidable error. So UKI couldve 
done more here to mitigate the further upset caused to Mr and Mrs C.
Taking everything into account, I find our investigators recommendation of £600 
compensation total for these issues reasonable. So, I will require UKI to pay this to 
recognise the impact its mistakes have had on Mr and Mrs C.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. In order to resolve Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint, U K Insurance Limited should pay them a total of £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman