DRN-4036640
The complaint
Mr H has complained because he experienced difficulties when making an insurance claim 
on a Tech Pack that was provided by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
Mr H says that when he contacted Barclays about this, it refused to help him.
What happened
Our adjudicator considered what Mr H and Barclays have said and provided, and he did not 
think that Barclays were responsible for the actions of the Tech pack provider.
Mr H disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and I used this to help me decide this complaint. 
Having considered what Mr H has said, I understand why he believes that Barclays should 
be held responsible for how his claim was handled. But Barclays was correct in saying that it 
is not responsible for Mr Hs complaint about how his insurance claim was handled. I will 
explain why. 
The Tech Pack terms and conditions say: 
This Policy document forms the contract between You, [third party] and Us. We and [third 
party] agree to provide the insurance cover described in this Policy provided the premium is 
paid when due in accordance with the Policy. 
It goes on to define us as
Insurer/We/Us/Our[name of insurer]
In addition to the above, under the making an enquiry or complaint section of the policy, it 
explains that should the policyholder wish to make a complaint, they should contact either 
the third party mentioned in the terms and conditions if it relates to a claim or the insurer if it 
relates to the terms of the policy. 
So in this case Barclays was essentially acting as an intermediary, selling an insurance 
product that is actually underwritten and administered by another company. This is not 
unusual for insurance products provided with a packaged account and is a fairly standard 
practice in the insurance industry. 
As such, Barclays was responsible for providing Mr H with the correct information about the 
insurance policy when the Tech Pack was sold to him. Its also responsible for correctly 
collecting the premiums - or in this case, the monthly Tech Pack fees. But it is the insurer 
who is responsible for dealing with claims in line with the terms and conditions of the Tech 
pack insurance. And it is the insurer who is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
this. 
As this complaint is against Barclays, and not the insurer, Im unable to consider whether the 
insurance claim was handled correctly or in a reasonable manner. So I dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything further in relation to this matter.
I note that Mr H believes that Barclays should be responsible because we have mentioned in 
a separate complaint that only Barclays can refund Mr H the premiums he paid. But just 
because Barclays is paid the premiums does not mean it is responsible for issues that arise 
during the claims process. So for the sake of clarity, I should highlight that I am not going to 
ask Barclays to refund the premiums Mr H paid, because Barclays has not done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman