DRN-3053837
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G), amongst other things, did not 
sufficiently check his finances or personal situation to make sure hed be in a position to pay 
back loans at outrageous interest rates. 
  
Background
L2G provided Mr B with four loans for £250, £500, £700 and £1,000.00 in December 2018, 
February 2019, April 2019 and October 2019.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing loan 1 but it shouldnt have provided loans 2 - 4 as it ought to have realised 
these loans were unaffordable. Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicator but L2G did on  
loan 4. And as Mr B didnt accept L2Gs alternative offer of settlement, the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As the parties are no longer in dispute about loans 1, 2 and 3 this decision is only looking 
whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 4 to Mr B.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay loan 4 without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay loan 4 without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
L2G provided loan 4 while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant that L2G 
had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to 
providing him with all of his loans. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs checks suggested   
Mr B had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But for loan 4 Mr B was looking to borrow, on 
such disadvantageous terms, for the fourth time in around ten months. L2G has referred to 
Mr Bs excellent repayment record for loan three but hed up until that point hes only made 
six of the scheduled eighteen payments before asking further funds. And the information L2G would have seen on its credit search would also have shown Mr Bs overall 
indebtedness had increased.
So I think that L2G should have been concerned at why Mr B wanted or even more funds on 
what were clearly such disadvantageous terms so quickly. And I think its reasonable and 
proportionate to have expected L2G to have taken additional steps to verify the information it 
received. In these circumstances, I think that L2G needed to take additional steps to confirm 
Mr Bs actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr B with loan 4 were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr B would have 
been unable to repay loan 4?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told L2G that Mr B would have been unable 
to sustainably repay his loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr B was 
struggling to manage his finances. Most of his income was being taken up by his existing 
living costs and repayments to his existing commitments. And he was clearly in a cycle of 
high-cost borrowing to try and make ends meet. He also appears to have been gambling 
unsustainable sums of money too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr B would not have been able to make the
repayments to loan 4 without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr B was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
Did Mr B lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with loan 4?
As Mr B is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G 
did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr B by:refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on loans 2 and 3 as L2G has 
already agreed to do;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments made and the compensation due for loans 2 and 3, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. L2G should treat any 
payments made, whether to it or any third-party debt party purchaser, should the new 
starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr B with interest at 8% per year simple from the date they were made;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of loans 
2, 3 and 4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
If L2G sold the outstanding balance on loan 4 to a third party debt purchaser, it either needs 
to buy the account back from the third party and make the necessary adjustments; pay an 
amount to the third party so it can make the necessary adjustments; or pay Mr B an amount 
to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman