DRN-3664653
The complaint
Ms D and Mr K have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms D and Mr K took out the PPI in 1993 at around the same time as arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D and Mr K disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS no longer has any documents available from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. To be clear, banks are not required to keep records 
indefinitely. BoS has however retained some basic summary information on its systems, 
such as the start and end dates of the mortgage and policy, that it was joint cover and what 
the policy benefit and costs were. BoS has provided screenshots of the information it holds. 
However, we are unable to share this information as it is considered business sensitive. This 
service holds a library of BoS PPI policy documents and we have one relevant for the date of 
sale in this case.
Ms D and Mr K say they were led to believe that agreeing to buy the PPI would have a 
positive impact on their mortgage application. 
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Ms D and Mr K have provided their genuine recollection of events. 
However, as the sale was in 1993, it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded 
somewhat. Its possible that the adviser told them that it was a good idea for them to buy the 
PPI, rather than it being something they had to buy. This is a subtle difference which its 
possible Mr and Mrs R have misremembered.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms D and Mrs R have said. However, on balance, Im 
not persuaded I can rely on their recollections to conclude that they were pressured into 
taking out the PPI. I find it just as likely that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt 
have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Ms D and Mr K say they were sold the PPI in a branch during the mortgage interview. The 
usual sales process in that scenario would be an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending 
the PPI to them, BoS needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
Ms D and Mr K would both have received sick pay from their employers. However, the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than they would 
have received full pay for. They may have had some savings but having the policy would 
have allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. Overall I consider that they had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
Mr K says he was off sick for about three months in 1998/99 but didnt claim because he got 
full sick pay. However, Mr K was aware of having the policy and could have made a claim if 
hed wanted to. Im unable to comment on what the outcome of any claim at that time may 
have been but being in receipt of sick pay would not have been a reason for the insurer to 
decline a sickness claim.
BoS also needed to provide Ms D and Mr K with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them.
I think that they would have known something about the policy  that it would cover their 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment  because I doubt 
theyd have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it. And I also think 
they would have known that they had to pay for the policy  because its unlikely they would 
have thought it would be free. And based on what we know of mortgage PPI sales, I think it's 
likely that the cost would have been made clear to them in advance of the mortgage going 
live.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms D and Mr K were not affected by any 
of those things. For example, they did not have pre-existing medical conditions that may 
have been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider they had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms D and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman