DRN-3745697
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Booth & Associates to transfer 
the value of his preserved benefits in his former employers defined benefits pension scheme 
(DB scheme) to a personal pension plan (PPP). The transfer was completed in 1998.
Booth & Associates were appointed representatives of Investment Strategies (UK) Ltd 
(ISL). Old Mutual Wealth Holdings Ltd took on responsibility for this advice when ISL 
dissolved. Old Mutual Holdings Limited later became Quilter Holdings Limited (Quilter). 
This means that Quilter is responsible for the advice about which Mr C has complained. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to Quilter throughout this final decision.
What happened
Jurisdiction
Quilter previously stated that Mr C had complained too late. One of our ombudsmen 
considered Quilters position but disagreed  so in August 2022 he issued his decision 
confirming his opinion this complaint had been made in time and that this service was 
therefore able to consider the merits.
Merits
In September 2022, one of our investigators issued her detailed assessment on the merits of 
this complaint. I dont intend to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead 
provide a summary about the events that led to Mr C making this complaint.
Between 1981 and 1996, Mr C accrued 15 years and 6 months pensionable service 
in his former employers DB scheme. The pension provided was defined by reference 
to his final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of 
leaving the scheme in 1996, when he was 40, his annual pension was £15,598. The 
pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 60 and, 
once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount. The revaluation 
and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the DB scheme rules. The 
projected annual pension payable at 60 in 2016, assuming maximum revaluation, 
was £40,989. So the annual pension income Mr C would ultimately receive would be 
somewhere between £15,598 and £40,989. A 50% spouses pension was payable on 
death before or after retirement. 
Quilter advised Mr C to transfer the value of his preserved benefits to a new PPP 
provided by Sun Life. The transfer was completed in 1998 when Mr C was aged 42. 
Sun Life received a transfer value of £134,008 from the DB scheme and invested this 
in a new PPP in Mr Cs name. For arranging the pension transfer, Quilter received 
initial commission of about £3,800 deducted from the transfer value. In addition, it 
would receive annual trail commission deducted from the PPP fund value. In the first 
year, the initial trail commission was projected to be about £660 but it would change 
year-on-year, based on the PPP fund value.
In 2010, Mr C was advised by a business that Quilter isnt responsible for to transfer 
the value of his Sun Life PPP to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). This was 
completed in 2011 and Mr C transferred around £222,500.
This complaint
Mr C complained to Quilter about the suitability of its advice to transfer the value of his 
preserved benefits in his former employers DB scheme to the Sun Life PPP. He said he had 
come to realise the pension transfer had exposed a significant proportion of his pension 
provision to more risk than he realised and that the level of investment returns and pension 
income promised hadnt materialised.
Our investigator concluded Quilters pension transfer advice to Mr C was unsuitable and 
recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said she wasnt persuaded he 
required control of his preserved benefits or that he required a higher tax-free cash lump 
sum or the ability to draw varying levels of capital and pension income. And she didnt think 
there was a need for death benefits under the DB scheme to be paid in a different format. As 
for the financial viability of the transaction, she thought the critical yield attached to the 
pension transfer meant Quilter shouldve advised Mr C against it because it was likely hed 
be worse off if he relinquished his preserved benefits. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that Quilter calculate and pay any redress due to Mr C in line with the FCAs 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers on the basis that he would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In 
response to the FCAs consultation on the new DB pension transfer redress announced on  
2 August 2022, Mr C said he didnt want to wait for any new guidance and rules to come into 
effect to settle this complaint. Rather, he confirmed he would prefer to see the earliest 
settlement possible based on the FCAs current redress methodology.
While Mr C accepted our investigators assessment, Quilter didnt. It provided substantial 
comments in response. It said, in summary, the following:
When it advised Mr C he was a director of an electronics company with an annual 
salary of £87,000. This meant he was financially astute and had the intelligence and 
capacity to understand the risks associated with the proposed pension transfer. He 
didnt express any confusion or concern with the recommendation at the time.
He was a member of his then employers group PPP into which he and his employer 
were paying total contributions of 15% of his annual salary. He was expected to 
remain with that employer until retirement. Therefore, it was likely that hed build up 
substantial additional pension provision over the period to age 60. Hed also be 
entitled to the full State pension. This meant he wouldnt have been solely reliant on 
the DB scheme to meet his pension income needs.
He held substantial other investments and savings plans at the time of its advice and 
was expected to receive a large inheritance. He had previously invested in Enterprise 
Zone Schemes, meaning he wasnt a low risk investor. Rather, he was an 
experienced and higher risk investor who, given his wider wealth, had the capacity to 
tolerate the risks associated with the pension transfer.
The pros and cons of the pension transfer were discussed in detail with Mr C and he 
had adequate time to consider this before he made the decision to transfer. He 
agreed to the transfer because he wanted both the potential for higher pension 
income than that paid by the DB scheme and the flexibility offered by the Sun Life 
PPP. So it was satisfied he had made an informed decision at the time.The transaction was financially viable based on the historic investment returns 
achieved by Sun Life and was within the regulators financial viability guidelines at 
the time. There wasnt any reason to expect that such investment returns wouldnt 
continue in the future and that the critical yield wouldnt therefore be achieved. The 
critical yield figure was reduced by 1% after the transfer value offered by the DB 
scheme had increased. Therefore, it didnt agree with the investigators conclusion 
that it was likely Mr C would be worse off as a result of the pension transfer.
It said that the investigator had unfairly applied the FCAs current rules and 
expectations to a transaction that occurred over 23 years ago. In its opinion, it had 
adhered to the regulatory expectations applicable at the time of its advice. 
It thought that Mr Cs complaint was really about his dissatisfaction with the 
investment performance of his PPP rather than the suitability of relinquishing his 
preserved benefits. It stated that the value of his pension fund in 2021, when he was 
65, was about £380,000 which was greater than the projected fund value of £338,000 
as was stated on the illustration provided to him at the time (based on a 6% growth 
rate).
Our investigator considered Quilters comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
assessment and recommended outcome. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by 
Quilter and Mr C. Therefore, if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Regulatory environment
Quilter has expressed concern that, in assessing this complaint, our investigator had unfairly 
applied the regulators current rules and expectations to a transaction that occurred over 23 
years ago. But it didnt specifically point out where it thought our investigator did this. In its 
opinion, it had adhered to the regulatory expectations applicable at the time of its advice. 
Quilter was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority at the time it advised Mr C. Id 
like to assure Quilter that my decision below is based on the regulators rules and 
expectations applicable at the time. Those rules meant Quilter had a general duty to act in 
Mr Cs best interests and to provide a suitable recommendation to him. It was also a 
requirement that it carry out a transfer value analysis to determine the financial viability of 
the proposed pension transfer and to take this into account when assessing suitability.
My decision is also based on the contemporaneous documentary evidence. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Investment performance
In response to our investigators assessment, Quilter said that Mr Cs complaint is really 
about his dissatisfaction with the investment performance of his PPP rather than the 
suitability of relinquishing his preserved benefits. But despite that dissatisfaction, it said his 
PPP had performed well. It referred to the illustration provided to Mr C at the time and 
commented that the projected fund value, based on a 6% growth rate, was £338,000 and 
that the value of his pension fund in 2021, when he was 65, was about £380,000, implying 
that the PPP had outperformed the illustration. 
Ive looked at the illustration. It appears that Quilter quoted only part of it. The transfer value 
paid to Sun Life comprised two elements: contracted out rights and non-contracted out 
rights. The projected fund value of £338,000 quoted by Quilter was based on the non-
contracted out rights transfer value only. Quilter didnt quote the projected fund value of 
£58,600 for the contracted out rights. So, if it was Quilters aim to show that the PPP fund 
value of about £380,000 had outperformed the illustration, it ought to have quoted the total 
figure of £396,600 from the illustration to provide a fair comparison. This wouldve showed 
that the PPP hadnt in fact outperformed the illustration, as I think it was trying to imply.
In any event, I dont agree with Quilters assertion that this complaint is solely about 
investment performance. Im satisfied that Mr Cs comments reveal that the crux of this 
complaint is fundamentally about the suitability of Quilters pension transfer advice.
Financial viability of the pension transfer
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Quilter advised Mr C. 
This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable 
for the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required 
on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits 
offered by the DB scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is 
used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the 
critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment 
growth to match the pension payable by the DB scheme. 
Having read the evidence, I can see that several different critical yield figures were 
calculated and presented to Mr C during the advice process. Ive considered these in more 
detail below.
Firstly, in its retirement planning report from November 1997, in which it initially 
recommended the transfer, Quilter stated, The comparison Table at Appendix A) compares 
the [DB scheme] estimated pension at age 65 with the potential benefits that might result 
from a transfer to an individual policy. The enclosed analysis indicates that, in order to match 
your [DB scheme] benefits on a like for like basis, an investment return between 9.7% & 
10.17% pa would be required. Ive reviewed Appendix A attached to that report. Its unclear 
to me how Quilter calculated the figures of 9.7% and 10.17%. In addition, its unclear why 
Quilter carried out the analysis to age 65 when the DB scheme normal retirement age was 
60  the critical yield figure is typically higher at younger ages due to a shorter investment 
time horizon. So, the figures at 60 wouldve likely been higher than 9.7% or 10.17%. Ive not 
seen any evidence Mr C wanted to retire at 65. Rather, the evidence indicates that he 
wanted to retire at 60 or earlier, if possible. As a result, I dont think Mr C wouldve been able 
to make an informed decision based on these figures.Following issuance of that report, Quilter arranged for a third-party actuarial firm to calculate 
the critical yield figure in December 1997. That firm calculated a critical yield of 11.5% based 
on a transfer value of £102,688 and Mr C taking the full DB pension at the correct scheme 
normal retirement age of 60. In the conclusion section of the report, the actuarial firm stated 
that the figure of 11.5% exceeded the rate of 10% which was the upper limit where it would 
recommend a pension transfer. I note that the TVAS report included alternative critical yield 
figures of 10.4% and 10.9% based on different assumptions about how the DB pension 
might increase in payment. But the headline rate referred to by the actuarial firm and upon 
which it made its conclusion was 11.5%.
Then, in April 1998, Sun Life produced a transfer analysis document. This stated that the 
annual growth rate required by the PPP to match the DB scheme was 8.32%. But that figure 
was again based on Mr C taking benefits at 65, which was five years after the DB scheme 
normal retirement age of 60  as I noted above, the critical yield figure is typically higher at 
younger ages due to a shorter investment time horizon. So the figure at 60 wouldve likely 
been higher than 8.32%. As a result, I dont think Mr C wouldve been able to make an 
informed decision based on this figure.
Also in April 1998, Quilter wrote to Mr C to tell him the transfer value of his preserved 
benefits had increased from £102,688 to £132,559. As a result of this, it stated that the 
critical yield figure at age 60 recalculated by the actuarial firm had, reduced by over 1% per 
annum to 10.2% rather than 11.5%. Quilter stated that the revised transfer value was 
reasonable and reaffirmed its previous recommendation that Mr C should transfer.
So, in the end, it seems that 10.2% was the final critical yield figure presented to Mr C and 
upon which Quilter based its recommendation that he transfer. I note that this figure still 
exceeded the upper limit figure of 10% previously mentioned by the actuarial firm a few 
months earlier.
For arranging the pension transfer it appears that Quilter received initial commission of about 
£3,800 deducted from the transfer value. In addition, it was noted that it would receive 
annual trail commission deducted from the PPP fund value. The annual charges for the Sun 
Life PPP were stated to be 1.1%. The actuarial firms TVAS report makes no reference to it 
taking into account the actual or assumed charges associated with the transaction. So its 
unclear to me if the critical yield figure of 10.2% presented to Mr C correctly took into 
account the initial and ongoing advice charges or the charges associated with the PPP. The 
absence of these charges in the calculation would mean that the critical yield figure was 
understated, implying less investment growth was required to match the preserved benefits 
than was the case. So it may well have been the case that the true critical yield figure was 
higher than 10.2%. I cant be sure based on the evidence provided. But Im going to work on 
the basis that 10.2% was an accurate figure.
In response to our investigators assessment, Quilter stated that the critical yield figure was 
within the regulators financial viability guidelines at the time. But it didnt provide evidence to 
support this. This service has access to the 'discount rates' published by the regulator at the 
time for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The critical yield required to 
match the DB pension at age 60 was, as noted above, ultimately determined to be 10.2%. 
This compares with the regulators discount rate of 8.2% for the 18-year investment time 
horizon in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate for 
illustrations at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 
6%. In my view, the discount rate and projection rates imply that, with a critical yield of 
10.2%, the financial viability of the pension transfer was questionable.And it seems that Quilters own compliance department also had concerns about the 
financial viability of the proposed transfer. This is because Quilter wrote to Mr C on                          
24 April 1998 to explain that, following input from its compliance department, it wanted to 
again highlight the risks associated the proposed transfer and commented that the critical 
yield, is still on the high side when compared to the guidelines set down by my regulator, 
the Personal Investment Authority. Despite this, in that same letter, Quilter still 
recommended that Mr C transfer because it continued to believe the benefits payable by the 
PPP at age 60 would be higher than the DB scheme because of the historic investment 
returns achieved by Sun Life.
Based on the above, I disagree with Quilters assessment of the situation at the time that           
Mr C would be better off by transferring. Its my view that there was limited scope for Mr C to 
achieve the critical yield to match the DB pension at age 60, let alone exceed it. I think its 
fair to say that in order to achieve a higher level of income than the DB scheme, it wouldve 
required Mr C to accept a high-risk investment approach to provide the potential for the sort 
of investment returns required. But that would only come with accepting the risk of significant 
investment loss. This is because the relationship between risk and reward is closely related. 
Due to the required rate of investment growth required by the PPP over the 18-year 
investment term to age 60, its my opinion that a pension transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interests purely from a financial viability point of view because there was a material risk that 
hed be worse off if high investment returns werent consistently achieved.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice. 
A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean 
that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there might be other considerations relating to 
Mr Cs circumstances which meant a transfer was suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Mr Cs circumstances
When the transfer was completed in 1998, Mr C was aged 42, in good health, married and 
had two children. Having reviewed the evidence, its my view that his primary objective in 
transferring was to achieve a higher level of pension income than would be provided by the 
DB scheme at 60. Theres no real evidence from the time of the advice that persuades me 
that there was any other key motivating factor, such as control of his preserved benefits or 
that he required a higher tax-free cash lump sum or the ability to draw varying levels of 
capital and pension income. Or that he wanted to provide a lump sum death benefit to his 
beneficiaries. Despite the high critical yield and disclosure of the pros and cons of the 
pension transfer, Quilter repeatedly told Mr C that it believed hed achieve a higher level of 
income from the PPP if he transferred. So Im satisfied that this was the reason why he 
agreed with the recommendation.  
Quilter has provided a copy of the risk profile questionnaire completed at the time. This 
scored Mr Cs attitude to investment risk on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 was secure and 5 
was high risk. His score was marked as 3 to 4. And his attitude regarding his preserved 
benefits was also marked 3 to 4. Quilter said that this meant Mr C was an experienced 
investor who was willing to accept a higher degree of investment risk. Mr C has disputed this 
and said that he had a cautious risk profile. He explained to this service that he previously 
invested in Enterprise Zone Schemes on the advice of the same financial adviser who 
recommended the pension transfer. He said that he was persuaded to invest in the 
Enterprise Zone Schemes simply because he was a high rate taxpayer at the time and that 
the initial investment was largely returned as a tax rebate. He said that he would never have 
known about such schemes if hed not been advised to invest in them.Based on what Ive seen, Im not convinced Mr C had a high risk profile or that he wouldve 
been prepared to accept the risks associated with the pension transfer had he fully 
understood the high-risk nature of the transaction. As noted above, its my view he accepted 
the recommendation because he was led to believe by Quilter that hed receive a higher 
level of income from the PPP compared to the DB scheme.
At the time of the advice, Mr C was a member of his then employers group PPP scheme 
into which he and his employer were paying total contributions of 15% of his annual salary. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Quilter said that Mr C expected to remain with 
that employer until retirement. Mr C has disputed this and confirmed that he changed 
employer soon after the transfer. Quilter stated that because Mr C was building up additional 
pension provision and that he had access to other savings and investments, it meant he had 
the capacity such that he could tolerate the risks associated with the pension transfer. I 
cannot see any reference from the time of the advice that Quilter was relying on Mr Cs wider 
wealth or the prospect of receiving other pension income to support its recommendation. In 
my view, while an investors capacity for loss is an important factor when assessing 
suitability, it isnt the defining factor. While an investor might be able to tolerate the risk of 
capital loss, its equally important to establish if this aligns to their objective and whether they 
are prepared to accept a certain level of risk with that particular investment.
At age 42, Mr C was relatively young at the time of the transfer and I acknowledge that he 
had recently joined his then employers group PPP scheme. But hed accrued 15 years and 
6 months pensionable service in his former employers DB scheme. That represented 
almost his entire pension provision at the time. Regardless of what other pension provision 
he was able to build up over the period to age 60 and any other investments he had, it was 
clear that his preserved benefits in the DB scheme would form a significant proportion of his 
pension benefits when he came to retire. Transferring to the PPP led to him relinquishing 
guaranteed, increasing income for life. The transfer to the PPP exposed him to unlimited 
downside risk and concentrated his entire private pension savings on a defined contribution 
basis where the benefits received arent guaranteed but instead based on investment 
performance.
I cannot see, given his circumstances, that Mr C wouldve wanted to take any significant 
degree of risk with the benefits hed accrued even taking into account his wider wealth. The 
transfer exposed him to a high level of risk. Furthermore, he couldnt access the benefits 
until at least age 50 (based on the PPP rules at that time) and so, in my view, there wasnt 
any compelling reason for him to make a decision to transfer at that time.
If properly advised, would Mr C have transferred anyway? 
For the reasons explained above, its my view that Quilter shouldve advised Mr C to 
maintain his preserved benefits in the DB scheme because of the material risk that hed be 
worse off if he transferred. Im not persuaded that he was a high-risk investor.
In potential mitigation of Quilters advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr C, if placed in a 
fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer. This was a complex 
transaction involving many factors which Mr C, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. 
Its my view that he was heavily reliant on Quilter, as the professional party in the 
transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given 
Mr Cs reliance on Quilter to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, he 
wouldve transferred against its advice had it advised him to retain his preserved benefits in 
the DB scheme. Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 
with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
arent necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to their 
customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place. But 
until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Our investigator previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated 
now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance and rules to come into effect to settle this 
complaint. Rather, he confirmed he would prefer to see the earliest settlement possible 
based on the FCAs current redress methodology.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C wouldve most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the FCAs 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of this final decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the DB scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Cs SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must, where possible, be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Quilter receives notification 
of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Holdings Limited to pay 
Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Quilter Holdings Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Quilter 
Holdings Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Holdings Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. If Mr C accepts this final 
decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Holdings Limited. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding if Mr C accepts this final decision. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr C can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Quilter Holdings Limited should provide details of its loss assessment calculation to Mr C in 
an easy to understand format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman