DRN-4026204
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) did not treat him fairly when he 
ran into difficulties paying his credit card after becoming unwell.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with Tesco in or around 2017. Tesco says that Mr Ms 
credit card fell into what is known as persistent debt in 2019 and the card was subsequently 
blocked because of this.
On 15 January 2021, Mr M contacted Tesco to inform it that he was very unwell and 
undergoing intensive and ongoing treatment. At that point, Tesco agreed to freeze all 
interest and charges on Mr Ms account. It agreed a repayment plan of £65 per month with 
the first payment being due on 28 February 2021. Mr M then paid £70 to Tesco on 27 
January 2021 and again on 1 March 2021.
On 25 March 2021, Mr M contacted Tesco again and agreed a further payment plan of £70 
per month. Mr M tried to make a repayment of £80 on the telephone at that time. However, 
Tesco told him a payment was not expected until the end of April because hed already 
made a repayment on 1 March 2021. Mr M then paid £70 on 30 April 2021. Payments were 
all up to date at this point.
The next payment I can see on Mr Ms statements is for £70, which was made on 17 June 
2021. Mr M then paid £80 on 4 August 2021, 20 September 2021 and 18 October 2021. On 
18 October 2021, the payment plan was reviewed and extended by a further three months. 
In the meantime, Mr M contacted Tesco again on 22 November 2021 and a reduced 
payment plan of £50 per month was agreed until May 2022. Mr M paid £50 on 22 November 
2022 and stuck to the plan until March 2022. He paid more than the agreed amounts most 
months.
On 25 April 2022, Tesco informed Mr M that the payment plan could not be extended and he 
would need make the contractual repayments or the account would be defaulted.
On 30 May 2022, Mr M logged a complaint and Tesco agreed to freeze interest while the 
dispute was investigated. It looks as though Mr M was in touch with Tesco again in July 
2022 when he spoke to three different people who told him that if he paid £45, his account 
would be out of arrears and he would be able to use his card again. Mr M paid £45, but his 
card was not unblocked and so Mr M brought another complaint.
In response to the complaint, Tesco said it hadnt treated Mr M unfairly by refusing to extend 
the payment arrangement. It later said he should not have been informed that his card would 
be unblocked if he paid £45. It offered to pay him £110 to compensate him for that mistake. 
Mr M didnt accept Tescos outcome and so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt initially think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with that 
view. He said he hadnt been able to undergo medical treatment because of the mistakes 
Tesco made.
Our investigator looked again at his view and then said that Tesco should pay Mr M a further 
£150 for incorrectly telling him to pay £45. Tesco agreed to do this, but Mr M didnt think it 
resolved his complaint. He said that Tesco told him the payment plan wouldnt affect his 
credit score, but it had. Mr M wanted his credit file to be amended. He didnt think the 
compensation our investigator suggested was sufficient to put right the impact Tescos 
actions had on his health.
As Mr M did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.  I then issued a provisional decision. I said: 
I intend to uphold this complaint to the extent set out below. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to say 
that it wouldnt extend Mr Ms payment plan. I can see that the arrangement to pay 
was initiallyagreed in January 2021 and then extended on several occasions up to 
May 2022.
An arrangement to pay or payment plan is generally a short-term arrangement. By 
the time Tesco said it wouldnt extend the arrangement any further, it had been in 
place for 18-months. And the information Tesco had about Mr Ms circumstances at 
that time indicated that the difficulties he had making the repayments in full were 
most likely long-term.
Tesco said that if Mr M was unable to meet the full contractual repayments, it would 
default his account, which would enable it to freeze interest and charges over the 
longer term. I know Mr M was keen for Tesco not to apply a default. But as his 
difficulties did appear to be long term, I cant say Tesco treated Mr M unfairly when it 
said it would not extend the short-term payment arrangement.
Ive next looked at what Tesco reported to the credit reference agencies. Mr M says 
his credit score was affected by the arrangement he made with Tesco in January 
2021. Our investigator didnt think this part of the complaint should be upheld 
because Tesco had explained to Mr M that the payment plan would be reported to 
the credit reference agencies as an arrangement to pay.
When the complaint was passed to me, I asked our investigator to obtain the 
information Tesco had reported to the credit reference agencies. Having considered 
that information, it doesnt appear to have been correctly recorded.
I say this because Mr M entered a payment arrangement with Tesco in January 
2021. I cannot see that payment arrangement reflected anywhere on Mr Ms credit 
file. Instead, Tesco reported that Mr M was between one and three months behind 
with the repayments from March 2021 up to December 2021. So, as things stand, I 
think Tesco will need to amend the credit file so that it is accurate and shows the 
arrangement to pay.
I asked our investigator to query with Tesco why the information that was reported to 
Mr Ms credit file appeared to be incorrect. On 14 February 2023, Tesco told us it 
now accepted that it had not correctly reported the payment plan and said it would 
arrange for the correct information to be reported to Mr Ms file.
I think it will be fair for Tesco to correctly report to the credit reference agencies that 
Mr M had made an arrangement to pay in 2021. I have listened to the telephone calls 
from when Tesco reviewed the arrangement with Mr M on 15 January 2021, 25 
March 2021, 18 October 2021 and 22 November 2021. I am satisfied that he was 
informed on each occasion that the agreement would be reported as an arrangement 
to pay with the credit reference agencies.
I can see Mr M did largely stick to the payment arrangement, but it looks as though 
he may have missed two repayments. I cant see that anything was paid between 30 
April 2021 and 17 June 2021. That means it looks as though he missed the 
repayment that was due in May 2021. I cant see that anything was paid between 17 
June 2021 and 4 August 2021, so it seems as though Mr M would have missed the July 2021 repayment as well. As Tesco should make sure the information it reports to 
the credit reference agencies is accurate, my provisional view is that it will be fair to 
report those two missed payments as well.
I can see that Mr M told our investigator that he wanted Tesco to put his credit score 
back to what it should have been. I just want to be clear that Tesco is not responsible 
for calculating the credit score that appears on Mr Ms credit file  thats something 
thats worked out by the credit reference agencies themselves. But they will take 
account of whats reported to them by creditors like Tesco. So thats why Tesco 
should make sure the information it provides to the credit reference agencies is 
accurate. And I intend to tell Tesco to report the correct information to Mr Ms credit 
file.
Ive also looked at what Mr M said about Tesco providing him with incorrect 
information in July 2022. I can see Tesco accepts he was told on three occasions 
that making a payment of £45 would clear his arrears and bring the account back up 
to date. However, this was not correct because Mr Ms card use had already been 
suspended in 2019 because Tesco considered him to be in persistent debt.
I agree that Tesco shouldnt have given Mr M incorrect information in that regard. Mr 
M told our investigator that he wanted Tesco to reactivate his credit card. But I cant 
reasonably tell Tesco to reactivate the card just because it mistakenly told him it 
would. It has already agreed to pay him £260 to compensate him for that mistake.
But as I have identified a further error on Tescos part, as things stand, I dont think 
the compensation of £260 Tesco agreed to pay in this case is fair.
As I said above, Mr M has a very serious and longstanding health condition requiring 
frequent medical intervention. Mr M says the impact on him was such that his 
medical professionals delayed treating his ongoing health condition because of the 
difficulties he says were caused by Tesco. Im very sorry to hear that there were 
delays with Mr Ms treatment. However, looking at the information thats before me, I 
dont think I can conclude that the dispute with Tesco would have been the only 
reason that Mr Ms treatment was delayed.
That said, at the time of Tescos errors, Mr M was and still is going through a very 
difficult time. I have listened to the calls between Mr M and our investigator and it is 
clear that the ongoing issue with his credit file has caused him a significant degree of 
distress. He has also been inconvenienced in trying to put the matter right during that 
very difficult time and when in poor health.
Putting all of this together, as things stand, I intend to tell Tesco to pay a further £240 
to Mr M. That means I intend to tell Tesco to pay a total of £500 to Mr M to 
compensate him for the errors I have identified above.
I asked the parties to provide me with any additional comments they wanted me to consider. 
No further information or evidence was provided by Tesco. Mr M said that he thought Tesco 
should pay more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I know Mr M thought that more compensation should be paid. I recognised the mistakes 
Tesco made in my provisional decision and that these mistakes caused Mr M some distress 
and inconvenience. However, I remain satisfied that £500 fairly reflects the impact this had 
on him. Im not persuaded that Tesco should pay more. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Tesco will need to pay £500 in total to 
Mr M. It will also need to amend Mr Ms credit file. 
Putting things right
I require Tesco to:
amend Mr Ms credit file so it shows he made an arrangement to pay his Tesco credit 
card with the first payment due on 28 February 2022. The amendment can also show 
that a payment was missed in May 2021 and again in July 2021; and
pay £500 in total to compensate Mr M for the mistakes I have identified above. If 
£260 has already been paid to Mr M, then Tesco can deduct that from the amount it 
now owes him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put things right as I have 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman