DRN-4011103
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) gave him confusing 
information about his two credit card accounts and, for an extended period and despite many 
phone calls, failed to spot that he had consequently paid into the wrong account. He says 
Virgin Money sent him a threatening letter but then it couldnt explain what it was about. He 
found Virgin Moneys formal response to his complaint extremely insulting and upsetting.
What happened
Mr R had had two credit cards for a few years. One was with Virgin Money and one was with 
Yorkshire Bank, both of which are part of Clydesdale Bank. In February 2022, the two cards 
were rebranded under the single Virgin Money name, and a new app was launched. 
In March, following a text reminder from Virgin Money, Mr R accidentally paid into his Virgin 
Money credit card, not realising that he was being asked to pay for his Yorkshire Bank credit 
card. Despite calls to Virgin Money, it took several weeks for Mr R to work out this was the 
problem.  Mr R has provided detailed information, including screenshots from his phone 
showing texts he received and phone calls he made and received. 
These are the key events:
On 31 March, Mr R received a text message from Virgin Money to remind him your credit 
card payment is due in a couple of days. Mr R says he paid £25.
On 4 April Mr R received another text message form Virgin Money Your payment is 
overdue Please ignore if youve already paid. As with the previous text, there was no 
account identifier in the message. Mr R says he paid another £25.
On 6 April, Mr R received a letter by email from Virgin Money. It said, We still havent 
received the payment due for your Virgin Money credit card. There was no account 
information on the letter to show which account was being referred to. In the following 
weeks, he received other letters and texts asking him to call Virgin as it hadnt been able to 
contact him. 
Between 4 April and 14 May, Mr R phoned Virgin several times, with one call lasting about 
75 minutes.  
On 19 April, Mr R says he received a credit card statement from Virgin Money for what had 
been the Yorkshire Bank credit card, saying he had failed to make his minimum payment. 
This is when Mr R realised that he had been paying into the wrong credit card account. Mr R 
says the Yorkshire Bank card had previously been on the Virgin Money app but had 
disappeared earlier in the year. He had not intended to use that card because the 0% 
interest period had finished and he had paid the account off. However, the account number 
had been linked to a public transport provider which had continued to take payments. 
Mr R says he immediately cleared the outstanding balance. 
On 10 May Mr R received a letter from the Virgin Money branch manager, which Mr R says 
he found threatening:
I refer to our letters dated the 12th and 26th April to which we do not appear to have 
received a reply.
If we do not receive a response within the next 14 days then the Bank will have no 
alternative but to ask you to make alternative banking arrangements.
We look forward to speaking to you shortly. 
On 16 June, Virgin Money sent Mr R its formal response to his complaint. In this, the 
complaint handler said they were unable to locate the letter that Mr R had found threatening. 
They apologised for causing upset. However, the Virgin Money customer service agents had 
not had access to the Yorkshire Bank system, which is why they hadnt been able to explain 
why Mr R had received the letter. They said the two banks were being brought together, and 
the products of each bank were being aligned to those of Virgin Money. They said they did 
make customers aware of this migration via email on several occasions. The letter also said, 
you were offered £25.00 by one of our agents which I am honouring.
Virgin Money has provided a log of the emails it sent to Mr R between December and 
February about the Yorkshire Bank card migration and the new app, and says that some of 
these emails were notified as having been opened.  Virgin Money has sent us a copy of one 
of its template letters which notified about the change.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint should 
be upheld. They said:
it does remain [Mr Rs] responsibility to manage his accounts and pay his bills on 
time. Though I do feel that [Virgin Money] didnt handle the situation fairly or 
provide [Mr R] with the service he shouldve received. Several times he contacted 
[Virgin Money] to find out why there were demands for payments as he believed he 
had paid towards the correct card and [Virgin Money] were unable to provide an 
explanation. So, I think for the service failure [Mr R] has experienced, [Virgin Money] 
should pay a further £50 for the trouble and upset caused on top of the £25 already 
issued. 
Mr R didnt agree that this was a fair outcome, saying he should be given a written apology 
and paid £5,000 for the stress and worry he experienced over an extended period.  As Mr R 
didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make a decision.
When I looked at the case I reached a slightly different conclusion to that of the investigator, 
and I thought Virgin Money should make a higher payment in compensation. Because this 
was a change to what the investigator said, my decision was at this stage provisional, and I 
invited further comment and evidence. This is what I said in my provisional decision: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Mr R was responsible for making sure his credit card 
bill was paid. And it was down to Mr R that some transactions continued to be 
charged to his old card after he thought hed stopped using it. This was a contributory 
factor in the confusion that caused the mistake. 
But I think Virgin Money contributed significantly to the error. I can see why Mr R was 
confused by the reminder he received on 31 March. This was from Virgin Money to 
pay your credit card, but it had no indication which card it related to. This was 
especially confusing as it was when the branding of the card was changing from that 
of Yorkshire Bank to a uniform Virgin Money for all cards, which Mr R may not have 
fully noticed.
I dont think the earlier communications about the change in branding were enough to 
avoid this confusion, especially as it appears that Mr R may have needed to take a 
specific action to bring both cards on to the same app. In addition, Mr R has sent us 
a screen shot which suggests it wasnt clear that the other card was, by one point, in fact present on the app  he says he only discovered his old Yorkshire Bank card on 
the app when he pressed a button. From the screen shot I dont think the button gave 
any idea of its purpose. 
The different brands had been brought together under the Virgin Money name, but it 
appears that staff in the different sections of the organisation were not able to see 
account information for the different accounts. This meant that one area of the 
organisation believed Mr R was failing to communicate or pay his bill, whilst at the 
same time Mr R was spending significant time communicating with Virgin Money but 
not realising information was not reaching the relevant people. He phoned the 
number given to him in the letter that threatened to withdraw banking facilities, but 
the staff on the number were unaware of what the letter was referring to. 
Even when Mr R eventually received a formal response, the complaint handler was 
unable to comment on the threatening letter because she did not have access to it. 
The complaint response did not give an explanation of what went wrong. It admitted 
no real failures by Virgin Money and offered no real apology. I can understand why 
Mr R was upset by it. 
Given what I have said, I dont think the compensation of £75 previously proposed is 
adequate. 
Mr R has suffered a loss of time which he would have wanted to spend on better 
things, but there is no suggestion he has unavoidably lost earnings. I dont see that 
Mr R has suffered a financial loss but, instead, he has suffered stress, upset and 
considerable inconvenience. 
It is always difficult to settle on a sum that would enable a person to feel 
compensated when they have suffered upset, stress and a wasting of their time.  But 
Ive taken into account that Mr R experienced:
Virgin Moneys repeated poor communication, which contributed significantly 
to his accidental non-payment; 
failures in internal systems that meant staff couldnt diagnose the error; 
an unwarranted letter threatening withdrawal of banking services; and 
failure to resolve the matter adequately during the formal complaint process. 
(As the handling of the complaint was part of the provision of a financial 
service, I am satisfied I can take this into account when considering redress.)
This means Mr R has suffered more than a simple administrative error and so I think 
the £75 already proposed would not be sufficient. Mr R has experienced several 
errors, albeit small by themselves, but with the cumulative effect that he has had to 
make quite some effort to put things right and has inevitably been caused upset as 
well. In such circumstances I would normally consider redress of £200 to be fair and 
reasonable. 
I said that, if I confirmed my view of the case, I would be likely to say that Clydesdale 
Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should:
Pay Mr R a total of £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (less any 
amount that may already have been paid in compensation).Make sure that Mr R has not suffered an adverse credit record as a result of the 
delay in paying his Yorkshire Bank credit card  and, if he has, it must take action to 
correct the record. 
In response Mr R said he would be happy with the proposed outcome. Clydesdale (Virgin 
Money) did not say explicitly that it disagreed with my decision but wrote to point out what it 
said were some inaccuracies. Its points included:
Toggling between cards on the app is easy and, unlike Mr R, many customers had 
experienced no issues with this process. 
Its not a failure in the internal system that bank staff, who answered the phone 
number Mr R called, were unable to access information about his credit card, as 
credit cards are managed by a different specialist team. The bank says Mr R has 
been provided with the cards telephone numbers and these are identified on our 
website.
The letter of 10 May 2022 was sent by a branch manager and should not be 
considered as part of this complaint as the bank sent a separate response to Mr R on 
19 May 2022 explaining why it had sent that letter. Clydesdale has given me a copy 
of the response letter of 19 May. From that, although it isnt totally clear, it appears 
the letter of 10 May was because the branch wanted to confirm some of Mr Rs 
personal details, and needed to speak to him directly. 
The Clydesdale bank representative responding to my provisional decision also said they 
themselves do not have access to the letter of 10 May 2022 (which I have quoted from, 
above). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Clydesdale has made, but it hasnt changed my overall view of the 
complaint. From the point of view of Mr R as a customer, he believed he was dealing with a 
single entity, and this belief was encouraged with a single brand and by him being given a 
single phone number to call in response to the communications he was receiving. He 
received a number of communications which were unclear or confusing. But the organisation 
of the bank internally meant customer advisers did not have the information needed to help 
Mr R sort out his problem.
Even if Mr R was later told the threatening letter was not related to the confusion over 
paying his credit card, at the time and in the context of everything else, it will have added to 
his confusion and frustration. Even without that letter, I think he would have been caused 
some worry and confusion by how Clydesdale handled things. 
So I remain of the view that what I outlined in my provisional decision is fair to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should:
Pay Mr R a total of £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (less any 
amount that may already have been paid in compensation).Make sure that Mr R has not suffered an adverse credit record as a result of the 
delay in paying his Yorkshire Bank credit card  and, if he has, it must take action to 
correct the record. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) to provide redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman