DRN-3285300
The complaint
S complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) unfairly declined its professional indemnity 
insurance claim.
What happened
S is a partnership of independent financial advisors (IFAs). It held an IFA protection policy 
with Zurich, which was incepted on 28 May 2012. S sought to make a claim on its policy 
after one of its clients (Mr E) claimed that he had received negligent financial advice when 
it advised him to invest a large sum of money into a commercial property portfolio, which 
resulted in a complaint being referred to this service. 
Mr E first raised his dissatisfaction about the performance of his fund at a social function he 
attended with one Ss partners in October 2010. This verbal complaint prompted S to write a 
letter to Mr E on 3 November 2010, where it denied liability and addressed the concerns he 
had raised at the social function. But it did not treat this as a formal complaint at the time.
S hadnt heard anything further on the matter until it received a letter from Mr Es solicitor in 
February 2013, which formally claimed that it was at fault for the losses he had incurred 
owing to the collapse of the fund he invested in. This letter also advised S to notify its 
professional indemnity insurer. 
S considered Mr Es complaint at the time but did not uphold it. It then didnt hear anything 
further on the matter until early 2016 when Mr E referred his complaint to this service. A final 
decision was eventually issued by this service in July 2020 upholding Mr Es complaint, 
where the ombudsman found that S had provided unsuitable advice and was therefore 
responsible for his losses.
Following the ombudsmans decision, S sought to claim on its professional indemnity policy. 
However, Zurich declined the claim because they said it had first been made against S in 
2010, which is before the policys inception. They also said it would constitute a prior 
circumstance, which S ought to have disclosed in the insurance proposal, such that it would 
also be excluded from cover. S complained that this was unfair and referred the matter to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that the verbal altercation S 
had with Mr E in 2010 constituted a prior circumstance that ought to have been disclosed to 
Zurich on its insurance proposal. So she didnt think they had acted unfairly by declining the 
claim. S disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Jurisdiction
First, Ive considered whether this service has jurisdiction to consider Ss complaint, 
including whether it constitutes an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.3 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. There is no dispute that S satisfies the 
criteria for a micro-enterprise under the rules. But there are certain exceptions that 
apply to regulated firms, such as being a professional client, which could be relevant 
here due to S being an FCA authorised firm itself.
DISP 2.7.9 sets out a number of exceptions to the definition of an eligible 
complainant. It says that for a complaint within our compulsory jurisdiction (which is 
the case here) a complainant who was a professional client in relation to the firm 
and activity in question at the time of the act or omission which is the subject of the 
complaint is not an eligible complainant. 
However, Im satisfied that this exception does not apply here because, although S 
may fit the definition of a professional client in line with COBS 3.5, it is not a 
professional client in relation to the firm and the activity in question, given that S is a 
partnership of independent financial advisors who give investment advice (whereas 
the activity in question in this complaint is the effecting and carrying out of a contract 
of insurance, which S does not do). 
Ive further considered whether theres any other parts of the DISP rules that might 
mean S is not an eligible complainant in this instance. But there isnt. So Im satisfied 
I have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
Merits
In their final response, Zurich said that Ss claim would not be covered because the 
claim was not made against it during the period of insurance  with Zurich 
categorising the claim as being the discussion S had with Mr E during the social 
function in October 2010.
However, the policy defines a claim as being a:
 Demand for or an assertion of a right to civil compensation or civil damages 
or an intimation of an intention to seek such compensation or damages.
Theres little evidence to demonstrate exactly what was discussed between S and 
Mr E in 2010, or whether there was any demand for compensation made at that time, 
or even an intimation of an intention to seek compensation.
The letter S sent in November 2010 confirms that Mr E had raised concerns about 
the value of his ACE investment and said that S had erred by recommending it in 
2002. But there was nothing to suggest that he had intimated an intention to pursue 
S for damages at that stage.
It then wasnt until Mr Es letter of February 2013 that a clear intention to seek 
compensation was made. So Im not persuaded that the verbal altercation in 2010 
can reasonably constitute a claim in line with the policy definition in these 
circumstances, although the February 2013 letter inevitably would. 
Zurich have further sought to decline the claim on the basis that its excluded due to 
the non-disclosure of material particulars, of which the policy states:
In the event of misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure:
a) of any material particular at the inception of this policy or from the time of any 
variation in cover including at renewal we may at out discretion waive our right to avoid this policy but exclude the consequences of any matter which 
ought to have been disclosed to us. 
The policy states that it excludes: 
19. Prior Circumstances and Claims
Liability arising from:
a) any circumstance that:
i) You knew or that in our reasonable opinion you ought to have known 
prior to inception of this policy which may give rise to a claim 
against you; 
ii) was notified by you under any other insurance policy prior to inception 
of this policy;
iii) was disclosed or in our reasonable opinion ought to have been 
disclosed on your latest proposal to us.
Zurich submit that S failed to disclose the matter of Mr Es verbal complaint in 2010, 
which they consider to have been a material prior circumstance. They decided to 
waive their right to void the policy in this instance but have declined to cover the 
claim. So Ive considered whether the verbal altercation in 2010 can reasonably 
constitute a prior circumstance such that it can fairly be excluded from cover. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded that it can.
A circumstance is defined by the policy as an:
Incident, occurrence, fact, matter, act or omission that may give rise to a 
claim.
S does not consider the incident in 2010 to be a circumstance as he wrote to Mr E 
on both 22 October 2010 and 3 November 2010 about the matter and didnt receive 
any response. So it thought that was the end of the matter.
The assessment of whether a claim might arise is an objective assessment based on 
the actual knowledge possessed by the insured at the time  see the Court of Appeal 
judgment in Zurich Insurance PLC v MacCaferri Ltd [2016] EWCA Civ 1302. I 
appreciate the MacCaferri case concerned a policy term that excluded claims that 
were likely to give rise to a claim (as opposed to what may give rise to a claim in this 
instance) but Im satisfied the same principles apply. 
Due to the nature of investments and their often-unpredictable nature, an IFA may 
sometimes find themselves faced with customers who are unhappy with how their 
investments have performed. But just because a client is unhappy with their 
investment, it does not mean the IFA would need to treat each and every verbal 
expression of dissatisfaction as a potential claim for compensation or damages. 
Zurich say that S should have disclosed the 2010 incident at the social function as it 
was possible that a claim may have materialised (which I accept it subsequently did). 
But on Zurichs interpretation of this policy term, an IFA would then be expected to 
remember and disclose every single discussion theyve ever had with a customer 
where some dissatisfaction was voiced about the performance of an investment or the advice provided, which I do not think is a reasonable position to take. That is 
unless there was reasonable cause to think that a claim might arise from any such 
prior incidents (for example, if a client had clearly intimated an intention to seek 
damages in any prior discussion, this would clearly be something to be taken more 
seriously). But in this case, I dont think there was sufficient cause for S to think this 
at the time it took out the policy with Zurich in May 2012.
S says it was satisfied that it bore no responsibility for Mr Es loss because there was 
a change in advisor before there was any decline in the value of the fund. It thought 
that it had clarified these matters in its letter of 3 November 2010 and that this was 
the end of it. S then didnt hear anything further until 2013, and theres also no 
evidence to suggest that Mr E gave any prior indication he would be pursuing S for 
compensation at any point in the future. 
So, based on the knowledge possessed by S at the time, Im not satisfied the 
reasonable person would have thought a claim might arise by the time it incepted the 
policy with Zurich in May 2012. By that point, around 19 months had passed with no 
further follow up from Mr E. Therefore, I dont consider it to be fair and reasonable for 
Zurich to now decline the claim on the basis of the 2010 incident forming a prior 
circumstance. The claim itself (i.e. the demand for damages) was not made until 
February 2013, which was when the Zurich policy was on risk, so the insurer should 
consider the claim. 
Even if I were to accept that the 2010 incident did constitute a prior circumstance, Im 
still not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to decline the claim in 
any event, because they have not been able to demonstrate that the non-disclosure 
would have ultimately affected their underwriting (i.e. by inducing them to offer cover 
they would have otherwise declined, or have offered but at a higher premium). 
Indeed, when the policy was taken out in May 2012, it seems unlikely the insurer 
wouldve attached any great importance to the 2010 incident given that it concerned 
a verbal discussion where nothing further had been heard from the client in almost 
two years. 
As a result, Im not persuaded that Zurich have fairly declined Ss claim, so I intend 
directing the insurer to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. S responded accepting my 
provisional findings, but Zurich did not respond by the deadline set out in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party put forwards any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to 
reconsider Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman