DRN-3782331
The complaint
Ms R has complained about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with costs for 
alternative accommodation during a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R made a claim for an escape of water under her home insurance policy. esure accepted 
the claim. Ms R later complained to esure and then to this service because of issues with 
how her claim had been dealt with. An ombudsman at this service issued a final decision 
requiring esure to pay £2,500 compensation.
The claim remained ongoing and Ms R complained again. esure had found a further leak. It 
was agreed Ms R would move to alternative accommodation for two weeks. However, 
following that time, she remained in alternative accommodation because the outstanding 
work hadnt been completed. esure replied to the complaint. It said it had accepted a further 
claim for trace and access, but had told Ms R there was no cover for the pipes. However, it 
then agreed a 50% contribution for the work on the pipes as a gesture of goodwill. It didnt 
agree it was liable for any alternative accommodation costs at this stage of the claim. 
However, it offered a further £250 compensation.
So, Ms R complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said esure 
should pay the cost of the alternative accommodation. He said esure hadnt provided the 
requested evidence to show why its position was reasonable. He said esure also hadnt 
shown the delays which led to the works taking months to carry out were reasonable.
Following this, esure maintained that it had acted reasonably, but still didnt provide this 
service with the requested evidence. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This has clearly been a very lengthy claim. Im aware this service has already considered a 
complaint about how esure dealt with earlier parts of this claim. Im also aware that Ms R has 
continued to raise concerns with esure about her claim. This decision will focus on the 
complaint raised about the alternative accommodation following the second leak being 
found.
Ms R moved to alternative accommodation following issues being found with the floor that 
had been laid as part of the repairs under the claim. Both Ms R and esure seemed to expect 
this move to be for a two-week period. However, it ended up being considerably longer. 
esure has said it doesnt need to meet the additional accommodation costs because the 
second leak wasnt covered by the policy.
This service asked esure to provide evidence, including the trace and access report for the 
second leak and an explanation for why it thought this second leak wasnt part of the claim. 
esure didnt provide this. As a result, I havent seen evidence to show it was reasonable for 
esure to say this wasnt part of the claim. esure also didnt explain why it required Ms R to 
use its own contractors to replace the pipework if it didnt form part of the claim. It alsi didnt 
provide a full schedule of works to show what work was required, when esure expected this 
to be completed and why this then didnt happen. 
There was also the issue with the floor that was put down. It was when this was lifted that 
the second leak was found. esure has told this service that the contractor who laid the floor 
had accepted liability for not fitting the floor correctly and for its reinstatement. esure said 
issues related to this, including any delays, should be referred to the contractors public 
liability insurer. However, I note that the contractor was working for esure, so Im not 
persuaded that Ms R should deal with the contractor and its insurer directly. Ms Rs 
relationship was with esure. esure chose the contractors and its for esure to deal with any 
issues with those contractors itself, not to pass that on to Ms R.
Based on what Ive seen, esure agreed it was reasonable for Ms R to move to alternative 
accommodation. It hasnt provided the requested evidence to show why it thinks the second 
leak wasnt part of the claim. It also hasnt provided evidence to show why esure and 
contractors working on its behalf werent responsible for the delay that then prevented Ms R 
from moving back to her home. As a result, I uphold this complaint and require esure to pay 
the cost of Ms Rs alternative accommodation. esure must also pay interest on that amount, 
as Ms R lost use of that money.
Putting things right
esure must pay the cost of Ms Rs alternative accommodation and pay interest on that 
amount.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay the cost of Ms Rs alternative accommodation while she remained away from her 
home.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date of each payment Ms R made to the 
date on which esure Insurance Limited makes the payment to her.
If esure Insurance Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from this interest, it should tell Ms R how much interest its taken off. It should 
also provide Ms R, upon request, a tax certificate for the deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman