DRN-4140795
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), wont reimburse him for the 
money he lost when he made a payment to a business, which Mr L considers was a scam.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here. In summary, Mr L found a photography business (whom Ill call S) at a 
wedding fair. Mr L was advised that if he made payment in full, he would receive a £200 
discount. Mr L made a faster payment for £845 on 18 May 2022 which was the full amount 
for a wedding photography package for his upcoming wedding in 2023.
 
On 27 July 2022 S declared bankruptcy. Mr L contacted S and received an automatic email 
response that S had ceased trading.
Mr L considers that the S set out with intent to defraud him  that is to take money for 
services that S had no intention of providing. Mr L considers that he was the victim of a 
scam.
Mr L subsequently contacted his bank to see if there was anything it could do to help and to 
see if any funds could be recovered. NatWest declined reimbursing Mr L and so he referred 
the matter to our service.
An Investigator reviewed the matter. In short, they considered whether the faster payment 
Mr L made was covered under a voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019 and that NatWest is signed up 
to.
The CRM Code sets out when banks (so both sending banks and receiving banks) should 
reimburse a scam victim and it provides increased protection for customers who are the 
victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to every type of disputed payment. The 
CRM Code doesnt apply to disputes that are deemed to be a civil dispute between two 
parties. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they considered the matter was a civil 
dispute  and the CRM Code didnt apply to the payment Mr L had made. So they didnt 
consider NatWest was liable to refund Mr L for his losses.
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans review as the final stage of our process. 
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether the matter is a 
civil dispute. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Im very sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr L, I can see he made a payment for a 
photography package for his wedding and got nothing in return. So I can certainly 
understand Mr Ls sense of frustration about the matter and why he would consider that S, to 
his mind, defrauded him. 
However, not all cases where individuals have lost sums or havent received the goods or 
services they have paid for, are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which NatWest has signed up to and was in force 
at the time Mr L made this payment. And outside of the CRM Code, NatWest also has wider 
obligations to fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments, for example it doesnt cover civil disputes. It says;
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Our Investigator felt the payment Mr L made formed part of a civil dispute and, as such, is 
not covered by the CRM Code. Mr L disagrees. He feels S has scammed him.
In order to conclude that the payment Mr L made was part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that S was not legitimate and had set out 
with intent to defraud Mr L. But Im not persuaded, based on what Ive seen, that I can safely 
conclude that this is the case here. Its clear the agreement Mr L entered into with S didnt go as Mr L expected as S declared 
bankruptcy just over two months later and I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly 
about what has happened. But having considered everything provided, Im not persuaded, 
from what Ive seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say S set out with the intention 
to defraud Mr L at the time he made the payment.
S appeared to be a legitimate business, was VAT registered and had been trading for some 
time. And from the evidence Ive seen, seemingly it had previously been able to provide its 
services successfully and satisfactorily to customers (in the main). 
Clearly S encountered financial difficulty which ultimately led to it declaring bankruptcy and 
being placed into the hands of the official receiver. However I am not persuaded that I can 
safely conclude there was intent from S to never provide the services Mr L paid for at the 
time he made the payment.
I note from the automatic email response S provided customers once it ceased trading that it 
stated:
It is with upmost sadness we would like to inform you that [S], has ceased trading. 
We will no longer be able to provide any of our services to you at your wedding.
We have tried so hard the last couple of years to survive the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
financial implications have proven too much for us to get over.
Unfortunately, I have been left with no choice but to cease trading and declare 
bankruptcy as of today, July 27. An official receiver will be in touch with further 
information.
NB, if you have had a wedding with us in the last 12 weeks and are still waiting for 
your photos/ video, we will be in touch over the coming weeks with the information on 
how you can get access to your photo and video files. We appreciate this isn't ideal 
but we will be in touch with the relevant information asap.
I apologise as this is going to cause stress and I am extremely sorry for this. 
Unfortunately there was never going to be a good time.
I have listed below a group of recommended photographers, videographers and 
mirror booth companies who may be able to help on your day. Please note these 
people are in no way affiliated to [S] and you will be booking them in a completely 
separate entity.
It seems that S, while struggling financially, was trying to continue its business. I am not in 
the position to say whether that was fair or not and ultimately it was the commercial decision 
of the business itself. 
The question I have to ask is whether there was intent by S to defraud Mr L from the outset, 
and Im not persuaded there was. S were a legitimate business that was VAT registered and 
from the automatic email response above suggests it was still operating at the time Mr L had 
made payment to it  as they were seeking to process photos and videos for customers who 
had had their wedding in the previous 12 weeks.
 Overall, I dont find that this is indicative of a business setting out with intent to defraud 
people. I also note S also used sub-contractors with one sub-contractor within a news article 
advising that around six weeks prior to the bankruptcy, payments for invoices had slowed.  
Bearing in mind S declared bankruptcy on 27 July 2022 it seems as though they were still 
operating and providing services to customers at the time Mr L made his payment to it on 
18 May 2022.
To my mind, I cant safely say that at the time Mr L made payment to S, there was clear 
intent to defraud Mr L. Moreover it seems it was a failing business that was trying to keep 
operating.
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what Ive seen, S 
set out with the intent to defraud Mr L at the time he made the payment. This being the case 
Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask NatWest to refund the money Mr L 
has lost.
I am also satisfied that there wasnt anything else NatWest could have done to either prevent 
the loss or recover the funds. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has provided information from a social media website / forum that 
was set up as a result of S declaring bankruptcy. And within that some customers were 
refunded by their banks. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may 
seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances.  
Refunds may have been done on a gesture of goodwill basis. And I am also mindful that 
where some customers may have paid by debit or with credit card there are other schemes 
available that offer customers protection such as chargeback or Section 75 provided by 
Visa and Mastercard which some customers may have benefited from. However those 
schemes unfortunately arent applicable to faster payments. Here, as Im required to do, in 
reaching my decision Ive solely looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Ls complaint.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask NatWest to refund the money Mr L has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman