DRN-2835034
The complaint
Mr H complains that advice given by Pi Financial Limited to transfer the benefits of his 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension wasnt in his best interests.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC), but for ease 
of reading Ill mainly refer to Mr H.
What happened
In late 2016 on the recommendation of a friend, Mr H contacted Simon Hodge Financial 
Planning for advice about his pension. This firm is a trading style of Pi Financial Limited 
(Pi) so Pi is responsible for answering the complaint, and in the decision Ill just refer to Pi.
At the time Mr H had deferred benefits in a defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) from his employment with C where hed worked from 1992 to 1998. Hed made 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to his plan from 1997. The transfer value of this 
plan including the AVCs was around £90,881. Mr H also had a defined contribution group 
personal pension plan from his employment with W where hed worked between 2001 and 
2005 valued at around £55,062. So the total value of these plans was around £145,943. Mr 
H also had a number of other personal pension plans which dont form part of this decision. 
The fact find completed at the time recorded his circumstances as:
Aged 61 and married;
Unemployed, his only income was welfare benefits of £3,800 a year;
Outstanding mortgage of around £29,000, but no other debts;
Cautious attitude to risk
Planned to retire at 65;

Pi produced a transfer analysis and suitability report which compared the benefits of Mr Hs 
existing plans with what hed be likely to receive if he transferred them to a personal 
pension. This found the critical yield of 18.77% was unachievable, so it recommended 
against the transfer. 
Despite this, Mr H wished to proceed in order to utilise the tax-free cash to repay his 
mortgage, which meant Pi treating him as an insistent client. On 4 January 2017 Mr H sent 
Pi a letter explaining his reasons for the transfer. He signed Pis insistent client forms on 
9 January 2017 and the transfer forms were signed on 16 January 2017. The transfer went 
ahead to a provider Ill call R releasing the tax-free lump sum. The remainder after 
deducting Pis advice fee, was invested in a flexi-access drawdown plan, in line with Mr Hs 
attitude to risk, which had been assessed as cautious 3 out of 10. Mr H said he didnt need 
income from his pension until he actually retired, as his intention was to resume working.  
In July 2020 Mr H via his representatives complained to Pi that hed been given negligent 
advice. Mr H said he didnt recall being advised against the transfer, nor was he told about 
the guaranteed benefits at retirement hed be giving up. 
Pi rejected the complaint, saying the adviser had recommended against the transfer, but Mr 
H had wished to proceed regardless to repay his mortgage. The adviser suggested Mr H 
take benefits from two of his personal pensions rather than transfer the OPS plans with C 
and W, but Mr H said he could deal with those himself, so wanted the adviser to focus on the 
two OPS plans.
Mr H had told Pi he didnt need income from his pension until retirement, and just wished to 
access the tax-free cash to repay his mortgage. But in fact he had subsequently made 
several withdrawals from his fund in the years following the transfer without the advisers 
knowledge, eventually exhausting the fund. Pi maintains Mr H completely understood the 
benefits hed be giving up and believe the CMC misrepresented what happened. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service in September 2020. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Mr H had been made aware 
of the guaranteed benefits hed be giving up, and the inherent risks involved in transferring to 
a personal pension. But he wanted to go ahead regardless in order to repay his mortgage, 
so she didnt think it was unfair of Pi to have considered him an insistent client. 
Mr H disagreed, saying he didnt understand the term insistent client, he doesnt recall the 
disadvantages of transferring being explained to him, and being unemployed he felt rushed 
and under pressure to sign the forms. 
So he asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why
The approach of this service when considering transfers from defined benefit pension 
schemes aligns with the FCA guidance (COBS 19.1.6G), which is the assumption they will 
generally not be suitable. 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should: 
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and 
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests. 
So if a consumer wishes to transfer the guaranteed benefits from a defined benefit pension, 
an adviser must demonstrate that this is in their best interests based on their individual 
circumstances. 
Mr H was 61 and unemployed at the time of the advice, with his only income being benefits 
of around £300 per month. Although he hoped to resume working in the future, hed like to 
reduce the household outgoings. So he wanted to the release the pension commencement 
lump sum (PCLS), commonly known as tax-free cash (TFC) from the combined pension 
schemes with C and W to repay his mortgage. But Mr H didnt need an income, so until he 
officially retired he wished his pension to remain invested, an option not available if he took 
benefits from his OPS with C. The TFC from that scheme alone wouldnt quite clear the 
outstanding mortgage balance of £29,000 which was due to be repaid in full in 2020 (the 
fact-find recorded that the mortgage was taken out in 2015 with a five-year term).At the 21 December 2016 meeting, the adviser completed a personal financial questionnaire 
(fact-find) with information provided by Mr H (Mrs H wasnt present). I can see that in several 
places through the document the adviser had written that he strongly advised against 
transferring, or that transferring would have a detrimental impact on Mr Hs income in 
retirement. Mr H was required to sign the report at the end to confirm the information was 
correct to the best of his knowledge. But in addition I can see Mr H has signed, in at least 
five separate places throughout the document, under the advisers notes to evidence he has 
read and understood the points. So Im satisfied Mr H was advised from the outset the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests and hed likely be worse off in retirement. 
Pi produced a Pension Transfer Report dated 6 January 2017, and a further meeting with 
the adviser took place on 9 January 2017 at which the findings were discussed. The Pi 
advisers recommendation letter dated 10 January 2017 says it was based on information 
captured at meetings on 21 December 2016 and 9 January 2017 and told Mr H if he 
disagreed with anything he should let the adviser know. As far as Im aware Mr H didnt 
challenge anything recorded in the report until his complaint in 2020. 
The letter set out that Mr H wished to repay his outstanding mortgage to reduce his monthly 
outgoings and boost his savings, but he didnt need to take benefits until he officially retired 
in the future. It set out that the adviser strongly recommended against the transfer due to the 
critical yield of 18.77% being unrealistic, the short-term benefit to his finances by repaying 
his mortgage wouldnt outweigh the detriment to his retirement income, and transferring 
would mean Mr H would lose the security and guarantees of the existing schemes.
It said I have explained that taking these benefits early will have a detrimental effect on 
your income at retirement and that you should consider other alternatives rather than taking 
a lump sum from your pension. But you are absolutely adamant that you want to access the 
lump sum from your pension without having to take an income and you want me to arrange 
this for you ASAP. It said the adviser had urged [Mr H] to reconsider as delaying 
accessing the pension would make him significantly better off in retirement. And using the 
TFC to increase his savings to provide a buffer for the future would have a detrimental 
effect on your pension and income in retirement, however you are adamant this is your 
priority. 
If this wasnt Mr Hs understanding of the discussion Id have expected him to challenge this 
at the time. 
The letter also sets out the advisers suggestions of alternative solutions to address the 
outstanding mortgage, including downsizing, equity release, taking an unsecured loan and 
borrowing from family or friends, but Mr H didnt wish to consider any of those options. And 
he was clear he didnt wish to take benefits from his OPS at that time. Transferring both 
plans would release TFC of around £36,486 sufficient to clear the mortgage with some left 
over to alleviate the pressure on his finances. If Mr H chose not to transfer, his OPS from his 
employment with C would provide Mr H with TFC of around £13,762, an annual pension of 
£2,064 at retirement, and after his death his wife would receive a spouse pension of £1,436 
a year. Death benefits werent recorded as the priority for Mr H, but his wife would receive a 
50% spouse pension from the OPS, whereas by transferring the entire residual fund would 
pass to his family. 
Under Recommendation the adviser says I have recommended you keep your benefits in 
the existing scheme.. and goes on to explain the risks, which include not being able to 
re-join the OPS once he left, the unrealistic investment returns, the loss of indexation and a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension and the risk of the funds running out in retirement. Having provided its professional advice, Pi wasnt obliged to assist Mr H further. Instead Pi 
was prepared to facilitate the transfer for Mr H on an insistent client basis. An insistent 
client is defined as:
a client who has received a personal recommendation (advice) from the business;
who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the
business; and
who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
In early 2016 the regulator had issued fact sheet number 35, explaining to advisers its 
position on insistent clients, following the pension freedoms reforms in 2015.
Among other things this explained the advice should cover three points (in summary):
1. The advice must follow the usual process, in that it is suitable for the individual client, 
and the reasons made clear to the client;
2. The adviser must be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of 
action. And for a pension transfer COBS 19.1 (presumption of unsuitability) would 
apply;
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against the advisers advice.
From what Ive seen the information provided to Mr H satisfied those three points. It was 
tailored to his individual circumstances, it was written in clear language, the risks and 
drawbacks were explained, and Mr H was told on many occasions the transfer was against 
the advisers recommendation. The guidance also says There is no rule to prevent 
advisers transacting business against their advice if the client insists so while Pi couldve 
refused to facilitate the transfer for Mr H, I cant say they should have.
Mr H says he didnt understand what being an insistent client meant, and his representatives 
say the letters he signed were pre-drafted and not in his own words. Ive seen two typed 
letters both dated 4 January 2017 signed by Mr H. The first states Mr H is aware the adviser 
recommended he take no action, but that he is adamant transferring to release the TFC is 
the only way to achieve his objectives.  The other letter which is in a different typeface is 
headed with the names of the two pension schemes Ive called C and W. This letter read I 
fully understand that it is bad advice to move my pension and that you have NOT given me 
advice to do so..  It continues You have explained to me that I will be giving up 
significant benefits and goes on to list these, including A much more secure final pension 
benefit. The final section includes the wording I am moving [the pension] at my own 
request. I also confirm that you have in no way influenced my decision and that you did in 
fact strongly advise me against doing so.
Both these letters are signed by Mr H, but the inclusion of a handwritten cross in the 
signature space suggests they could be pre-printed, with the cross indicating where Mr H 
should sign. The regulator was concerned that a pre-printed letter or disclaimer form could 
be seen by the client as just another form to sign. But it said If the client uses their own 
words to indicate that they want to act against your advice, this would normally be clear.
Pi has provided a copy of a handwritten letter from Mr H dated 4 January 2017 addressed to 
the adviser, confirming hed received the letter explaining why he (Mr H) should leave his 
pension where it is, but that he wants to take the TFC to repay his mortgage without taking 
an income which his OPS doesnt allow. It ends I understand this will have an effect on the 
pension I receive at retirement. However I still require the lump sum to pay off my mortgage. 
I think this satisfies the requirement for Mr H to set out in his own words that he fully 
understood the risks inherent in transferring a final salary pension, but wanted to proceed 
regardless. If Mr H had simply signed some pre-printed forms and letters it wouldnt necessarily verify 
hed read the contents and understood the implications of what he was agreeing to. But as 
well as signing the end of the fact find report, Mr H had to read the advisers handwritten 
notes and sign in several places where warnings were given, to show he acknowledged and 
understood. And he wrote a letter in his own words that he understood the benefits hed be 
giving up in order to achieve his objective of repaying his mortgage without being required to 
take benefits from his OPS. So even if he didnt fully understand why he was being treated 
as an insistent client, Im satisfied he was aware he was acting against Pis professional 
advice, he understood the risks and implications and was clear and consistent in what he 
wanted to do. 
Mr H signed the transfer paperwork provided by the ceding schemes and the suitability 
report dated 10 January 2017 on 16 January 2017. He also signed underneath the advisers 
handwritten notes on 16 January 2017 which summarised the advice as follows: 
Advise to keep all existing schemes intact for best benefits at retirement;
Drawdown would maximise PCLS but pension would not be guaranteed
Mr H complains that the transfer was arranged in two short meetings, so he felt rushed and 
under pressure. Ive seen no evidence of how long each meeting was. But according to the 
adviser, Mr H had proactively contacted him on several occasions as he was keen to access 
his pension, and prior to the 21 December 2016 meeting there had been an initial meeting to 
explain the process and sign the letters of authority the adviser needed to obtain information 
from the ceding schemes. The file shows correspondence as early as November 2016 which 
supports this. Pi also says each meeting lasted significantly longer than 15-20 minutes, and I 
think a meeting to discuss two pension transfers is likely to take longer than that. 
Even if I discount the initial meeting which looks like it was in November 2016, Mr H met the 
adviser on 21 December 2016, wrote/signed the insistent client letters on 4 January 2017, 
had a further meeting on 9 January 2017 at which he signed the insistent client forms, he 
signed the transfer forms, the 10 January 2017 suitability report and the Retirement Options 
report on 16 January 2017. Which means the process took about a month, with gaps 
between each stage giving Mr H time to reflect on his decision and discuss it with his wife 
and others if he wished. Ive seen no evidence Pi rushed or put pressure on him, and if Mr H 
had second thoughts and decided not to sign the transfer forms provided by the 
administrators of the C and W schemes, the transfer couldnt have gone ahead. 
But from everything Ive seen its clear Mr H wanted to transfer his pensions to release the 
TFC to repay his mortgage, and I think its likely regardless of what Pi said hed have opted 
to transfer. Even if Pi refused to facilitate the transfer, as Mr H had received regulated 
financial advice from Pi he could simply have found another firm to arrange the transfer for 
him. And Pi understood that once hed repaid his mortgage, Mr H would leave the remaining 
funds invested for growth, as he didnt need to take an income, and intended to resume 
working. This is what Mr H told the adviser as reflected in the fact-find which hed signed to 
say was correct to the best of his knowledge, so I think Pi was entitled to rely on it. 
Once the transfer had taken place, Mr H contacted R without Pis input, and arranged 
several withdrawals from his drawdown fund, eventually totally depleting it. From March 
2017 Mr H arranged monthly withdrawals of £500 or £1,000, he took several larger lump 
sum withdrawals (of £2,500, £4,000 and £5,000), and in June 2017 a pension strip of 
£50,575 until the fund was completely exhausted in April 2019. Mr H hasnt explained why 
he needed this money, apart from the suggestion by the CMC that some of it repaid a car 
loan (which wasnt mentioned in the fact-find). Mr H told Pi he didnt need pension income 
until retirement (at age 65), and I understand he did secure a new job at some point. Its true 
to say transferring enabled Mr H to access his pension funds, which he couldnt had he remained in the OPS. But he also wouldnt have been able to repay his mortgage early, 
saving interest and relieving pressure on his finances, while his only income was from 
welfare benefits. 
In my view, Pi provided Mr H with suitable advice and the information it provided was clear, 
fair and not misleading, enabling him to make an informed choice. Pi didnt recommend the 
transfer and facilitated it on Mr Hs behalf, on the understanding he would only release the 
TFC to repay his mortgage, with the remaining funds being invested for his retirement in line 
with his cautious attitude to risk so he wasnt exposed to unnecessary risk. I dont think the 
evidence shows he was rushed or pressurised into making a decision. 
Mr Hs annual pension from his defined benefit OPS with C at his normal retirement date, 
although guaranteed and index-linked, was modest. Despite the warnings given by Pi I dont 
think his future security in retirement wouldve been enough to outweigh Mr Hs need to 
reduce his outgoings to ease his immediate financial pressure. And I think Mr Hs behaviour 
in arranging the withdrawals direct with R, suggests he was comfortable taking financial 
decisions without relying on professional advice.
So for all those reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
Your text here
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman