DRN-1841884
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his data subject 
access request. He's unhappy too that the bank sent him a letter warning him that it might 
have to consider withdrawing banking facilities from him.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr A made a data subject access request by telephone. He was seeking in 
particular call notes and recordings in respect of an issue he'd raised earlier. Although that 
underlying issue was resolved, the subject access request wasn't processed. Mr A followed 
up on the request on several occasions before finally telling Barclays that he didn't want to 
proceed with it. 
Barclays did however process a subject access request and provided Mr A with information 
it held about him. Mr A complained that, since he'd withdrawn his initial request, the bank 
had acted without his permission and in breach of relevant data protection legislation. 
Barclays accepted that it hadn't handled Mr A's requests as well as it should have done. 
But it also took the view that Mr A had been rude and obstructive to its staff and so wrote 
to him to warn him that it might have to consider closing his accounts.   
Barclays offered Mr A £50 in compensation, which it later increased to £100, in respect of 
the data protection issues. It didn't consider it was unreasonable to have sent the warning 
letter, however, and declined Mr A's request to withdraw it. Mr A didn't accept the bank's 
offer and referred his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. 
The investigator thought that the bank's offer in respect of the data handling issues was fair 
in the circumstances. He didn't feel that Barclays had treated Mr A unfairly by warning him 
about the possibility of ending its banking relationship with him. Mr A didn't accept the 
investigator's conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I shall keep my comments here fairly brief, in line with the ombudsman's role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. The fact that I don't comment on each and every point that Mr A 
and the bank have made is not an indication that I haven't considered them. 
Mr A says that he referred this matter to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), which 
upheld his complaint. However, Barclays agreed in any event that it hadn't handled matters 
as well as it should have done, so the main issue I have to consider is whether in the 
circumstances its offer of £100 went far enough. In my view it did. The bank didn't initially 
process Mr A's request. Although the ICO recommends that requests be made in writing, it's not a requirement, and so Mr A's oral request ought to have been treated in the same way 
as a written request would have been. 
Mr A followed up on his request and was clearly unhappy it hadn't been actioned. So, whilst 
he did tell the bank not to bother with it, I don't think it was unreasonable of Barclays to seek 
to resolve his concerns by providing him with the information he'd asked for. It was, after all, 
only providing him with information about himself.
As far as the warning letter is concerned, it's largely for banks to decide whether or not to 
provide or to continue to provide banking services to any particular customer. They may, for 
example, decide to end a relationship if they consider a customer's behaviour towards their 
staff warrants it. Barclays considered that Mr A's behaviour was such that it might consider 
ending the relationship; I don't believe that was an unreasonable view to take. And, having 
taken that view, I don't believe either that it was unreasonable of Barclays to warn Mr A that 
it had done so. In writing to Mr A in the terms it did, the bank was providing him with an 
opportunity to modify his behaviour so as to maintain the relationship.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to do anything further to resolve Mr A's complaint. I simply leave it to him to decide 
whether or not to accept the bank's offer of settlement - assuming it's still available. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman