DRN-2360850
The complaint
Mr J complains that Arrow Global Limited recorded the wrong default date on his credit file. 
What happened
On 14 December 2012 Arrow Global acquired a debt in Mr Js name from the original lender. 
Arrow says that when it acquired the debt, the account hadnt been defaulted by the original 
lender. In addition, at that time Mr J was making monthly payments of £8.54 that had been 
agreed via a third party debt advice service. 
Mr Js payments were set at £8.54 but in August 2014 the amount received reduced to £7.12 
and from September 2014 Arrow received £7.09. In September 2015 the payment reduced 
to £7.04. Arrow says that after Mr Js payments reduced, arrears began to accrue on his 
account. 
Arrow says that in August 2016 the account had reached a full three months in arrears which 
meant it was defaulted. Arrow reported the default on Mr Js credit file. 
In May 2020 Mr J complained that the default date was wrong. Mr J said the original lender 
had defaulted his account in 2010 and that the August 2016 default date wasnt right. Mr J 
has pointed out that the information will remain on his credit file for longer based on a default 
date of August 2016. 
Arrow responded to Mr Js complaint on 10 July 2020 but didnt agree the default date was 
wrong. Arrow said the account hadnt been defaulted by the original lender and that the 
decision to default it in August 2016 reflected the arrears. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Arrows decision to default the account in August 2016 was correct and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr J asked to appeal and said the account should have defaulted in August 
2014. Mr J said the default should have dropped off of his credit file in August 2020 and that 
he was worried about remortgaging. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J is concerned that the default date recorded isnt accurate or fair. Ive 
looked at everything on file to see whether Arrow has made an error in terms of the date it 
used. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but I think the August 2016 default date is correct. Ill 
explain why. 
The investigator and Arrow have both contacted the original lender to check whether the 
account was defaulted before it was sold. The evidence shows that whilst Mr Js account 
may have been behind, it wasnt defaulted. Ive looked at the account history from the 
original lender and I can see Mr J had agreed reduced repayments via a debt management 
plan. The original lender agreed to accept £8.54 a month, but didnt take the step of 
defaulting the account. 
The account was acquired by Arrow in December 2012 and that is the start date given in the 
entry on Mr Js credit file. When Arrow acquired the debt, the agreed monthly repayments 
were £8.54 a month. 
Mr Js DMP maintained that payment until August 2014 when it reduced to £7.12 and 
September 2014 when it reduced again to £7.09. From that point, arrears began to accrue 
on Mr Js account. Arrow says it defaults accounts when they are three months in arrears. 
Mr J has queried why Arrow waited until August 2016 to register the default. 
When Arrow says Mr Js account was three months in arrears in August 2016, it isnt 
referring to the length of time it was in arrears. The account reached three months in arrears 
when it was a full three payments behind. To explain further, when Mr Js payment reduced 
from £8.54 to £7.12 in August 2014 the difference in payment was £1.42. In September 2014 
Mr Js payment was £7.09 which added a further £1.45 to the arrears balance. Mr Js credit 
file shows that it took until February 2015 for his account to reach a full one month in 
arrears. 
In much the same way, Mr Js arrears continued to accrue over then following months by 
between £1.45 and £1.50 a month until the account had reached over three months in 
arrears and was defaulted. Whilst I understand Mr J is concerned at the length of time the 
default will remain on his credit file, Im satisfied the information on file shows 1 August 2016 
was the correct default date for his account. 
Mr J has told us hes concerned about the impact of the default on his ability to secure a 
remortgage. But, as Ive said above, I cant tell Arrow to amend Mr Js credit file unless I find 
its made an error. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied the default date is 
correct. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but as I havent found Arrow made an error and I 
think its dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman