DRN-3201282
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a payment to go through twice and 
have refused to refund the second payment. 
What happened
Mr A made a payment of £2,430 to a third party. Mr A says this payment was made by him 
only once but his account showed the payment had been duplicated. Mr A says he 
contacted Barclays Bank and was told there had been an IT system breakdown and the 
unauthorised second payment was their fault. Mr A says he was told by Barclays Bank they 
would refund his account and then carry out their payment recall process. Barclays Bank 
then claimed there hadnt been a banking error so Mr A complained.  
Barclays Bank responded and said, when Mr A made an online banking third party payment 
he received an error message asking him to check his account. Barclays Bank said the 
original payment was made successfully but, following receipt of an error message, Mr A 
then carried out the same transaction again. Barclays Bank said they had checked their 
records and confirmed this wasnt a duplicated payment error made by them but a separate 
payment made by Mr A. Barclays Bank explained Mr A had the responsibility to check his 
account before processing the payment again. Barclays Bank said Mr A had spoken with the 
recipient of the payments and confirmed he had received a credit of £352 into his account. 
They noted the recipient had refused to refund the full amount. Barclays Bank explained, as 
Mr A had been able to contact the recipient and request the refund for the overpayment, they 
couldnt set up a payment recall. Barclays Bank said this was now a civil matter and 
suggested organisations Mr A can contact for further help. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought there hadnt been any banking error 
by Barclays Bank. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here that two payments of £2,430 have been made from Mr As bank 
account to the same recipient. The dispute relates to whether this was down to an error by 
Barclays Bank. 
Barclays Bank say while Mr A was making the first payment, he received an error code 2 
along with a message. Barclays Bank have provided a screenshot of this message, which 
says, Sorry  we may not have been able to carry out your request. Please check your 
accounts and try again if necessary. Barclays Bank say this means the system has reported 
a processing error or timed out before completing the request. They say, in some cases, the 
customers request may still have gone through despite the error message. Barclays Bank 
say Mr A then proceeded to make a second payment for the same amount and to the same 
recipient a minute later. 
Barclays Bank say Mr A contacted them when he saw the payment had gone out twice and 
wanted the second one refunded. Barclays Bank say their agent spoke with the payment 
recalls team but was advised the best option was for Mr A to contact the recipient for a 
refund. Barclays Bank say they explained they couldnt do a recall but could escalate the 
matter as a complaint. Barclays Bank say their agent explained if it was proven to be a 
banking error then they would be responsible for the refund. 
The agent explained Mr A would need to call back in 24 hours if he wanted to pursue a recall 
request. Mr A called back the following day and was told any refund would need to be 
addressed through the complaints process. Barclays Bank say the complaint handler then 
called Mr A the following day and explained there hadnt been a bank error and the message 
he received was a warning to check whether the first payment had gone through. Barclays 
Bank say Mr A didnt check his account before making a second payment. 
Mr As bank statement shows two payments of £2,430 being made on the same day  one 
was made at 10.50am followed by another at 10.51am. This shows two separate payments 
rather than one payment inadvertently being sent twice at the same time. I think the key 
factor here is the message received by Mr A. I think the message is clear and doesnt give a 
guarantee about the first transaction having gone through. It says the payment may not 
have gone through and, importantly, recommends Mr A checks his account and to try again, 
if necessary. Mr A hasnt said that he did check his account prior to making a second 
payment. And, given that his bank statement shows the original transaction going out, I 
believe, had Mr A checked this, his account at the time wouldve shown a payment had 
already been made. 
I can see Mr A says the message he received said Error 44 and that the transaction hadnt 
been executed. Mr A says this led him to believe the first payment hadnt gone through  
and this is what led to him making the payment again. Barclays Bank have provided details 
of their Error 44 code for mobile banking and I can see this doesnt contain a message 
suggesting a transaction hasnt been executed. This code relates to exceeding a top-up limit. 
So, I dont believe this wouldve been the error message received by Mr A as it doesnt relate 
to a transaction potentially not going through. So, taking this all into account, I believe, on 
the balance of probabilities, given the situation which led to an automated error message 
being generated, its more likely than not Mr A received the error code 2 message. I would 
also add that, case notes provided by Barclays Bank show the complaint handler discussed 
with Mr A that he had received an error code 2 and I cant see Mr A challenges this at the 
time or suggests that he received a different error code.    
I understand Mr A is concerned Barclays Bank didnt initiate a recall when he first reported 
the issue to them. Barclays Bank say they cant guarantee they can recall any monies paid 
after a payment has been made. Barclays Bank say they couldve raised a recall on the day 
Mr A reported the issue however, in line with their process, they dont recommend a recall if 
the recipient is known to the sender  as was the case here. 
Ive seen this process document and this says Barclays Bank can contact the recipients 
bank to assist in contacting the recipient. But, it says Barclays Bank can only attempt to 
recall the funds if the recipient is not known to the customer. Barclays Bank believe that, 
even if a recall was initiated on that day, it wouldnt have led to the monies being returned to 
Mr A. I understand why Mr A feels Barclays Bank shouldve become involved at the outset and 
initiated a recall. But, our service doesnt have power to require a business to change their 
processes. Or to direct a business on what their process should be when dealing with 
recalls. Information provided by Barclays Bank shows that, when Mr A told them what 
happened, they explained they couldnt put a recall through the system until it had been 24 
hours but a complaint was registered for him. Mr A wasnt happy with this and phoned again 
the following day to request a recall but Barclays Bank explained any refund would need to 
be addressed through the complaints process. The following day, the complaints handler 
discussed the matter with Mr A and explained there hasnt been an error by them. 
The complaints handler asked Mr A whether he has been in contact with the recipient and 
Mr A confirmed he had and they had refunded £352. This is supported by Mr As bank 
statement which shows he received a refund of £352 direct from the recipient. Barclays Bank 
say if the recipient is reluctant to refund Mr A directly then they cannot be forced in to 
agreeing to release the monies through a recall. So, I think Barclays Bank did initially 
consider processing a recall and followed their process. But, once it became clear the 
recipient was known to Mr A and he had already provided a partial refund, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays Bank not to process the recall.  
Mr A does have my sympathy, and I understand he will be disappointed with my decision. 
Its clear a second payment was never intended to be made, and despite efforts on Mr As 
part, the recipient has only made a partial refund. But, I cant say there has been an error 
here by Barclays Bank so I wont be asking them to refund the difference to Mr A.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman