DRN-2891135
The complaint
Mr H complains that there was an error with Interactive Investor Services Limiteds (IISL) 
Phone App which caused him to make a trade he didnt intend to make.
What happened
On 13 November 2019 Mr H opened his IISL Phone App (the App) intending to carry out 
some trades in Tullow Oil Plc. He successfully carried out two buy orders through the App. 
He has said that there were some glitches with these two trades, but he was still able to 
place them.
However, he was initially unable to carry out a third trade because the App wouldnt allow 
him to input the purchase amount for the buy order that he has said he wanted to place. 
From the information he has provided including his recording of his attempts to trade the 
keyboard that appears on the page wasnt working so nothing happened when he tried to 
input £10,000, being the amount that he wanted to buy shares for. 
He ended up pressing the back arrow to go to the previous page on the App before 
attempting to input the cash amount on the following page again. From the information 
available he had to do this more than once before he was finally able to input the amount 
that he wanted. However, he had mistakenly pressed the sell button instead of the buy 
button on the previous page so that he sold shares instead of buying them as he wanted.
The sell order was executed at 8.41. Mr H realised at 9.22 that he had pressed sell when he 
meant to press buy and called IISL to try and sort this out. The person he spoke to was 
unable to help him.
He complained to IISL and in its final response to the complaint it said there was a reported 
issue with Apple users who had updated their operating system which meant changes to the 
on-screen keyboard impacted users of the App. 
However, it also pointed out that the buy and sell button was on a separate page to the one 
that Mr H experienced an issue with and said that as the problem didnt correlate to the 
trading issue  it said it executed the order correctly in accordance with Mr Hs instruction  it 
wasnt upholding the complaint. It did however offer to repay the commission of £7.99 on the 
sell order.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he made the following points:
IISL provided an execution only service to Mr H and as such Mr H took responsibility 
for all the decisions made and the risks.
IISLs terms of service made clear that if there was system malfunction, it wasnt 
responsible.
Mr H wasnt told by IISL it could fix the issue of him having made the wrong trade but 
at the time of the call it couldnt reverse or fix the trade.
The issue with the App may have caused Mr H to panic but it was solely his 
responsibility to check the transaction he was making was correct.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that IISL had said to him that the trade could 
have been reversed if it had been made aware of the issue within a certain timeframe. He 
said he spoke to them soon after the incident and at no time had they said the trade could be 
reversed.
He also said that he wasnt panicking as the investigator suggested, he said that he became 
confused. There was some further correspondence between Mr H and the investigator and 
Mr H said that the investigator hadnt dealt with the issue about him not being made aware 
that he could cancel the order when he first contacted IISL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IISL has confirmed that on the 13 November 2019 there was an issue for Apple users who 
had updated their operating system. It is more likely than not that Mr Hs inability initially to 
input the amount he wanted to pay for the shares he intended to buy was as a result of that 
issue.
I appreciate that Mr H had to deal with the App initially not allowing him to enter the amount 
he wanted to trade and that he had to go back to the previous page in the App and then 
back to the and page where he had to input the value of the trade he wanted to make, and 
he had to do this more than once. 
I accept this will have been frustrating at the time and I acknowledge what he has said about 
his current financial circumstances, which he puts down, in part, to the trade the subject of 
this complaint. It is understandable that he feels IISL is responsible for things going wrong 
but based on the evidence available I dont think that it is.
IISLs terms of service make clear that IISL isnt liable for any delay or any failure to perform 
any of its obligations where these are beyond its reasonable control. It sets out at Clause 
15.2.1 that circumstances beyond its reasonable control include failure, malfunction or 
unavailability of telecommunications, data communications and computer systems and 
services.
I think this makes it reasonably clear that, unless the problem with the App was within IISLs 
reasonable control, it wouldnt be responsible for any issue caused by that problem. I am not 
satisfied that the problem with the App was one within its reasonable control at the time Mr H 
placed his trade.
It isnt uncommon where firms offer online services and Phone Apps to customers that they 
include terms such as the one that I have set out above. Such services cannot be 
guaranteed and just because there was an issue inputting information into the App does not 
mean IISL did something wrong.
Even I had been satisfied that IISL was liable for the problem with the App I am not satisfied 
that it could reasonably be held responsible for Mr H wrongly selecting sell instead of buy 
on a different page of the App to the one where there was a problem. From what I have seen the page he had to complete to say what he wanted to do provided 
him with only three options  buy, sell or set limit order. Whatever problems he was 
having on another page in inputting the amount of the trade, selecting the right option was 
straightforward and I dont think IISL can reasonably be held responsible for him having 
pressed sell instead of buy in the circumstances.
I acknowledge Mr H says he became confused but there was nothing confusing about the 
page where he selected sell instead of buy. IISL has also pointed out that after selecting 
sell and inputting the amount of the trade clients need to confirm they want to go ahead on 
the overview page, which page confirms if the trade is a buy or sell.
As the investigator noted, IISL provided an execution-only service so the responsibility for 
ensuring trades that he made were right remained with Mr H.
IISL told Mr H in an email that it was too late to reverse the trade when he first contacted it 
about having place the wrong trade as this was one and a half hours after the trade had 
been made. Mr H has said that it was only around 40 minutes and argues that IISL could 
have reversed the trade when he first spoke to it at 9.22. I am not sure where the one and a 
half hours comes from, but I dont think it matters as I dont think the timeframe itself is 
important. I think what is important is the stage the trade is at. 
IISLs terms of service dont require it to reverse a trade at the request of a client - clause 3.9 
of the terms states that an order cant be cancelled once accepted by IISL unless before 
execution it has had to cancel or amend the order due to market circumstances.
However, IISL has stated in this complaint that it would have been possible to reverse the 
trade if it had been notified of the mistake before the trade was executed. I also note that its 
current website explains that a trade can be cancelled before execution. So, I think the most 
IISL could be expected to do would be to reverse a trade if asked to so before execution. It 
had no obligation to try and reverse a trade after execution and I have seen no evidence that 
it could have done so even if it wanted to.
As the trade had already been executed by the time Mr H spoke to IISL at 9.22 it follows that 
there is no basis for finding that it should have reversed the trade at that time, and it isnt 
surprising that the person he spoke to didnt refer to this as an option in the circumstances. 
In short, I agree with the investigator that it was too late to do anything about the trade by the 
time Mr H contacted IISL.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman