DRN-2984067
The complaint
Mr M is represented by Miss M. Mr M says Tilney Investment Management Services Limited, 
trading as Tilney, unsuitably advised and mismanaged his Inheritance Tax Planning (IHTP) 
led investments in 2015. Tilney disputes this.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He made the following main findings:
In 2015, and around the time of Tilneys advice, Mr M was in his 80s, was married 
with non-dependent children and was shortly due to sell his business and retire. He 
was in fair health but also had notable ill-health conditions. Jointly with his wife he 
had total assets worth over £6 million, his sole net annual income was around 
£150,000 and his (joint) annual expenditure was £60,000. He had a cautious risk 
profile, a low tolerance for loss and very limited investment experience, but he was 
prepared to undertake more speculative investments in order to achieve his IHTP 
objective  an objective that included the desires to mitigate his estates potential IHT 
liability of around £2 million, to mitigate his tax liabilities, to ensure he and his family 
could continue to maintain their preferred lifestyle, to ensure he could continue to 
support his family, to ensure they had capacity to meet any long term care needs and 
to maintain a cash reserve of £100,000.
Mr M had a longstanding relationship with Tilney prior to its advice to him in 2015. 
The sale of his business also gave rise to income tax and Capital Gains Tax (CGT) 
considerations. 
Tilney made its first set of recommendations in March 2015. It recommended the 
investment of around £1,190,000 across four Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS) 
and a Business Property Relief (BPR) scheme, with a second phase of investments 
to be advised upon in April after sale of Mr Ms business.
No investment action had been made by the time of Tilneys revised/second set of 
recommendations in April. This time it recommended the investment of £500,000 into 
the Oxford Capital EIS (OCEIS) and the investment of £2.5 million across the 
Downing and Triple Point BPR schemes. Tilney said the total investment could 
produce an income tax rebate of up to £150,000, deferred CGT in the value of 
£50,000 and an IHT saving, for the estate, of up to £1.2 million. Tilney acknowledged 
that additional EIS and BPR products could become available in July  whereby 
investments could be made across four products in each scheme. However, it 
considered that there was a risk in delaying the investments. Mr Ms investments 
were made broadly in line with Tilneys revised recommendations (but with a 
reduction in the amounts invested in the BPR schemes).
As of the time of the complaint and up to early 2021 both BPR scheme investments 
had appreciated in value, but the OCEIS had lost £350,000 of the £500,000 invested. 
Mr Ms complaint to Tilney expressed his dissatisfaction with the OCEIS 
recommendation. He considered that the revised recommendation to invest in only 
one EIS conflicted, without reasons, with Tilneys initial advice to diversify his EIS 
investments, and that the OCEIS investment was unduly rushed given that it did not 
have to be made at the time and given that he could have waited for the additional 
EIS opportunities that Tilney mentioned in its advice.
Tilney disagreed. It said there was a benefit to avoiding a delay in moving the assets 
out of the estate and because there was also a concern about Mr Ms health at the 
time; and that it was ultimately his decision on whether to proceed with the OCEIS or 
to wait until more EIS schemes became available.
Mr Ms cautious risk profile and low tolerance for loss is not in dispute, and the same 
applies to his willingness at the time to invest in much more speculative investments 
in order to pursue his IHTP objectives. Sufficient warnings about the high risks in the 
BPR and EIS schemes were given to him within the promotional materials for those 
schemes. In additions, Tilneys recommendations gave him an overview of the risks 
associated with each scheme. He was therefore informed about  and he understood 
 the risks in the investments.
The potential to save £1.2 million out of a potential IHT liability, for the estate, of £2 
million was the drive behind the investments, despite the associated high risks  and 
Mr M agreed with them on this basis. He had the capacity for those risks. The 
potential in the investments, including the potential to defer some CGT (with regards 
to the business sale) and to save £150,000 in income tax, met his objectives. 
Alternatives such as a life assurance policy, gifting and trusts had reasonably been 
discounted  the first was unlikely to be granted (or, if granted, was likely to be 
expensive) given Mr Ms age and health, and he preferred to  reduce the estates IHT 
liability rather than create a fund to pay for it; the second was already being 
implemented; and the third involved a waiting time of seven years which he preferred 
to avoid.
Tilneys revised recommendations should be viewed as a whole. They were not 
unsuitable. Any EIS or BPR investment is speculative and carries high risks, as 
highlighted to Mr M within the risk warnings in Tilneys suitability reports. The 
recommended schemes carried potential to satisfy his objectives and they invested in 
businesses with interests in different infrastructure and energy projects, so that 
provided an element of diversification. It would not be fair to say Mr M was unduly 
influenced to follow the revised recommendations or that Tilney overemphasised the 
idea of an immediate investment. Tilney did no more than point out that any delay 
meant his assets would remain in his taxable estate and potentially subject to IHT. Its 
recommendation also outlined that Mr M could wait for further opportunities from July 
onwards.
Miss M confirmed her fathers disagreement with this outcome and set out his reasons. In 
the main, she said:
They agree with the investigators summary of the facts.
The focus of the complaint is the unsuitable investment of £500,000 in the OCEIS, 
which presently has no value and represents a total loss of capital. In the context of 
this loss, the incidental tax related benefits that have been derived from the 
investment are not enough to justify such a loss or to make the investment suitable. 
No complaint about the BPR investments is pursued only because they have not 
incurred losses  plus, it is noteworthy that those investments involved greater diversification that the OCEIS investment, which reduced their risk profile and 
appears to have led to their better (or non-disastrous) performance. Any finding that 
the BPR investments were suitable does not mean the OCEIS investment was 
suitable.
The risks in the investments were insufficiently explained, Tilney did not ensure Mr M 
properly understood the meanings of the risk warnings and the fact that it gave him 
standard (or boilerplate) risk warnings did not make the OCEIS investment suitable.
The description of Mr M having a cautious risk profile is an understatement given that 
he and his wife were inherently investment-risk averse and held almost 99% of their 
wealth in cash; and description of him as being a relatively inexperienced investor is 
an overstatement for the same reason. His profile in no way matches that of a 
speculative risk taker, as defined by Tilney, and it concedes that the recommended 
schemes were meant only for such risk takers. Furthermore, Tilney was aware of 
personal and historical information about Mr M and his business that firmly confirmed 
why he was intolerant about losing the proceeds of the business sale. 
Tilneys March 2015 suitability report was clear on the needs and reasons for 
diversification in the investments and was clear on its recommendation of such 
diversification. Without reason, Mr Ms exposure to risks was increased due to the 
lack of diversification. Tilneys April and May reports unsuitably recommended 
investment in OCEIS only and an increase of that investment from £130,000 (as 
recommended in March) to £500,000.
Having initially featured the range of Mr Ms objectives, Tilney then focused, only and 
unreasonably, on tax mitigation  which  allowed the tax tail to wag the investment 
dog to an excessive extent. 
There was no justification for Tilney to rush the OCEIS investment, especially as 
doing so conflicted with its own diversification advice in March and with the part of its 
revised (April) advice which said more EIS (and BPR) options could be available in 
July. Its advice in April (and May) ignored its initial advice and discouraged Mr M 
from waiting for July, when he could have done so. The cheque he paid to invest in 
OCEIS was cashed on 28 May, his investments in the BPR schemes began in June 
and the allocation date for his OCEIS investment was 7 July. 
Tilney breached its regulatory duties towards Mr M in terms of upholding his best 
interests, ensuring he was informed about the risks in the investments and ensuring it 
properly assessed suitability of the investments for him.
Tilney commented on Miss Ms statements and considered that most of them repeated 
arguments that had previously been made and that it had already addressed. It asked us to 
note that its recommendations to Mr M happened after several months of discussions with 
him, his wife and Miss M; that it went to great lengths to ensure his financial security was not 
in danger; that all other possible IHTP solutions were fully discussed and ruled out, 
especially as retention of asset ownership and control was important to him; that the OCEIS 
investment should not be viewed in isolation, instead it should be viewed as a part of the 
suitable overall IHTP that was conducted for Mr M; that the timing of his OCEIS investment 
was influenced by his age and health; and that it is a mistake to overestimate the possibility 
at the time that more EIS options could become available from July 2015, given that it could 
have taken several months before EIS companies were actually trading and secured 
Business Relief qualification.The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that the investigator thoroughly considered the complaint issues and 
reached a balanced, reasonable and fair outcome. I have also thoroughly considered the 
complaint issues and I have drawn conclusions similar to the investigators. I do not uphold 
the complaint. Miss M and Mr M have presented the relevant issues very well, and I consider 
that their statements and arguments have been sincere. However, overall and on balance, I 
am not persuaded that Tilney unsuitably advised Mr Ms investments  including the OCEIS 
investment that he is particularly dissatisfied with.
Key elements, related to the suitability (or otherwise) of an investment, are  an investors 
objective(s), attitude to risk (ATR) (which includes and is comparable to tolerance for loss) 
and investment experience; affordability, including capacity for loss (distinct from tolerance 
for loss); evidence on whether (or not) the investors objective(s), ATR, experience and 
capacity for loss were properly determined between the investor and the adviser; evidence 
on whether (or not) the advisers recommendation was suitable for the investors overall 
profile; and evidence that the advice properly informed the investor about the investment and 
its risks. 
It is important to be mindful that, depending on the relevant circumstances, there could be 
more than one suitable recommendation for an investor. The regulatory duty upon a firm to 
assess and give suitable advice does not require a firm to give the most suitable advice. If, 
on balance, Tilneys advice to Mr M was suitable, the relevant regulations also do not require 
me to consider whether (or not) it could have given better or more suitable advice. 
I address the above elements under two main headings, one reflecting the elements 
(including information available to Mr M about them) and the other placing more focus on the 
matter of suitability (or otherwise) of the investments Mr M eventually made.
Objective(s), ATR, Capacity for Loss and Investment Experience
Mr M and Miss M have confirmed their agreement with the investigators summary of facts. I 
also observe that, in the main, there is no dispute over the factual information captured 
within Tilneys suitability report of March 2015, so I consider that report reliable in this 
respect. It should also be noted that Tilneys Lifetime Financial Plan  also referred to as a 
cashflow analysis  for Mr and Mrs M of 6 February 2015 and its letter to them of 27 
February 2015 preceded and led to the March report. The former two were, individually, 
quite detailed and they covered the same (or similar) key issues treated in the report.  
Overall, all three documents support the investigators findings  as I summarised above  
about Mr Ms objectives, ATR, capacity for loss and investment experience. 
Mr Ms objectives were correctly determined. There was a little more to those objectives than 
tax mitigation, but I do not consider it fair to criticise Tilney for allowing the tax tail to wag the 
investment dog to an excessive extent, as Miss M put it. Evidence from the above three 
documents, and beyond, shows that tax mitigation (primarily IHT mitigation, and then CGT 
and income tax mitigation as secondary goals) was at the core of the objectives Mr M 
presented to Tilney. His relationship with Tilney appears to have begun around 2011. There is evidence, in 
earlier cashflow (and estate planning) analysis by Tilney, that his estates IHT liability (and 
mitigation of that liability) was already a concern, and was under consideration, as early as 
2012  and continued to be under consideration up to 2015. There are similarities between 
Mr Ms objectives in the 2012 analysis and those in the March 2015 suitability report. On 
balance, I am satisfied that his key objective in 2015 was tax mitigation (especially IHT 
mitigation), that it had been his ongoing key objective for a number of years beforehand, that 
it had been addressed by past advice from Tilney and that Tilney was correct to maintain 
focus on that in 2015.
In terms of the options Mr M was prepared to consider for IHT mitigation, the March report 
supports the investigators findings that gifting and trust arrangements were discounted by 
him  and the report also supports the reasons his findings referred to. As the investigator 
said, a life assurance policy was unlikely to be viable (or likely to be unsuitably expensive) 
given Mr Ms age. He (and Miss M) have disputed the accuracy of Tilneys complaint 
response description of his state of health and I note this, however evidence shows that 
there were ill health issues  which do not need to be set out in this decision  and that his 
state of health would probably have added to the lack of viability in, or caused the potentially 
unsuitable expense of, a life assurance policy. 
Overall, on balance, for the above reasons and given the somewhat limited nature of IHT 
mitigation options for retail clients, I consider that investment-based IHT mitigation was the 
viable option for Mr M in 2015 and that it was reasonable for Tilney to focus its consideration 
on this category.
It is safe to say that whilst he was not completely risk averse  given that he had a small 
level of exposure to market risks in his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
 Mr M was very cautious about risks. There is no dispute about this, Tilney acknowledges 
this at present and its 2015 report(s) did the same. 
However, in the context of an investment-based IHT mitigation pursuit, arguably nothing 
would have matched a very cautious ATR. Tax reliefs in general, including IHT related relief, 
are valuable benefits. The government is as aware of this, as are investors and advisers. In 
broad terms, it is partly for this reason that investment-based IHT related relief is given for 
investments in areas of the economy that the government seeks to develop  and areas in 
which companies face high/higher challenges and/or risks. It could be said that the price an 
investor pays for the potential of receiving valuable IHT relief includes the requirements to 
invest in such areas, which aids such development, and the inevitability of sharing such 
high/higher risks. 
Mr M was entitled to be informed that a different approach and ATR, in contrast to his usual 
approach towards money and his usual ATR, was required to pursue the IHT and other tax 
mitigations he sought. Tilney did this across the three documents I mentioned earlier. He 
also had to decide, wilfully and being properly informed, whether (or not) to adopt such a 
different approach and ATR. He did this. I am satisfied with the balance of evidence showing 
that he knew the pursuit was alien to his risk profile, but he was prepared to undertake it 
because of the IHT mitigation he was serious about achieving  and had been pursuing 
since 2012.
For the above reasons, I do not find unsuitability with regards to the contrast between 
Tilneys recommendations and Mr Ms usual ATR, and the argument that the 
recommendations conflicted with his usual ATR appears to be redundant.
I draw a similar conclusion, for similar reasons and based on a similar analysis, with regards 
to Mr Ms investment experience. As Miss M says, his investment experience was very limited and it could be argued that it was negligible, given that it was based on no more than 
his stocks and shares ISA which was worth only around £19,000 out of his overall (joint) 
wealth of around £6 million  with the rest of the wealth held in cash/savings. 
This too is not disputed, and it has not been claimed or suggested that Mr M was versed in 
tax mitigation investments. However, for the particular purpose of pursuing his objective and 
with options to do so limited to a particular class of high/higher risk investment schemes, he 
took the informed decision to venture into investments beyond the cash and minimal stocks 
and shares ISA he was used to. Overall and for these reasons, I do not find unsuitability with 
regards to the contrast between Tilneys recommendations and Mr Ms lack of investment 
experience.
Mr Ms complaint does not appear to extend to his capacity for loss. He accepts that he had 
such capacity, but he distinguishes this from his position on tolerance for loss, which I have 
implicitly addressed in my treatment of his ATR above. It is notable across the three 
documents I mentioned above that the avoidance of any step which put at risk Mr and Mrs 
Ms financial stability was vital for them and for Tilney. The allocation of around £3 million to 
pursue the reduction of his estates £2 million potential IHT liability by around £1.2 million 
was assessed in the context of having around £1.5 million (excluding the value of his 
residence) in assets left and available to him. This was reflected across the cashflow 
analysis and suitability report. In this context, I am persuaded that Mr Ms capacity for loss 
existed and was properly determined; and given that these assets were mainly in 
cash/savings this also covered his £100,000 cash reserve requirement.  
I do not accept Miss Ms argument that inadequate information about investment risks was 
given to Mr M. Available evidence establishes the opposite. Aside from the materials related 
to the EIS and BPR products, which were informative about the products, their providers and 
the products risks, the detailed nature of Tilneys cashflow analysis and suitability reports 
must be noted. They covered all that Mr M was entitled to know  as required by regulations 
 including information on the risks associated with each type of investment and with each 
recommendation. The risks summaries in the reports appendices would also have helped 
his understanding of this information. 
I am also persuaded that the information would have had a distinct impact on Mr M given his 
inherently cautious profile and given that the information was about high investment risks he 
was not accustomed to. The warnings would have been information he took notice of and I 
do not consider that he would not have understood them. His decision to proceed with the 
venture suggests that he was prepared to undertake high/higher risks he had considered 
and understood. I agree with Miss Ms argument that risk warnings do not automatically 
make a risky investment suitable  and I address suitability below  but, for the above 
reasons, I disagree with her assertion that Mr M was not properly informed about the risks in 
investment-based tax (and particularly IHT) mitigation and/or in Tilneys recommendations. 
Suitability
Mr M eventually invested £500,000 in the OCEIS and a total of around £2.2 million in the two 
BPR funds mentioned earlier above. This resulted from Tilneys revised recommendations in 
April 2015 and differed from its initial (March 2015) recommendations of  £130,000 
investment in the OCEIS, investment of £130,000 each in two other EIS funds, investment of 
£235,000 in another EIS fund, investment of around £560,000 in the Downing BPR fund; and 
then a second phase of investments from around April, including a £125,000 investment in a 
fifth EIS fund and investment of almost £1.7 million in three BPR funds.
Mr M and Miss M are correct in saying that the April report gives little to no details about the 
reasoning behind Tilneys revised recommendations. There was indeed a somewhat sharp move away from the previous proposal of diversifying Mr Ms investments (over two 
investment phases) across a total of five EIS funds and four BPR funds, to the proposal of 
investing in one EIS fund and two BPR funds. 
The April report is relatively short compared to the March report. In some parts Tilney 
referred to and endorsed relevant contents of the March report, and then it went into details 
of the new BPR that was recommended (and which the March report did not feature). I do 
not suggest that the report should have been unduly lengthy. It was reasonable for Tilney to 
briefly mention the contents of its March advice that it retained, without repeating such 
advice. However, diversification was part of its March advice, so Tilney ought reasonably to 
have given meaningful and detailed reasons why it had revised downwards its 
recommendation of nine separate investments over two investment phases to a 
recommendation of three investments in a single phase.
Having said the above, the revised recommendations and the investments that Mr M made 
based on those recommendations must still be considered for their suitability (or otherwise). 
In isolation, the lack of meaningful and detailed reasons for Tilneys revision of advice does 
not automatically establish that the recommendations were unsuitable.
As I addressed in the previous section, investment-based IHT mitigation matched Mr Ms 
objective, he wilfully (and with informed consideration) departed from his usual risk profile in 
order to pursue such a solution and he had the financial capacity to do so. As I also 
addressed above, it was reasonable for Tilney to focus on this category of potential IHT 
mitigation solutions, given that key non-investment based potential solutions had been 
discounted. 
EIS and BPR schemes are not uncommon investment-based options for IHT mitigation. I do 
not intend to detail their general components and potential IHT relief benefits, the parties 
appear to be aware of both and neither aspect appears to be in dispute. It is enough to say 
that both types of schemes were suitable investment-based IHT mitigation options for Mr M 
because they are designed to produce such potential mitigation. I have not seen evidence to 
establish, on balance, that particular factors related to each schemes provider made their 
EIS and BPR products unsuitable for Mr M. Overall, their products stood to behave, in terms 
of potential tax mitigation, broadly consistently with other EIS and BPR products and it does 
not appear that their products were significantly riskier than others, especially as all such 
schemes carried high/higher investment risks by their nature.
The two contentious matters of suitability therefore appear to be the lack of diversification 
and the timing of the investments.
I have considered the contents of the April report and available evidence of other contact 
between the parties from then and up to 20 May 2015 (when he appears to have completed 
and/or submitted his application for the OCEIS investment). 
The report includes a sentence in which Tilney said it recommends Mr M  immediately 
invest a total of £3,000,000 in a range of EIS and BPR qualifying investments, followed by 
reference to OCEIS and the two BPR funds. The next section is sub-headed Alternative 
options and it refers to Mr M having the option to wait until further products become 
available and invest in a wider and more diversified range of products. It also mentions that 
this could happen around July and could lead to the recommendation of four EIS funds and 
four BPR funds, but that the risk in delay was that the capital would remain in his taxable 
estate in the interim and therefore remain subject to potential IHT. 
I have not seen evidence within, or beyond, the report showing that Tilney placed pressure 
upon Mr M, between 17 April and 20 May, to invest in OCEIS. Its recommendation of immediate investment in the report was directly followed by the alternative options sub-
section. I consider that the latter diluted the former, and essentially informed Mr M that there 
was no particular urgency but, if the investments were delayed and until they were made, the 
intended IHT mitigation measures would not be in effect  which was somewhat obvious. 
Around a month passed between the report and completion/submission of Mr Ms 
application. This does not suggest a rushed application or an applicant who was placed 
under pressure to apply quickly. Overall and on balance, I am persuaded by Tilneys 
argument that Mr M made the final call on the matter and could have decided to delay the 
application if he wished; and I do not consider he was unduly pressured to invest quickly.
Of course, the above finding does not absolve Tilney of responsibility for abandoning its 
previous recommendation of investments diversified over nine funds and instead advising 
less diversified investments over three funds, and for the suitability (or otherwise) of the 
latter. However, it does address the argument that Tilney was responsible for the timing of 
the investment in the OCEIS. On balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider 
that it was.
In broad terms, suitable diversification in investments can be a valuable aspect of investment 
risk management, even for a high-risk portfolio. I consider that suitability in this case should 
be viewed in the context of the portfolio of the IHTP investments Mr M made. What 
amounts to suitable diversification in a portfolio can be subjective, depending on the 
circumstances of a case. Mr M invested around just over a quarter of his portfolio in the 
OCEIS and the rest in two BPR schemes (with slightly more investment in one than the 
other). 
I accept that more diversification might have been better and/or more suitable for Mr M. 
Each investment placed a significant amount of money in each of the three schemes. It is 
arguable that investment of capital over more funds could avoid the type of concentration of 
risk that could exist where the investment is made in less funds. 
However, given the broadly and arguably like-for-like relationship between many EIS (and 
BPR) funds, in terms of risks, it could also be argued that the above effect, in practice, does 
not apply to them; that it does no more than split the same level of concentration into more 
parts; and that it does not reduce or dilute the overall potential risks. The portfolio was not 
simply one for investment. Its primary aim was tax mitigation through inherently high-risk 
investments. As such, diversification in this context arguably differed from the sort of 
diversification applicable to a purely investment led portfolio, in which high risk investments 
can be mixed with medium or low risk investments in order to alter the portfolios overall risk 
exposure. 
I repeat the need to be mindful that I am not required to consider if Tilney could have made a 
better or more suitable recommendation. Instead, my consideration is about the suitability of 
the recommendation it made. Overall, on balance, and in Mr Ms case, I am not quite 
persuaded that his investment of £500,000 in the OCEIS (and what he invested in the BPR 
investments) made enough of a difference to his portfolios exposure to risk, to risk 
management in the portfolio or to suitability of the portfolio, compared to if he had invested 
the same amount over three or four EIS funds (and/or invested into more BPR funds).
Tilneys revised recommendations and the investments that followed seems to have used 
less capital, around £250,000 less than it initially advised, to pursue broadly the same tax 
mitigation objectives. Less (around £250,000) was also allocated to EIS investment, a total, 
over two phases, of £750,000 was previously advised and £500,000 was eventually 
invested. These meant notably reduced exposure to risks, seemingly without compromise to 
the pursued objectives. The investments that took place were inherently risky. I am not quite persuaded that it can be said, with certainty (or even on the balance of probabilities) and 
without the benefit of hindsight, that a portfolio split over more of the same type of schemes 
would have been less risky than the portfolio with the three investments that were made. I 
also share the investigators view that OCEIS had elements of diversification within it, in the 
form of the sub-investments in the scheme.
For the above reasons, I do not consider that Mr Ms investments were unsuitably 
diversified.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman