DRN-3974549
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as Moneyway. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs H took out a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway for a used car. 
The car was five years old and had travelled approximately 69,324 miles. The cash price 
was £11,995.
At the beginning of February 2022, a repair was carried out under the dealers warranty after 
the car broke down. 
Mrs H has told us that, on 28 March 2022, the engine started making a loud knocking noise 
as she was driving home. She says she pulled over and arranged for the car to be towed to 
a manufacturers garage. The garage provided a report saying:
Severe knocking noise is internal of engine most likely related to bottom end (crankshaft) 
of engine.
Complete engine removal and stripping would be required to ascertain the exact cause 
and extent of damage.
The garage also provided photos of the engine oil dipstick and filler cap. Their report noted:
1. Engine oil level is at minimum mark
2. Deposits on oil filler cap and condition of oil filter indicate poor oil condition.
Mrs H says she complained about this to the dealer, but they told her the car was no longer 
under warranty. 
Moneyway have confirmed that Mrs H contacted them on 29 March 2022 to make a 
complaint. She told them that the car had been sold to her as having had a service, but she 
didnt believe this had been carried out. 
Moneyway arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. They then issued their 
final response to Mrs H, saying they hadnt upheld her complaint because they hadnt seen 
any evidence to show the issues were present or developing when they supplied the car. 
They said the car was advertised as having been fully serviced, and the dealer had provided 
proof that this had been done. 
Our investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when Moneyway supplied it. 
She thought it was reasonable to expect the car to have been serviced before it was 
supplied  and that the crankshaft issue was highly likely to have been identified and/or 
prevented if this had happened. 
The investigator said Moneyway should reimburse the £140 Mrs H had paid to have the car 
towed to the garage. She noted that Mrs H hadnt been able to use the car since the 
crankshaft problem came to light, so she thought it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs H to 
receive a refund of the payments shed made under the agreement since then. 
The investigator thought Moneyway should allow Mrs H to return the car and end the 
agreement with nothing further for her to pay. She said they should also pay Mrs H £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Moneyway responded, saying the vehicle inspection report showed the car had been 
serviced on 28 October 2021  and that the oil and filter were changed. They stressed that 
this didnt suggest there was any issue with the oil condition. Moneyway said the 
independent engineer had reported that he didnt believe the issues were present when the 
car was supplied to Mrs H. 
Our investigator said this didnt change her view. She said that, given how quickly the faults 
came to light, she felt it was more than likely that theyd been present or developing when 
the car was supplied to Mrs H. 
As Moneyway didnt agree with our investigators view, the case has come to me for a 
decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The agreement Mrs H entered into was a hire purchase agreement, so this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Under this kind of agreement, Moneyway is also the 
supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was five years old and had covered around 69,324 
miles when it was supplied to Mrs H. It cost £11,995, which is significantly less than it 
wouldve cost when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same 
standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I havent seen a copy of the dealers advert. But Ive seen a copy of Moneyways final 
response to Mrs Hs complaint, in which they confirmed that the advert had described the car 
as fully serviced. Given this description, I dont think a buyer would expect to need to get it 
serviced again for a while.
Having thought about all of this, I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect 
condition. I think theyd probably expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. 
But I do think theyd expect the car to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major 
issues. 
Coolant leak
Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 4 February 2022. It records the mileage to have been 
71,986 at that time, so I can see the car had travelled less than 3,000 miles since it was 
supplied to Mrs H. The invoice says:
Checked fault codes, various ones listed. Noticed coolant bottle empty.
..found hose clip broken causing coolant to leak. Replaced hose clip and corrected 
coolant level.
I consider this to be a significant issue because the invoice shows it caused the engine 
management light to be displayed on the dashboard and the car to go into limp mode. 
Bearing in mind how soon this came to light, I find it most likely that the issue with the hose 
clip was already present or developing when Mrs H got the car. 
For these reasons, I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Im pleased to see the cost of this repair was covered under the dealers warranty.
Crankshaft bearing
Ive carefully reviewed the reports obtained from the manufacturers garage and independent 
engineer, dated 7 and 29 April 2022 respectively. Both reports confirm the car to have 
travelled 73,151 miles. 
The opinions expressed in those reports are broadly in agreement about the knocking noise 
coming from the engine. The independent engineers report states:
I concur with [the manufacturers garage] in that the noise seems to be associated with 
the crankshaft big end or main bearing failure.
It isnt disputed that this was a significant problem that meant the car couldnt be driven. I 
wouldnt consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when these inspections were 
carried out in April 2022. The point for me to decide is whether it was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs H in November 2021. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mrs H only had around four months use of the car, during 
which time it covered less than 4,000 miles. I think she was reasonably entitled to expect it 
to last longer than this without major issues.  So, I dont think it was sufficiently durable. And 
for that reason, I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Moneyway say the independent engineers report said he didnt believe the issues with the 
car were present at the point of supply. Im not persuaded of this. The report says:
With regards to the noise being present or developing at the point of sale, I would 
consider a crankshaft bearing failure of this nature would be clearly evident and the noise 
would be quite excessive to the point where the customer could not fail to hear it.
In addition, [the manufacturers garage] has confirmed today that the vehicle was on their 
premises on the 4/2/2022 @ 71,986 miles for a gearbox software update and there were 
no excessive engine noise present on that occasion. 
Therefore I would conclude it is highly unlikely the noise would have been present and it 
is unlikely it was developing at the point of sale.I find it clear that this refers to whether the noise was likely to have been present at the point 
of sale. Ive already noted that the engineer thought the noise seemed to be associated with 
the crankshaft bearing having failed. Ive seen no evidence as to what caused the bearing to 
fail  or when that issue was likely to have developed. The report says:
At this stage the engine has not been dismantled therefore it is impossible to speculate 
why the bearings have failed.
It goes on to recommend further investigation to confirm whether lack of servicing, age or 
contamination of the engine oil was a contributing factor:
Taking into account there was no service history present during the inspection, I would 
suggest previous service records need to be produced to show the vehicle has been 
service in accordance with [the manufacturers] service recommendations (20,000-miles 
or 12mths). 
If it is found the vehicle has not been maintained correctly I would conclude this would be 
a contributing factor to the early failure of the crankshaft bearings. 
In the first instance, I highly recommend an oil sample is taken from the engine and sent 
for an analysis test; the test will show how long the oil has been in the engine and also 
show if any contaminants are present (diesel dilution). 
If a high rate of diesel dilution is present, it will confirm the viscosity of the oil is too thin to 
the point where it can no longer provide adequate hydrodynamic protection (keeping the 
bearing surface from touching the crankshaft journal surface) in which metal to metal 
contact takes place and the bearings fail.
Ive seen no evidence to show whether any of the recommended follow-up investigatory 
work was carried out  or what it showed about the servicing and condition of the oil.
Mrs H feels strongly that the car hadnt been serviced before it was supplied to her. 
Moneyway say the dealer has provided evidence showing this was done. 
I dont find it necessary to decide whether the car had been serviced before it was supplied 
to Mrs H, because it doesnt affect what I think is the right outcome in this case. Regardless 
of whether a service had been carried out, I dont consider the car to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied because I dont think it was sufficiently durable. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mrs H should pay for the months in which she was able to use the car. But 
shes told us that shes been unable to drive it since it broke down on 28 March 2022. So, I 
think Moneyway should refund any payments shes made under the agreement since that 
date.
Mrs H has already allowed the dealer one opportunity to repair the car  after which she was 
reasonably entitled to expect it to conform to the contract. So, I think she should now be 
given her final right to reject the car. This means the agreement will come to an end, and she 
wont have to make any further repayments that would otherwise have become due after 28 
March 2022. 
Mrs H has told us that she had to pay for the car to be recovered when it broke down. I think 
she should be reimbursed for the recovery costs she incurred due to the coolant leak and 
the crankshaft bearing issues, on production of receipts or other suitable evidence of this. Mrs H says she paid £79 for the manufacturers garage to investigate the noise from the 
engine. This charge is shown on the garages invoice dated 7 April 2022. I think its fair that 
Moneyway should reimburse her for this. 
Mrs H has told us that shes also incurring daily storage charges for the car, which is still at 
the garage because she lives in a street with no off-road parking. I think its fair for 
Moneyway to cover these costs, on production of an invoice or other suitable evidence 
showing the amount Mrs H has already paid (if any) and the amount outstanding.
Mrs H has told us about the difficulties shes faced due to Moneyway having supplied her 
with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says she has two part-time jobs, which 
means either getting four taxis each day or walking to work. Shes told us that she hasnt 
been able to take her elderly parent shopping since the car broke down. She says all of this 
has had a significant impact on her - both financially and mentally. 
I think Moneyway should pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused here. And I think they should remove any adverse information theyve recorded on 
her credit file about this agreement since 28 March 2022. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Secure Trust 
Bank PLC, trading as Moneyway, to:
End the agreement, with no requirement for Mrs H to make any further repayments 
that would otherwise have become due after 28 March 2022.
Refund any monthly payments Mrs H has made for the period since 28 March 2022.
Reimburse Mrs H for the recovery costs she incurred due to the issues with the 
coolant leak and crankshaft bearings, on production of receipts or other suitable 
evidence showing the amount(s) shes paid.
Reimburse Mrs H £79 for the cost of the investigation work shown in the garages 
invoice dated 7 April 2022, 
Pay any storage charges that have accrued since 7 April 2022. Mrs H should be 
reimbursed for any storage charges shes already paid, on production of receipts or 
other suitable evidence of this expense.
Where Mrs H has made payments already, interest should be added to each of the 
refunded amounts, calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement at 
8% simple per year.
Pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file about this 
agreement since 28 March 2022.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneyway didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs H said she was happy with the proposed outcome, as the issues with this account being 
in default were affecting her credit rating. She said she also had a bill of £1,500 for storage 
of the car. She provided recordings of three phone calls shed made about the problems with 
the car. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs H for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls shes provided. These appear to be calls 
made to Mrs Hs credit broker, rather than Moneyway. I appreciate that shes been 
inconvenienced by the problems with the car  and that shes had to make phone calls to 
chase this. But I do think £250 is fair and reasonable to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused. 
As no other new information has been provided by either of the parties in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Secure 
Trust Bank PLC, trading as Moneyway, to:
End the agreement, with no requirement for Mrs H to make any further repayments 
that would otherwise have become due after 28 March 2022.
Refund any monthly payments Mrs H has made for the period since 28 March 2022.
Reimburse Mrs H for the recovery costs she incurred due to the issues with the 
coolant leak and crankshaft bearings, on production of receipts or other suitable 
evidence showing the amount(s) shes paid.
Reimburse Mrs H £79 for the cost of the investigation work shown in the garages 
invoice dated 7 April 2022, 
Pay any storage charges that have accrued since 7 April 2022. Mrs H should be 
reimbursed for any storage charges shes already paid, on production of receipts or 
other suitable evidence of this expense.
Where Mrs H has made payments already, interest should be added to each of the 
refunded amounts, calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement at 
8% simple per year.
Pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file about this 
agreement since 28 March 2022.
If Moneyway consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell her how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Corinne BrownOmbudsman