DRN-3765046
The complaint
P complained that his broker Ringsite Limited (Ringsite) didnt record his details correctly 
when he arranged his vehicle insurance, which resulted in his claim being declined as his 
risk hadnt been fairly presented when taking out the policy. P is a commercial business.
What happened
P made a claim to his insurer when one of his vehicles was stolen. However, when the 
insurer validated the claim, it decided to decline the claim. Ringsite said P didnt disclose 
previous claims to it when the policy was arranged.
P said when he made his claim that he realised the details taken about P were incorrect  he 
said the details had been incorrectly recorded by the broker, Ringsite, when arranging the 
new policy. P asked for a full investigation of what had occurred but said he didnt hear back 
from Ringsite.
Ringsite said it had bought another business and P was one of the clients it acquired through 
the purchased business. Ringsite said it had no details of the existing clients, including P, 
except for basic information such as name, address and contact details. Ringsite said as it 
had no information about any of its clients it went through a systematic process of calling all 
its new clients to properly understand their circumstances and needs ahead of arranging 
new policies for them.
Ringsite said it shared the new policy documentation with P along with his statement of 
facts. Ringsite said this allowed P to review the information which it used when placing the 
insurance with an underwriter. It said it had arranged the insurance based on the information 
provided by P. It said P didnt provide critical information in relation to speeding offences and 
previous claims.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said P had evidenced that it had 
sent the statement of facts and policy documentation to P at the time of the policy inception 
and had asked P to notify it if any of the information was incorrect. No notifications were 
received by P. So, she thought Ringsite had acted reasonably in setting up the new policy 
based on the information it knew about. P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint has been made about Ringsite who acted as broker in this arrangement. I can 
only consider what it did in its role as broker in setting up and administering the policy. I 
wont be able to look at the decision to decline the claim, as this decision was taken by a 
different party, the insurer.
P said he provided all the information about his claims history and speeding offences to 
Ringsite when his policy was renewed. But Ringsite have argued differently. Unfortunately, 
there isnt a recorded call available of when this initial conversation took place. I can 
appreciate Ps frustration this call wasnt recorded  as its normal in this industry for this to 
happen.
Ringsite has explained why it didnt record the call. It has explained it is a small business 
and hadnt recorded calls in the past. However, the experience of this complaint has meant it 
has now introduced the recording of calls. Our service is one where we make decisions 
based upon the evidence provided, so I have reviewed the other circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ringsite provided a description of the process it undertook when renewing Ps policy as well 
as other clients. Ringsite said the individual who took the call with P had 40 years of 
insurance experience and it said he would've asked the relevant questions regarding claims. 
It explained when Ringsite received the new clients it had limited information on them. So, it 
didn't have any policy information whatsoever. This meant Ringsite had to call every 
customer and request this information manually so it could provide a new quotation. Ringsite 
said the likelihood of them not asking P about his previous claims is very low and it would've 
asked as this was the reason for the call.
Ive thought about whether there was any benefit for Ringsite to collect the wrong information 
and I dont think there is. Had the correct information been provided this wouldn't have 
changed anything for Ringsite. There was no incentive for them not to ask about previous 
claims or convictions, it would've just meant when this information was utilised that Ps 
premium was likely to be higher. I am persuaded by what Ringsite has said, I think it has 
followed a standard process with every new customer.
Ringsite have evidenced that when the policy was renewed it sent P the new documents 
along with the statement of fact which was a record of all the information P used in 
arranging the new policy. I can see that it asked P to check this information and provide 
feedback to Ringsite if any of this was incorrect. I appreciate P said it chose not to open the 
documents that had been sent through, so it was unlikely it had read this information. 
There isnt conclusive evidence of the call from the policy inception. So, I cant say nor can 
anyone else whether a mistake was made when this information was recorded by Ringsite. 
However, I think Ringsite has provided P opportunity to review the information that had been 
used when it shared the policy information and statement of fact, so I cant say it didnt follow 
a reasonable process. If there was something wrong, if any of the information was incorrect, 
there was an opportunity for P to correct it. P could still have cancelled the policy at that 
point if it wasnt happy with the contract it had entered. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint as I think Ringsite has acted reasonably in its role as broker, it put checks in its 
process to allow its customers to review what had been arranged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ringsite Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman