DRN-4210840
The complaint
Mr H complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In September 2022, Mr Hs car was damaged in an accident involving another driver. 
Advantage says it wasnt able to find an approved repairer in Mr Hs area. Mr H provided 
details of a garage close to him at Advantages request. 
After some delay, Advantage deemed Mr Hs car a total loss in February 2023. Mr H 
declined Advantages settlement offer so it arranged for an engineers report to be carried 
out in order to complete a revaluation. 
In the meantime, Advantage sent Mr H an interim payment and he was informed that his hire 
car needed to be returned. Mr Hs insurance policy was cancelled 30 days after the interim 
payment was raised.
Mr H complained to Advantage about the valuation of his car and the service hed received. 
Advantage said it had used trade guides to value Mr Hs vehicle and its valuation of £7,358 
matched the average of the guides.
Advantage said the hire car had been arranged through the third-party insurer. It said there 
was no obligation for Advantage to provide a hire car, so it wouldnt extend or pay for 
additional hire. It said the insurance had been cancelled in line with Advantages terms and 
conditions.
Advantage acknowledged delays in progressing Mr Hs claim and the difficulties hed 
experienced when calling Advantage. It paid Mr H £100 to compensate him for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. In its submission 
to our service, Advantage said it would like to increase its offer of compensation to £300. 
Our investigator thought Advantages valuation of the car was fair and reasonable. And she 
thought a total of £300 was enough to compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators outcome. He made some comments regarding 
miscommunication from Advantage and the length of time hed had to spend on the phone. 
He said it had miscategorised his car as manual instead of automatic.  There was 
miscommunication about his MOT and the courtesy car, and it had cancelled his insurance 
incorrectly. Hed lost a few days of work from being without the car, which had cost him 
around £1,000.
He said Advantage had intended to fix his car but had wrongly allocated it to a garage hours 
away from where the car was. It had written off his car without his consent or prior 
discussion.
Mr H said he couldnt purchase a car with the amount Advantage had provided and attached 
some adverts for cars that were currently available. 
As Mr H disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
To be clear, in this complaint I have only considered events Mr H has complained of that 
occurred prior to Advantages final response dated 3 April 2023. Im aware that Mr H has 
raised some concerns about events that have occurred after that date. If he would like our 
service to consider these, he would need to bring them to us as a separate complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr H has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr H Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
Claim settlement
The policy terms say that if a policyholders car is damaged because of an accident, 
Advantage will do one of the following:
Pay for any necessary repairs
Replace your Car
Repair the damage
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss
Market Value is defined as: The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the 
time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. 
This may not necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value and will 
make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the 
circumstances in which you bought it.
Advantage says it obtained a valuation of £6,727 from an industry trade guide. It says it 
wasnt able to obtain a value from another trade guide, so it looked at online examples for 
vehicles similar to Mr Hs. Its engineers found a vehicle similar (which was an automatic) for 
£7,990. Advantage says it used an average of these two figures to reach its settlement offer 
of £7,358.Our service has carried out our own vehicle valuation checks on Mr Hs vehicle, using three 
trade guides. These valuations came out at £6,470, £6,413 and £6,725.
I understand that the vehicle is incorrectly recorded as a manual by the DVLA. Mr H has 
provided video evidence to show that the car is automatic. Advantage says the vehicle was 
set up as a manual when Mr H purchased his policy online. It was insured on that basis 
because Mr H didnt contact Advantage to make it aware he believed his vehicle to be 
automatic. 
Our investigator arranged a vehicle valuation check for an automatic transmission vehicle of 
the same type, age and mileage as Mr Hs. This came out with a valuation of £6,660.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr H would 
have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a vehicle.
Mr H says hes been unable to source a vehicle for the amount Advantage offered and has 
provided a number of adverts for similar vehicles. Our service doesnt normally use adverts 
to decide whether a valuation is fair. This is because vehicles can end up being sold for 
lower than they were advertised. And differences in mileage or year of registration can have 
a big effect on the value of the same model of vehicle. 
Advantages settlement offer is higher than all of the trade guides, even taking into account 
the vehicle being automatic. So, Im satisfied that the settlement offer Advantage made Mr H 
is reasonable and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy that Advantage decided to write off his car rather than 
arrange for it to be repaired. However, the engineer who inspected the car recommended it 
be dealt with on a total loss basis. Advantage has provided us with a copy of the garages 
estimate from January 2023, which shows a total repair cost for his vehicle of around 
£7,100. So, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to have decided that the vehicle was 
uneconomical to repair. 
Customer service issues
Mr H has complained about the length of time it took Advantage to deal with his claim. He 
says Advantage attempted to fix his car in a distant location despite his request for a garage 
closer to where he lives. It took it a month to respond to his request and when it did, it 
refused his choice for a nearby garage with no information about garages it did accept. 
He says hes spent a considerable amount of time speaking to Advantage over the phone 
and emailing them. He also raised concerns about his hire car being taken from him and 
Advantage cancelling his policy. 
Mr H says he missed at least three weeks of work and his mental health has been impacted 
as a result of the problems he experienced.
Advantage says the third-party insurer made the decision to end the car hire after about five 
months. The terms of the policy didnt entitle Mr H to a courtesy car. So, Im not persuaded 
that Advantage is responsible for Mr H being left without a vehicle to drive.
The policy terms say:If your claim is settled on a Total Loss basis and you dont replace your Car within 30 days 
of being issued the settlement payment well cancel your policy (in the case of a single Car 
policy).
Advantage says it should have waited until 30 days after the re-evaluation amount was 
raised in mid-April 2023 before cancelling Mr Hs policy. But I havent seen anything that 
suggests Mr H was impacted by Advantage cancelling the policy before this. Given what it 
says in the policys terms and conditions, I dont think it was unfair for Mr Hs policy to have 
been cancelled. 
Advantage has acknowledged being responsible for several months of avoidable delays in 
dealing with Mr Hs claim. Its paid him £100 in response to his complaint and offered him a 
further £200 after he came to our service.
Having considered the impact of Advantages errors, poor customer service and delays on 
Mr H I think a total of £300 is reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced. So, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H, Im not 
persuaded to award compensation above the amount Advantage has already offered. 
Putting things right
Advantage should pay Mr H £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr H a further 
£200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr H £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman