DRN-2344111
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to turn down her 
buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs G made a claim to UKI after there was a partial collapse of ground at her property 
affecting a retaining wall.
UKI said it couldnt accept a claim for subsidence because Mrs Gs main house hadnt been 
affected, as required by the policy for a subsidence claim to be accepted. It also said it 
couldnt accept a claim for storm or flood damage, because Mrs Gs garden had flooded 
many times, which had led to the damage. It said the policy didnt cover gradual damage. 
However, UKI accepted that Mrs G shouldnt have had to chase it for a promised call-back. It 
paid her £50 compensation to recognise this.
Unhappy with UKIs decision to turn down her claim, Mrs G brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought UKIs claims decisions had been 
reasonable. 
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs property borders a river. UKIs subsidence specialist observed that the rear 
boundary of the property had a scheme of metal sheet piles that had been driven into the 
ground, and interlocked in order to retain the ground below. They said the damage had 
occurred along the central point of a sheet metal wall which had suffered from outward 
movement. That in turn had pulled the inside row of sheet piles, creating fissures within the 
ground and causing areas of partial collapse.
UKIs subsidence specialist said that none of the damage affected Mrs Gs home, as 
defined in the policy. They accepted that the ground had moved, and noted there had been 
records of heavy rainfall in the area leading up to the incident, and that Mrs G had confirmed 
there was some flooding of the external areas. They said Mrs G had provided them with 
photos from several years earlier to demonstrate how the area floods. They therefore 
thought there could be a storm or flood claim under the policy, but thought there had been a 
gradual failure over many years. Although the condition of the sheet piling was good, they 
said the ground had gradually lost volume over the years through shrinkage and washouts. 
They later confirmed they thought the movement to the sheet piled wall was the result of 
several storm incidents and flooding over the area over time.
Mrs G arranged for a structural engineering firm to carry out an inspection (that Ill call 
Company D). Company D said that Mrs G had explained that since moving into the property 
in 2011, there had been many occasions when the garden had flooded after heavy storms, 
with the river rising to between 0.3m and 1m above garden level. And that in summertime, 
the soil between the retaining walls became very dry and consequently shrank. Company D 
said that ground between the sheet piles had become vulnerable and fragile during the 
storms, heavy rain and flooding. And that when they visited the property, there had been a 
failure of the wall closest to the house due to the weak soil. 
The policy sets out a number of insured perils. A claim will be covered if loss or damage to 
the property falls under one of those perils.  
One of the perils is subsidence (known as ground movement). Its not in dispute that there 
has been movement to Mrs Gs land, which has affected a retaining wall. Although the policy 
covers subsidence damage to garden walls, this is only the case if the home is damaged at 
the same time and by the same cause. 
The policy defines home as The main residence occupied by you, at the address shown in 
your schedule, including its domestic garages and outbuildings. 
Im satisfied that as Mrs Gs home wasnt damaged at the same time by the ground 
movement, then UKI was correct to turn down a claim for subsidence. 
Another insured peril is storm or flood. 
UKIs subsidence specialist thought the damage had happened due to the ground losing 
volume over the years through shrinkage and washouts. This is supported by Company Ds 
comments about the ground becoming vulnerable during storms, heavy rain, and flooding.
As our investigator has said, there wasnt a single storm that caused the damage. It seems 
that storms over the years led to heavy rainfall, which in turn caused the flooding and 
subsequent damage to the ground. 
I understand there was heavy rainfall in the days before the ground collapsed, which led to 
flooding in the garden. So I think you could reasonably say there was a flood. However, the 
evidence supports that the damage happened as a result of the ground becoming vulnerable 
over many years of flooding. The final flood then led to the ground collapsing. UKIs 
subsidence specialist referred to it as the straw that broke the camels back.
The policy excludes any damage caused gradually. However, I think it would only be 
reasonable for UKI to rely upon this exclusion if Mrs G was aware of the damage happening 
gradually, or ought reasonably to have been aware of it. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs G knew that the area was prone to flooding. Although she says 
she didnt know the ground was unstable, I think the previous flooding incidents ought to 
have put her on notice that the area needed to be checked to ensure the flooding wasnt 
having an adverse impact on the ground.
Its also the case that in the weeks before the collapse of the ground, Mrs G was aware there 
was an issue as shed noticed some settlement. Although she backfilled the area with soil 
and sawdust, she didnt arrange any investigations into why the area was settling. If she had 
done so, action could have been taken which may well have prevented the eventual collapse 
of the ground in that area. Taking all of this into account, I think Mrs G ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
damage happening gradually, and therefore it was appropriate for UKI to rely upon the 
exclusion for gradual damage to turn down the claim. 
Mrs G has made the point that she paid for her own survey because UKI told her it would 
normally ask for one. Yet it then arranged its own survey anyway. As I understand it, UKI 
arranged for its own survey because Mrs Gs surveyors report wasnt clear on whether or 
not thered been an insured peril. If this had been clear, then UKI would have had no need to 
arrange its own inspection. 
UKI paid Mrs G £50 compensation for failing to get back to her when it said it would. I think 
that was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman