DRN-4236980
The complaint
Mr Y complains First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) supplied him with a car that he  
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr Y entered into a 43 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. 
The cars cost was around £7,000. It was over 7 years old and had travelled over 85,400 
miles. Mr Y was required to make monthly payments of around £250.
In April 2023, Mr Y complained he was experiencing issues with the car. He said the horn 
wasnt working meaning the car failed its MOT test. He also said the airbags were disabled, 
the brakes werent working and the bonnet was faulty amongst other things. He said he had 
taken it to a third party garage and they found the horn wasnt working. The garage also 
found around 17 fault codes but said further investigation was needed.
First Response said they would arrange for the horn and the other issues to be investigated 
and repaired. The car was returned to the dealership but they said they couldnt find any 
faults. Despite this, Mr Y maintained the horn was still faulty. 
First Response arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out in May 2023. It 
found there was an intermittent fault with the horn which was related to a defective clock 
ring. However it concluded this was due to wear and tear and it was expected for a car of its 
age and mileage. If said given the mileage covered by Mr Y, the fault wouldnt have been 
present when he acquired it. 
Based on these findings, First Response said they werent responsible for the fault with the 
horn. However as a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to honour their initial offer of covering 
the cost of the repair.
Unhappy with their response, Mr Y referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He said based on the conclusions of the 
independent inspection, First Response werent responsible for the fault with the horn so he 
wouldnt be recommending rejection. He also commented despite these conclusions, he 
believed First Responses offer was fair and reasonable given the circumstances. 
Mr Y disagreed and maintained his stance. He commented due to the issues with the car it 
shouldve never been sold to him, he had lost confidence in it, and he wasnt willing to make 
payments towards the agreement. Mr Y later told our service the car had been collected by 
First Response and sold at auction but he says hes not willing to pay any outstanding sums 
to First Response.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr Y acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. First Response was the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mr Y acquired a car that was over seven years old and had travelled over 
85,400 miles. As this was a used car with considerable mileage and age, its reasonable to 
expect parts may already have suffered substantial wear and tear when compared to a new 
car or one that is less travelled.
Ive carefully considered the evidence and version of events from both parties. Mr Y has 
complained about a number of issues with the car including the horn, disabled air bags, etc. 
He has provided evidence of an invoice from a third-party garage which says the horn wasnt 
working and there were a number of fault codes found which needed to be investigated 
further. Although its worth mentioning its unclear whether these were present or historic 
fault codes. Ive also considered the findings of the independent inspection which also 
confirms there is a fault with the horn (an intermittent one). Based on both sets of evidence, 
its clear there is a fault with the horn. However there is insufficient evidence for me to 
reasonably say there were any other faults as reported by Mr Y. 
However although I find that to be the case, I must consider whether the fault with the horn 
meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality at supply. In this case, I dont find it does. Ive 
already set out above the expectations of a used car especially one of considerable mileage. 
As mentioned, its very likely to start developing issues much sooner than a less travelled 
car.
In the absence of any other evidence, I find its reasonable to rely on the findings of the 
independent inspection as the person who carried it out is suitably qualified with the relevant 
expertise and knowledge of car mechanics. Having read the report, it concludes the fault 
with the horn is due to wear and tear and would be expected of a car of its age and mileage. 
Given the mileage covered by Mr Y (over 2,800 miles), it said on the balance of probability 
the fault wouldnt have been present or developing at supply. 
Based on the findings of the inspection report, I find the car was of satisfactory quality at 
supply and the fault with the horn is due to wear and tear. Therefore I wont be asking First 
Response to treat the agreement as being a rejection. 
Despite the findings of the inspection report, First Response still agreed to honour their initial 
offer of covering the cost of the repair for the faulty horn. I consider this be fair as theyre not 
obliged to do so, therefore I cant say theyve acted unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear about the fault Mr Y experienced with the car and his loss of confidence in it 
as he didnt consider it to be safe. I appreciate he relies on driving it to take him to his 
regular medical appointments so this situation has been difficult for him. Its clear he feels strongly about the matter so I understand he will be disappointed by my outcome but I hope 
he accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman