DRN-3022598
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim they made 
on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes in this decision are also intended to include the actions of its 
agents. 
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a summary of the events which led to this complaint. It 
does not therefore provide all of the details or, is it meant to be a complete timeline of what 
happened. 
Mr and Mrs G made a claim for assistance with legal costs in relation to a contract dispute. 
They were in dispute with a contractor whod been doing some work at their property. 
Great Lakes initially looked at the dispute but didnt think it would one that would be covered 
under the terms of the policy. It said for a claim to be accepted Mr and Mrs G would need to 
persuade it that the claim was proportionate to pursue, a successful recovery of costs could 
be made against the third party and that the legal action was more likely than not to be 
successful. Great Lakes explained this as the claim having a 51% or greater chance of 
succeeding. 
Great Lakes didnt think the claim would be covered because it had concerns a successful 
recovery of costs could be made and, it thought an experts report was needed. Mr and 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for the matter to be reconsidered, they said they had provided a 
report albeit it wasnt in the court format required. Great Lakes reviewed the claim and 
agreed to send it to a firm of solicitors on its panel, to assess if the legal action would more 
likely than not be successful. The advice received was that Mr and Mrs G needed to have a 
court compliant experts report completed for the matter to continue any further.
Mr and Mrs G obtained an appropriate report so Great Lakes asked the panel solicitor to 
review the matter again. The solicitor thought the claim now had a greater than 51% chance 
of succeeding, so Great Lakes agreed to accept and fund the claim. 
Having conducted a further review and gathered more information, the solicitor firm later 
updated Great Lakes to say that based on everything it had looked at, it now didnt think the 
claim would be likely to succeed. Based on this information, Great Lakes let Mr and Mrs G 
know it would not fund their claim any further. 
Mr and Mrs G were very unhappy about how their claim had been handled and complained 
to Great Lakes. They said they didnt think the claim had been assessed properly given the 
position changed several times. They were unhappy that the solicitor, having reviewed the 
claim and said it would be successful, then changed their mind. They dont think the solicitor 
should have reassessed the claim at that point. Mr and Mrs G also said they think Great 
Lakes had been obstructive, delayed matters and had provided incorrect and ill formed 
advice. They also said also the firm of solicitors had given inconsistent, flawed and 
contradictory advice.   
Great Lakes looked at the complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong in its 
handling of the claim. It explained it was a requirement of the policy that the underlying legal 
claim should have prospects of succeeding at all times and it was usual for the solicitor to 
keep it updated on progress of the claim.  
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Great Lakes response as they had indicated they had 
further information to provide. They didnt think Great Lakes should have provided its 
response without waiting for this information. They were also unhappy that Great Lakes 
didnt alter its response after having reviewed this information. So, Mr and Mrs G then 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He let Mr and Mrs G know he thought Great Lakes 
had acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with the claim. He explained this service cant 
review the actions of solicitors so, should Mr and Mrs G be unhappy about the advice that 
were given theyd need to take this up with the solicitor firm directly. The investigator 
explained to Mr and Mrs G that Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the expert advice it 
received and withdraw funding for the claim. He didnt think Great Lakes had delayed the 
progress of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so they reiterated many of the points they had 
previously made. They said they thought Great Lakes had a duty to investigate when it is 
found a solicitor firm on its panel provided flawed advice and instruct a new one  it didnt do 
this. 
Mr and Mrs G explained they had since instructed their own solicitor who had found the case 
to have a 55-60% chance of succeeding. Settlement of the legal claim was reached within 
five months.  Mr and Mrs G say they believe this shows their claim was not handled correctly 
and they want their legal costs reimbursed, as these should have been funded by the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the legal claim developed further after Great Lakes issued its response to Mr 
and Mrs Gs complaint. However, my decision here only concerns matters up to the date it 
issued that response.  Should Mr and Mrs G be unhappy about events that happened after 
that point they would need to address these to Great Lakes in the first instance. Should they 
be unhappy with its response, they can then bring their concerns to the service as a 
separate complaint. 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs G Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points 
they have made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by both parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
For a legal expense claim to be accepted, an insurer will undertake an initial review to see if 
the legal claim is one that would usually be covered under the policy and highlight any 
concerns at the start. This isnt unusual, an insurer wouldnt want to incur legal fees for a 
review on the prospects of the legal case, if it is one that ordinarily wouldnt be covered by the insurance policy. Or, it is obvious there is outstanding information that would usually be 
required before a full assessment could be made.
So, I dont think Great Lakes acted incorrectly by highlighting its concerns to Mr and Mrs G in 
the first instance. As Mr and Mrs G disputed the matter, I would have expected Great Lakes 
to consider their points and then forward the claim to a solicitor for review if that was 
appropriate. Again, Great Lakes did this, so I think they acted reasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy say that cover for legal expenses will be 
provided as long as sufficient prospects exist during the course of the claim. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either. 
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes. 
In Mr and Mrs Gs case, Great Lakes was advised by the panel firm of solicitors that 
prospects of success were not 51% or above as required by the policy. Mr and Mrs G has 
said this advice was flawed and had errors in it. However, having read the advice, I can see 
it is reasoned and sets out the challenges to the case.  I havent seen evidence to suggest 
this was obviously wrong at that point. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on it.
Mr and Mrs G questioned Great Lakes as to what further evidence they needed to provide, 
and Great Lakes put these queries to the solicitor as I would expect. The solicitor reiterated 
that were challenges to the case, but it would help if Mr and Mrs G obtained an experts 
report. 
Mr and Mrs G obtained a report and it was passed to the solicitor. Great Lakes was then 
informed that having had a cursory glance at it, the solicitor thought it was sufficient for the 
purposes of deeming the claim to have greater than 51% prospects of success. At this point, 
Great Lakes agreed to fund the claim, as I would have expected it to. 
Mr and Mrs G complain that a few months later the same solicitor changed their mind, which 
led to Great Lakes withdrawing cover for the claim. As Ive set out above, I think Great Lakes 
was entitled to rely on the lawyers advice it received so I dont think it acted incorrectly by 
withdrawing funding. Again, Ive read the advice I cant see it was obviously wrong or based 
on factual inaccuracies. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G would have been disappointed and frustrated at this point, 
however this service cant look it to the actions of solicitors. Solicitors have their own 
complaints procedures and regulations they must follow. So, Mr and Mrs G would need to 
follow that procedure if they are unhappy with the actions of the panel solicitor.
While understandably frustrating, it isnt unusual for prospects of a legal claim to change 
during the course of the claim as information is reviewed and considered further. 
I can see that when Great Lakes wrote to Mr and Mrs G it set out how they could challenge 
the lawyers opinion.  Wed usually expect a barristers opinion be sought where there are 
conflicting legal opinions, however each policy will usually set out its own requirements and 
who should fund the opinion.  I can see Great Lakes explained that to challenge the lawyers 
opinion Mr and Mrs G should provide a barristers opinion for which it would refund the fee if the opinion was supportive. I dont think this is unreasonable in light of what was set out in 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G say they had to chase the progress of the claim which I can see they did  
understandably, as the matter was important to them.  I realise overall the claim took quite a 
while to progress, however this itself isnt unusual for insurance claims involving legal issues. 
Having reviewed the information available to me I cant see that Great Lakes were 
responsible for any unavoidable delays. It dealt with Mr and Mrs Gs correspondence 
appropriately and it chased the position of the claim with the solicitor as I would have 
expected it to do. 
Mr and Mrs G have said they are unhappy about how Great Lakes handled their complaint. 
Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity so, while I can understand Mr and Mrs G 
were further disappointed Great Lakes provided its response before they set out full details 
of their complaint in writing, I cant look into those concerns. 
Overall, having considered everything, while I can understand Mr and Mrs Gs frustration 
and disappointment about how the claim developed, I dont think Great Lakes acted 
unreasonably in its handling of it. I also think it acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the of policy when it withdrew funding for the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman