DRN-3701397
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
(including battery and smart energy trading system) he says were misrepresented to him by 
the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2020, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The system was subsequently installed.
In September 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to 
enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The solar panels would pay for themselves due to a combination of the energy bill 
savings and the income received via the battery. There would be an immediate 
financial benefit to our client, and he wouldnt have to make any financial outlay.
Our client currently pays £125.48 a month under the finance agreement with you, yet 
only receives a benefit from the solar panels of approximately £19.00 per month 
(from the Social Energy income and a slight reduction in electricity bills):
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The quotation is not accurate against the actual savings the system has produced.
The client was not taken through the quotation which was not produced until after the 
sale had been agreed.
P has a history of misrepresenting the solar panel systems. The Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (RECC) found against P.
Ps own sales literature confirms our clients allegations in terms of the system 
benefits covering the finance.
The client purchased the system to make money, not to wait 20 years just to break 
even.
It is clear that the system would not be appealing to a consumer based on the solar 
quotation in isolation.
There are hundreds of similar allegations of the same sales practices.
The High Court has found in favour of claimants in similar circumstances.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has found in favour of numerous clients in similar 
circumstances, however a document provided after the event which contradicts the 
sales pitch had significant weight attached to it to appear to reverse these previous 
decisions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement, quote Your Personal Solar Quotation and contract Your 
Personal Solar Contract. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection 
of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. The quote provided some different options for what type of system Mr S could buy. I think it 
is likely that these options were discussed before Mr S chose which he wanted, and the 
contract was then drawn up. 
The contract is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. My understanding is 
that this was generated during the sales meeting on a tablet or laptop. 
P says the contract formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of P 
would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the system, 
prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr S signed this contract during the 
meeting.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
contract did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the 
salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with 
the Mr Ss version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £11,522.70. The 
contract sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out 
that the cash price of the system was £11,522.70. The monthly payment was £125.06. The 
total amount of credit is £11,423.70 and goes on to show that the total amount payable 
would be £15,057.18.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ss recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The contract makes this clear. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the contract and the credit agreement, made it 
clear that although the cost of the system was £11,522.70, it would cost Mr S more than this 
as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr S has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the financial benefits of the system. That would mean he was expecting benefits 
from the system of at least £125.48 per month or £1,505.76 per year. Ive considered the 
contract that was provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of the meeting with to decide 
what is most likely to have been said. The contract included the following information:
This makes clear that, on average over 30 years, the system would provide a financial 
benefit of £1,019.95 per year. This is considerably less than the annual loan repayments of 
£1,505.76. So, I think it wouldve been clear from this that the system would not be self-
funding within the term of the loan (because on average the financial benefits would not 
meet or exceed the loan repayments). 
This also clearly shows an average return on investment of 8.85% per year and a payback 
time of 17 years based on a cash purchase. Mr S had agreed to pay for the purchase using 
an interest-bearing loan, so I think he ought to have understood that his return on investment 
would be less than this and his payback time longer. This is supported and made clearer by 
other information in the contract which I discuss below. 
The contract had a section that clearly showed the following:
Directly below this, on the same page of the contract, there is a table that clearly shows the 
estimated annual output or savings from the system would be £456.68. So, on this one page 
it is easy to compare the monthly loan repayments of £125.48 with the annual benefit of the 
system £456.68. While this compares monthly repayments with annual benefits, I think it is 
clear that £456.68 would be less than 12 monthly repayments of £125.48. And as such the 
annual benefits of the system would not cover the annual loan repayments. 
The contract included the following graph showing how the year one benefits would be 
spread out through the year. This shows the monthly benefits ranging from less than £6 to 
about £26. This is far below the monthly loan repayment of £125.48.
The contract contains the following graph. This clearly shows that the annual loan 
repayments (annual cost of the system) exceed the benefits throughout the loan term. This 
difference is described as a shortfall, with the shortfall being recouped by around year 20. 
Theres a section headed All Your Repayment Options with a number of tables showing 
different loan options. Ive focused on the table for 120 monthly loan repayments on a loan 
where the first payment is deferred for 12 months. This is the loan that Mr S entered into with 
Ikano. 
This shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £125.48. It shows the one-
year benefit for each year of the loan (Acc. grand total). It shows the average monthly 
return for that year (Est. monthly return) for each year. And the difference between that 
average monthly return and the monthly loan repayment. 
This provides the average difference between the monthly financial benefit of the system 
and the monthly loan repayment in each year. For every year this shows a negative figure, 
indicating that the average monthly benefits of the system in each year would be less than 
the monthly loan repayment. 
I think the contract makes it clear that the benefits of the system would not meet the loan 
repayments on a monthly or annual basis throughout the term of the loan. And that Mr S 
could expect to break even  that is that the benefits of the system would exceed the total 
loan repayments  after about 20 years. 
With this in mind  and given that I think Mr S was most likely taken through the contract 
before he signed it   I think it is unlikely that Mr S was told the system would be self-funding 
on a monthly basis or within the term of the loan. However, it does appear that Mr S was told 
the system would be self-funding over about 20 years. 
The what will you earn and save per year page of the contract has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by the end of year 21 the overall benefits that 
Mr S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself in 
around 20 years, and this is supported by the table above. The CMC says the benefits of the 
system have not matched what is shown in this table. However, I think it is difficult to predict 
the benefits of this system  a fact that is also stated in the contract. It will depend in large 
part on how Mr S uses electricity within his home, and on the price of electricity, which will all 
affect what he saves by using solar electricity himself as it is produced and from what is 
saved in his battery, and what is exported to the grid in exchange for a credit on his bills. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable. So, I do not think the 
figures quoted on the contract were misrepresentations, but reasonable estimates. 
I understand the system may be underperforming in terms of electricity generated compared 
to the generation figure shown on the contract and MCS certificate. The CMC says it raised 
underperformance as part of its claim. But I can see that it only did this in terms of the 
financial benefits of the system not matching what Mr S was told to expect. As such, I will not 
consider the matter of under generation of electricity as part of this decision  Ikano has not 
been given the opportunity to look into or respond to that issue. There may simply be a fault 
with the system which can be repaired. If Mr S wants to pursue that issue he may be able to 
do so as a new claim or complaint. 
Ive thought about what the CMC has said about the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC) disciplinary action against P, the training documents it has provided, and the high 
court judgement, which was against another lender and solar panel supplier. But I dont think 
that this information is more persuasive in terms of what happened during Mr S sale than 
the documents he was provided with and signed at the time. I think the personalised 
documents that were specific to Mr Ss sale are more persuasive, which is why Ive given 
them more evidential weight when making my decision.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that P did not misrepresent the system in the way alleged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman