DRN-1986531
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) caused delays 
in managing her car theft claim which has led her to incur unnecessary expenses.
What happened
Mrs Ms car was stolen from her drive. She reported the theft to the police and made a claim 
against her insurance policy. Her insurance policy didnt provide her with a courtesy car.
Mrs Ms situation meant she needed a car to drive to work. Mrs M chose to hire a car until 
her insurance claim was settled. She expected to hire the car for a few weeks.  After a few 
weeks had passed, it became too costly for her. So, Mrs M decided to purchase another car 
from savings.
It took longer than Mrs M expected for the claim to be settled. Mrs M says that Admirals 
case handler had told her that the delay was down to Admiral waiting for the police report.
Mrs M said Admiral applied for the police report around one month after the vehicle was 
stolen. The police issued the report within two weeks of the request. Mrs M indicated that the 
police had informed her that Admiral had repeatedly requested information from them. 
However, Mrs M says the police have told her that Admiral had been requesting information 
through the wrong channel and they had continued to do this even though they had been 
told by the police.  
Mrs M says she expected to incur some hire car charges whilst her claim was being settled. 
However, the period of car hire needed has been much longer than she thought it would be.  
And she thinks this was because Admiral didnt apply for the police report in the correct 
manner.
Mrs M raised a complaint. In response, Admiral has paid Mrs M £200 compensation (£25 for 
calls and £175 for lacking proactivity in dealing with her claim).  Admiral were not willing to 
pay any contribution towards hire car costs as they said these were not covered by Mrs Ms 
insurance policy.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and looked at two aspects:
Admiral acknowledged some delays in settling the claim. He thought Admiral had 
been fair to compensate Mrs M for these by paying £200.
Our investigator looked at the impact of the delays and thought they extended the car 
hire. He said Admiral should compensate Mrs M for her financial loss
Admiral disagreed with the investigator saying it had requested information from the police 
one working day after the theft was reported and have chased the information many times 
since. They then applied for the police report as a last resort to confirm the full details of the 
theft.  
Admiral said they were proactive in trying to obtain the relevant information. They said they 
didnt apply for a police report initially as it can cause long delays depending on the police 
force, they are dealing with.
As the investigators view has been rejected by Admiral, this case has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs M will have been worried about the hire car costs she was paying 
whilst her claim was being settled and she may have felt like she had little control over the 
outcome of her claim and the delay.
I agree with the investigators view that £200 is reasonable and fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mrs M for the delays in settling the claim. Admiral have 
accepted this and paid Mrs M.
Admiral said they have been proactive in trying to obtain the relevant information from the 
police. They have provided evidence of emails shared with the police. However, Admirals 
stance has changed from what they wrote in their final response letter. One of the reasons 
they state for offering compensation is for lack of proactivity in dealing with the claim. This 
seems to contradict what they are now saying.  
I dont think Admiral have been proactive. Admiral has said that they have not provided a 
good enough customer service. The notes from the complaint highlight Admiral have not 
been efficient in managing the claim.
Although Mrs M is not entitled to a courtesy hire car under her insurance policy, I need to 
consider whether the inefficiency in Admirals handling of the claim has contributed to 
additional and avoidable costs for Mrs M. I also need to look at whether Mrs M took actions 
to mitigate her financial loss.
It is my view Admiral have contributed to Mrs M suffering a financial loss. Admiral have 
recorded within their own internal investigation notes, that they should have applied for the 
police report 11 days earlier than they did. When they submitted their request for the police 
report, a further 11 days elapsed before the report request was properly submitted such that 
the police were happy to act on it. Once the report request was properly submitted, the 
report was issued 11 days later which allowed the claim to be settled.
In addition, it was also recorded within Admirals investigation notes that they could have 
asked questions about the theft earlier, particularly to ascertain exactly how the keys to the 
car were stolen. I think it is also fair to assume that the police report could have been 
requested earlier than it was, which is likely to have led to the claim being settled earlier.
I believe Mrs M acted in a reasonable way to try and mitigate her additional hire car costs.  
She provided information to Admiral in a timely way, she was in frequent contact with 
Admiral to try and progress her claim and when she knew her car would be fully written off, 
she purchased a new car.  
I think Admirals delay caused Mrs M to suffer a financial loss as she needed to hire a car for 
a longer period Ive considered the additional hire charges Mrs M has incurred as a result of these delays. I 
dont think it would be fair to expect Admiral to have requested the police report on the day 
Mrs M made her insurance claim. I estimate the loss as 28 days of hire car charges. Its 
based on 22 days of delay that can be identified in the timeline, plus a small allowance as I 
think the police report could still have been requested earlier. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons I have given I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Ltd to pay £500.19 for 28 days hire charges Mrs M has incurred 
during the delay in her claim. 
Admiral Insurance Company Ltd has paid Mrs M £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset it has caused. I think this is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman