DRN-2426011
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance (Soteria) further 
damaged his car when it repaired it after a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
Mr Y is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
 
What happened
On 5 February 2020 Mr Ys car was damaged in an accident that wasnt his fault. This was 
reported to Soteria. It appointed one of its approved repairers to carry out the required 
repairs, which included a new front wing. 
When trying to collect his car from the repairers, Mr Y noticed that the work hadnt been 
done properly. The new wing hadnt been fitted correctly. And itd been dented during the 
repair process. There was other visible damage on the car which shouldve been fixed by the 
repairers. 
So Mr Y spoke to the manager at the approved repairer. He agreed the work wasnt 
satisfactory and agreed to put it right. During this conversation, Mr Y said he specifically 
asked for the wing to be replaced with a new one. And he says that the manager agreed to 
this request.
After hed collected the car, Mr Y noticed that the wing had been repaired rather than 
replaced. So he complained to Soteria. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that repairing 
the damage to the new wing was a commercially acceptable repair. But it offered £50 as an 
apology to Mr Y for the poor service hed had from the approved repairer.
Mr Y wasnt happy with the response. So he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He said that Soteria should replace the wing with a new 
one. And - given a third repair would be needed - he felt that Soteria should increase the 
amount itd offered for inconvenience to £100.
Soteria didnt agree. It said its engineers had confirmed that the minor dent in the first 
replacement wing would be repairable. So it didnt think a second new wing was needed. Mr 
Y didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Soteria treated Mr Y fairly and reasonably when it declined to 
replace the damaged wing with a new one. Based on everything Soteria and Mr Y have 
provided and said, Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First I note that the issue of a new wing is secondary to the repair being of suitable quality. 
So I need to decide if the quality of the repair was appropriate. 
Soteria has already tried to repair the wing, rather than replacing it, as allegedly was 
promised. But Mr Y isnt happy with the quality of the repair. He says its already impacted 
the value of the car when he tried to sell it. So, although Soteria has had an opportunity to try 
to repair the wing, the repairs werent of an acceptable quality to Mr Y. 
In deciding whether its fair and reasonable under the circumstances to ask Soteria to do 
more, I need to be satisfied that there are still some problems with the repaired wing.
Soteria says its not seen evidence to show theres any damage to the wing. Mr Ys photos 
of the damage arent conclusive. But as far as I can see they show a small external dent and 
some white interior markings. So I need to decide whether Mr Y has lost out due to the 
attempted repair. 
Mr Y has said I have also tried to sell the car a few times and have had potential buyers 
viewing to then ask about the white patch which is clearly visible when the bonnet is open. 
When I advised that it's a protector to protect against rust the second question I am faced 
with it well why is it only on one side and not the other. This alone means that I have to 
declare the car as accidental and repaired which means the value of the car is lower than 
what it should be. This is surely unfair on my behalf as I should not have to lose out due to 
the repairer being incompetent and damaging a brand new wing.
Mr Y has also said The car was meant to have been repaired to a state the car was in pre 
accident condition and my wing has no white patches on it nor did it have a filler job which 
this wing does and then for me to accept it. 
When repairs are carried out by the insurers approved repairer and the repairer damages 
the consumers vehicle, we expect the insurer to put things right. In this case, there is a 
disagreement between the insurer and the consumer about what putting things right 
means. Soteria thinks it means repairing the replacement wing. Mr Y thinks its getting 
another new wing.
Its not disputed that the approved repairer Soteria appointed to carry out the accident 
repairs on Mr Ys car didnt do a good job. They clearly didnt check that the repairs had 
been carried out appropriately before Mr Y came to collect his car. Soteria has apologised 
for the poor service provided by their approved repaired and offered Mr Y £50 
compensation. 
When we consider complaints about the quality of repairs by an insurers approved repairer, 
we look at all the available evidence. Its initially for Mr Y to show that he has a valid claim 
against his policy. I think hes done that here. 
I think that it was reasonable for Mr Y to expect his car to be returned to its pre loss condition 
 that may or may not involve a new wing depending on the quality of the repair. In this case 
Soteria felt a new wing was required initially as the original wing was so badly damaged in 
the accident. But that doesnt necessarily mean that a new wing is required now. The 
question is whether the car has been returned to its pre loss condition in a reasonable way 
by a suitable repair. Mr Y says it hasnt. Soteria disagrees. 
Soteria has provided comments from its engineering manager:
It is not uncommon for brand new components, wings, doors, bonnets etc to have some 
form of repair or adjustments completed in order to make them fit correctly. I agree with this 
statement. But this isnt what happened here. The new wing hasnt been adjusted to make it 
fit correctly. The repair was required due to the approved repairer damaging the new wing.The engineering manager also said: 
The minor repair that the wing has had hasnt caused any detriment to the vehicle 
whatsoever. As an example; had we been dealing with this vehicle for a diminution claim as 
we do with TP claims, diminution would not apply to a bolt on panel / component.  While this 
is a reasonable point, I dont think its fair to apply it in these circumstances. The damage 
wasnt caused in the accident. It was caused by the approved repairer. If the approved 
repairer had damaged a different part of the car  one which hadnt been damaged in the 
original accident  I would expect them to either ensure the customer was completely 
satisfied with the repair, or offer to replace the part theyd damaged.
The engineering manager also said:
The ph vehicle has been reinstated to its pre incident condition and the ph has been 
indemnified as per his policy, the integrity and value of the ph vehicle has not been 
impacted.. But Mr Y disagrees. He says the visible repair is making his car harder to sell.
Soteria has also said that Mr Y hasnt provided evidence that there was further damage or a 
report to confirm that the repairs werent satisfactory following the most recent repairs. So it 
cant say that the vehicle was returned in a worse state then when it went in. I agree that 
the photos Mr Y has shared dont conclusively prove the car is in a worse state than before 
the accident. But Im persuaded from the photos and from what Mr Y has said that the value 
of his car has been affected.  
Engineers reports can be persuasive in deciding cases like this one, especially if they are 
independent. However, I dont consider the comments from Soterias engineering manager 
to be persuasive. The engineering manager didnt inspect the car and didnt take what Mr Y 
had said about the repairs impact on selling the car into account. 
 
Taking all the evidence into account, on balance of probabilities, I consider that its likely the 
car hasnt been put back in the same condition it was in before the accident. While I can see 
that Soteria has tried to repair the wing to an acceptable standard, I consider theyve failed 
to bring the wing back to its pre loss condition. Soteria has already had an opportunity to try 
to repair the wing. But Im persuaded that this attempt wasnt completely successful. 
 
Putting things right
I require Soteria to provide and fit a completely new wing to Mr Ys car. 
Soteria should also pay Mr Y a total of £100 for the inconvenience hes had to go through to 
get his car repaired to an acceptable standard. If Soteria has already paid the £50 it 
originally offered Mr Y, it should allow for that when it makes the rest of the payment.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
I require Soteria Insurance Limited to provide and fit a completely new wing to Mr Ys car. 
And to pay him a total of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Soteria Insurance Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ys accepted my 
final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this it should add interest to the 
compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the date it makes the 
payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman