DRN-1682063
 
The complaint
Mr N complains Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in March 2001. The policy 
was added to Mr Ns credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr N's complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr N's complaint because:
I think Canada Square Operations made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and a 
separate product from the credit card, and that he chose to take it. I say this because the 
online application process included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI and Mr 
N clicked the yes box to confirm that he wanted it. Im not surprised Mr N cant remember 
this as it took place so long ago.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mr N chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr N would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
But Canada Square will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because Canada 
Square didnt tell Mr N, that was unfair. To put that right, Canada Square has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Canada Square has to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Canada Square should also pay back to Mr N any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Canada Square should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr N the difference 
between what Mr N owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Canada Square should also pay Mr N 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr N can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman