DRN-1506694
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Nationwide has paid interest on her savings account.
What happened
On 30 November 2017 Miss S opened a Flexclusive Regular Saver 2 account at her local 
Nationwide branch. She said the account was advertised as offering an interest rate of 5% 
gross per annum. And she said she was informed by staff in branch that the interest would 
be paid on the final balance when the account matured on 29 November 2018.
Miss S credited her account with a deposit of £250. And she said the account required 
further credits of £250 per month for 12 months, which she paid. Miss S was expecting to 
receive around £150 interest on the balance when her account matured. But she received 
only £94.23 interest. 
Miss S wasnt happy with the amount of interest she received. She said she wasnt made 
aware that interest was compounded daily and she felt shed been misinformed by the staff 
member who had opened her account about how interest accrued. So, she complained to 
Nationwide.
After Nationwide investigated what had happened it told her it had correctly paid compound 
interest on a daily basis. It told her it believed Miss S had been provided with correct 
information about how interest would accrue when her account was opened. And it said it 
hadnt made any errors in calculating the interest on her account. So, it didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Nationwides response to her complaint. So, she referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator empathised with Miss S but didnt uphold her 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think Nationwide had made an error or treated Miss S unfairly. 
So, they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Miss S disagreed and asked an 
ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Miss S and Nationwide have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S states she was told interest would be calculated on the maturity of her account. 
However, Nationwide disputes that. Its told our service that the member of staff that opened 
Miss S account is no longer employed by it, which meant it hasnt been able to obtain a statement from that individual as to the information that had been provided when the account 
was opened. But, it said the member of staff in question was well known. So, it was 
confident they understood that interest was calculated on a daily basis rather than on 
maturity of the account. And it therefore didnt think theyd have informed Miss S interest 
would be paid on the maturity date.
Nationwide also said its accounts are provided on a non-advised basis. So, staff wouldnt 
give advice on accounts to customers when theyre opened. It said, instead, customers are 
provided with a summary box sheet and the accounts full terms and conditions, which detail 
how interest is calculated and when its paid. Nationwide also told our service that its a 
customers responsibility to decide whether the account is suitable for their requirements. I 
dont think thats unreasonable. 
Miss S informed our investigator that Nationwide told her, during a telephone call, it had 
made a mistake in how her interest had been calculated. But Ive listened to the call in 
question and that isnt what Miss S was told. Instead, the call handler carefully explained 
how interest due on the account was calculated. And they said many customers 
misunderstand how interest is calculated. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S but I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that 
Nationwide told her that interest would be paid on the final balance when the account 
matured as shes told our service. 
Miss S said she wasnt provided with documentation relevant to her account at the time of its 
opening. But Nationwide refuted this because it said there was nothing recorded to make it 
reasonably think it hadnt followed its usual process of providing documentation to customers 
opening an account.
Its possible that Miss S wasnt provided the information Nationwide thinks it gave her. I say 
this because I can see shes endorsed her account opening application form stating she 
hasnt seen the terms and conditions or information about the account. And Im not 
persuaded that the absence of an entry in the records proves that the account 
documentation was given to Miss S at the time of the event. 
However, Miss S chose to open her account and use it without sight of crucial account 
information. And I think the onus was on her to seek out information she says she hadnt 
been provided  particularly when the interest rate was clearly important to her. She could 
have obtained that information directly from Nationwide or online. And this information would 
have enabled her to make an informed choice as to whether she was happy with the way in 
which interest was paid  and, ultimately, whether she wanted to continue to use the 
account.
Miss S told our service that theres no reference anywhere to interest being compounded on 
a daily basis. So, Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of her account that were 
in place in November 2017 when the account was opened. The terms have been updated 
since then. But the 2017 terms set out how in details how interest is earned on savings in 
clear intelligible language.
The terms confirm that interest is calculated daily and paid annually on anniversary of 
account opening and on closure of the account. So I think its clear that interest is 
compounded on a daily basis and not calculated on the final balance when the account 
matures. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I cant agree with Miss S that Nationwide mis-sold her 
account to her. And Im satisfied the interest Miss S accrued is in line with the terms of her account. It follows that I cant fairly ask Nationwide to increase the amount of interest its 
credited her account.
I understand that Miss S has raised concerns regarding the clarity of information presented 
in Nationwides literature. However, there were limitations as to what our service can do here 
on Miss S behalf. 
I appreciate she may want our service to tell Nationwide to change its literature. But, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution. So, 
I dont have the power to tell Nationwide to make the changes Miss S feels it should make. I 
can see our investigator has signposted Miss S to the FCA should she wish to pursue this 
issue further.
I appreciate the reasons why Miss S brought this complaint to our service. But for the 
reasons given Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong here. So, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint. 
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Miss S further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman