DRN-2910977
The complaint
Mr R complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has unfairly voided his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In July 2020, Mr R made a claim for suspected subsidence on his home insurance policy. 
Red Sands considered the claim and looked at the information Mr R had provided it when he 
renewed the policy in April 2020. 
When Mr R renewed his policy, he confirmed online I am able to provide a certificate of 
adequacy or chartered surveyors report to evidence that previous subsidence was 
adequality rectified and there are no ongoing issues or further movement. However, when 
Red Sands investigated this further it found Mr R had made a previous declined subsidence 
claim that wasnt disclosed and he couldnt provide the relevant documentation. So, it said 
Mr R had made a deliberate non-disclosure and therefore refused the claim and voided the 
policy back to the last renewal.
Mr R feels he answered all the questions at renewal accurately based on the information he 
knew and had available to him. Hed had a claim declined by his previous insurer in 2019. It 
identified a range of causes for movement to the property as well as an issue to the 
underground drains. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt feel Red Sands had shown that there was 
a previous subsidence claim that resulted in repairs, specifically for subsidence issues. So, 
although Mr R had said yes to being able to provide a certificate of adequacy or chartered 
surveyors report as there had been no previous subsidence claim, she didnt think it was fair 
for Red Sands to decline the claim based on this and avoid the policy. 
Red Sands disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary it said;
Mr R had submitted a claim for structural movement to his previous insurer and not 
damage to drains so two claims were in fact submitted and this wasnt disclosed to it.
The structural movement is in an area different to the historical subsidence identified 
on the HomeBuyers report. The property therefore has structural issues which all 
pre-date the policy period.
Mr R didnt disclose that the property currently had cracks he said it previously had 
damage. It says if he had disclosed this, no subsidence cover wouldve been offered.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The relevant law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
In determining whether Mr R took reasonable care the relevant law says that should be 
determined in the light of all the circumstances. And it provides examples of things that may 
need to be taken into account; how clear and how specific the insurers questions were, in 
connection with a renewal of an insurance contract, how clearly the insurer communicated 
the importance of answering those questions (or the possible consequences of failing to do 
so). 
If a consumer fails to do this, then the insurer can act if its shown theres whats been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. This means the insurer must show that the misrepresentation 
has affected the way they wouldve offered a policy, or chosen not to offer one, had the 
consumer not made the misrepresentation. 
Mr R originally took out a policy in April 2019 and told Red Sands;
a. The property had suffered from subsidence but without any ongoing damage. 
b. He had made a claim for Underground pipes (gas/water/electric) with a payment of 
£250. 
Mr R was sent a reminder to renew his policy by email on 31 March 2020. It was highlighted 
in red that there were some changes to his policy and one of these changes said; for 
subsidence cover to be valid the previous repair needs to be evidenced by a structural 
survey report or certificate of adequacy.  Mr R renewed his policy online on the 27 April 
2020 and declared the following (the underlined words are what Mr R couldve changed in 
the declaration that he was agreeing to) 
The property has previously had some cracks wider than 3mm on internal or external walls 
i.e. damage caused by subsidence. These were caused by water leaking from underground 
pipes/drains. I am able to provide a certificate of adequacy or chartered surveyors report to 
evidence that previous subsidence was adequately rectified and there are no ongoing issues 
or further movement.
If Mr R had said the property currently had some cracks rather than previously he would 
have seen the following message;
Given you have ongoing subsidence issues or are unable to evidence adequacy of repairs,
subsidence cover will be excluded until this can be evidenced as adequately repaired and 
you update your policy accordingly.
When Mr R claimed on his policy in July 2020, he said the the floor in the hallway has fallen. 
Staircase has fallen. Cracks widened.  Red Sands made investigations into the claim Mr R 
had made with his previous insurer and said the issues he was raising with it were a 
continuation of his previous insurance claim and he should contact his previous insurer. 
Red Sands say that because Mr R said he was able to provide the documentation forthe repairs as part of the previous claim, but subsequently couldnt, that hed failed to 
disclose that the property had an ongoing subsidence issue.
Ive seen the email from Mr Rs previous insurer sent to Mr R in October 2020 which says 
that no repairs were done as a result of the claim he raised with it. It says, In the event, 
there was damage to the drains (which was repaired by A..) but this was remote from the 
damage reported to the main house as such the engineer confirmed his original thoughts 
that the damage towards the front of the house was not due to subsidence.
I am persuaded that this confirms there isnt an ongoing subsidence claim. I wouldnt expect 
Mr R to know exactly what part of the policy he was claiming under when he raised an 
incident for movement with his previous insurer. He asked his previous insurer to look into it 
and although it started as a subsidence claim it became an underground pipe claim and Mr 
R disclosed this claim to Red Sands. 
I dont think Red Sands has shown that the property has suffered from subsidence. It has 
mentioned the HomeBuyers report Mr R had done when he bought the property. There is 
mention under section E4 Main walls  No serious defects or urgent repairs - Undulation of 
the bricks above the conservatory suggests that the property has suffered a foundation 
failure. This is likely to be long standing and unlikely to progress. And under section F4 
Floors  No serious defects or urgent repairs. The reception room floors both appear to be 
crowned probably due to initial settlement of the outside walls being greater than those that 
support the mid points of the floors. The movement is unlikely to progress.  I dont think this 
alone evidences subsidence, as the movement appears to be historic and in a different area 
to where the issues are in the property at present. 
I think Mr R is understandably concerned as he thinks his property is moving, so much so he 
has had a company come to stabilise the corner of the property. However, movement in a 
property isnt always as a result of subsidence. But Mr R seems to think his property has 
subsidence and even from when he took out the policy, he declared that. It seems to me, 
because he has thought this was the case and because he had evidence that the drains had 
been fixed, he thought this was the documentation he would need to provide. But I am not 
persuaded there is subsidence and from what Ive seen no current or progressive 
subsidence has been identified. So, I dont think its fair for Red Sands to have avoided Mr 
Rs policy. And he cant produce documents to evidence repairs for subsidence as there 
hasnt been any identified. I therefore dont think there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Putting things right
I therefore uphold this complaint and instruct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to;
reinstate Mr Rs policy and remove any reference to the cancelled policy from any 
internal or external database.
investigate Mr Rs claim to see if there is an insured event covered by the policy. If 
there is for it to consider the works Mr R has undertaken, and costs involved.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman