DRN-3960793
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc did not remove his ex-wife as a financial connection on 
an account which has affected his credit rating. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. In summary, Mr D asked for his ex-wife, who Ill call X, to be removed from a 
TSB joint account in June 2021. This was completed but TSB continued to report her as an 
account holder on the joint account to the credit referencing agencies. Mr D discovered this 
when he received a reduced interest rate offer on a loan application with a third-party 
provider. 
TSB acknowledged the error and paid Mr D £250 compensation. They also arranged for X to 
be removed as an account holder on the joint account with the credit referencing agencies 
(CRAs). They gave a timeline of eight weeks, however Mr D has said this was only removed 
following extensive chasing from him with the CRAs. 
Our investigator recommended an uphold of the complaint and an increase in compensation 
of £200, bringing the total to £450. TSB did not agree with the recommendation as they said 
they had they requested for Mr Ds credit file to amended and had said this could take up to 
eight weeks to appear on his credit file. And they explained that a financial association can 
remain on a credit file for up to six years and this was not due to an error on TSBs part.
The complaint was passed to me to review in full. Having done so, I came to a different 
outcome to that of the Investigator. I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
I currently think that the £250 already awarded is fair in the circumstances and Im not 
minded to increase it. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, its not in dispute that TSB made an error that led to X appearing on information they 
reported to CRAs and that it was Mr D who realised this and brought it to their attention. TSB 
has explained that it is unclear why this continued to happen but as both parties are in 
agreement that it should not have done, I dont think this needs to be looked into further.
There are some outstanding issues however, in particular, Mr D feels TSB did not contact 
the CRAs as they say they did, and he feels it was his chasing which led to the information 
being removed from his credit file. 
Ive considered this carefully and have looked over the evidence Mr D provided. In his 
communication with the CRAs I can see they confirm in an email from 7 October 2022 that 
the account was still showing as joint at that time. However, I can also see that they say the 
TSB account was last updated on 31 August 2022, which was the same date as the final 
response letter issued by TSB in which they confirm they had requested for X to be removed 
that day. The evidence therefore suggests TSB did contact the CRAs on 31 August 2022 as 
they said they would. However, they also explained it could take up to eight weeks for this to 
be reflected on Mr Ds credit file. And theyve confirmed this was finally processed on 12 
October, which is within the eight-week timescale.
Looking at this, the evidence suggests that TSB did contact the CRAs as they said they 
would and that the information was processed within the timescale they set out in the final 
response letter. However, Mr D highlighted that X was still appearing in the financial 
associations section of this credit file. This is where I feel there has been a 
misunderstanding of what TSB is responsible for.
TSB has explained that a financial association will remain on a credit file for up to six years. 
As X shared a joint account with Mr D, she therefore appears on the financial association 
section of his credit file. This will not necessarily be removed just because Mr D no longer 
has a joint account with X and, more importantly, it is not TSBs responsibility to ensure this 
is removed. If Mr D no longer wants to be financially linked to X, he can ask the CRAs 
directly to have a notice of disassociation added to his credit file and to amend his credit file 
to remove the link. Its possible this has already been completed following Mr Ds 
communication with the CRAs over this issue.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think the £250 already awarded for TSB continuing to 
report the account as joint to the CRAs is fair and is in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. Ive explained above why I feel TSB did act quickly to 
remove the incorrect information once they were made aware and it was processed within 
the timescale mentioned in the final response letter. And it is not TSBs responsibility to 
remove X from Mr Ds financial associations on his credit file, so I dont think they have 
made an error in the circumstances. And I dont think TSB needs to increase the 
compensation further.
TSB responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings. 
Mr D responded and expressed his disappointment with the outcome. He requested that I 
obtain the telephone call recording from the day of the final response letter as he says the 
contents do not tally with the later position taken by TSB.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ds additional comments and I can appreciate that my provisional findings 
would be disappointing to him. Mr D has asked that I listen to a phone call between himself 
and TSB on the day that the final response letter was issued. It is unclear if this phone call 
would still be available almost a year later and in any event, I dont think it is necessary to 
reach a fair outcome.
I based my findings on the final response letter, communications between Mr D and the 
CRAs, Mr Ds testimony and the way in which credit files work. And I dont think a phone call 
between Mr D and TSB on the day of the final response letters would materially change 
these findings. I explained in my provisional decision why I think its more likely TSB did 
contact the CRAs on 31 August 2022 but it took closer to eight weeks for the information to 
appear as changed on his credit file. And I explained why X would not have automatically 
been removed as a financial connection on Mr Ds credit file just because she was no longer 
appearing as a joint account holder. So, TSB had not made an error when this was still 
remaining on Mr Ds credit file. 
Because of this, I think Ive reached a fair outcome with the available evidence and I dont 
think more is needed. So, for the reasons outlined above, I think the £250 compensation already awarded to Mr D is fair redress in this complaint and I dont recommend that it be 
increased.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman