DRN-3642205
The complaint
Mrs J complains Santander UK Plc sent statements to her old address and then restricted 
her account leaving her with no access to her funds whilst shes been living abroad.
Mrs J is represented by her daughter, Miss M.
What happened
Mrs J changed her address with Santander in July 2021. She says she complained to 
Santander that it had sent statements to her old address after this date. Santander wasnt 
satisfied that it was Mrs J calling to raise this complaint. So, it restricted her account.
Santander explained Mrs J would need to visit a branch to have the account unblocked.
Mrs J explained to Santander that she was now living abroad and in the process of 
applying for residency so couldnt return to the UK. She asked Santander to allow her to 
unblock her account another way, but Santander refused.
The complaint was referred to us by Miss M on behalf of Mrs J. Mrs J still doesnt have 
access to her account almost a year later. Mrs J has had to use credit cards for day to day 
spending. She says shes missed out on a property purchase because of this.
Our Investigator was satisfied that Santander was entitled to restrict the account. And he 
thought Mrs J had likely provided an incorrect house name when she changed the address. 
Overall, our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be looked at again, so it was passed to 
me to review. I issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2022. In this, I said:
There are two issues I need to consider here. For ease, Ill address them separately.
Statements being sent to an incorrect address
Its clear that once Mrs J changed her address, the house name was incorrect. Miss M 
says this was a breach of data protection. Because we dont have the call where Mrs J 
changed the address, I cant know for sure whether this was a mistake by Mrs J or 
Santander. But I dont think this makes a difference overall. Its clear Mrs J got this 
statement given that she complained about the address being incorrect. I cant see that 
her data has been compromised in this situation. If Mrs J thinks her data protection rights 
have been breached, she should raise this with the Information Commissioner.
Mrs J says that statements for her account were sent to her old address after she 
changed it. Santander denies this. Miss M has provided us with a copy of statements sent 
after Mrs J changed her address. Two of these statements were accounts in joint names 
and both of these were sent to Mrs Js old address. The one account in Mrs Js sole name 
was sent to the new address Mrs J had provided to Santander.
The joint accounts are held in the name of Mrs J and her husband. We dont have his 
consent to consider a complaint about an account he is named on at this stage. As our 
Investigator has explained, if Mrs J and her husband wish to complain about a problem 
with their joint account, we will need to consider this as a separate complaint. So I wont 
make any finding on that here.
Ive seen no evidence that Santander did send statements for Mrs Js sole account to her 
old address after she changed it. As Ive said above, the statement shes provided us from 
around the time of the complaint was sent to the new address shed provided to Santander, 
albeit with the house name initially incorrect. So, I dont intend to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Santander restricting the account and refusing to unblock it
Santander is required to protect its customers money. And for this reason, its entitled to 
block accounts if they think they are being used by other people.
Santander has said it thinks that there were calls made by both Mrs J and someone 
pretending to be her. Unfortunately, Santander hasnt been able to provide us with all of 
the calls regarding Mrs Js account. However, its provided some. Ive reviewed two of the 
calls that Santander has provided us with. And I agree its likely these are two separate 
people. Of course, I cant know for sure who was using the account. However, the person 
pretending to be Mrs J had access to her passcodes and other information. But wasnt able 
to provide more specific answers to questions such as details on recent transactions. 
Based on this, I dont think Santander was wrong to be concerned that someone other 
than Mrs J was trying to access the account.
Santander has also provided me with evidence that someone was accessing Mrs Js online 
accounts from the UK whilst at similar times using the debit card abroad.
During our dealings with both Mrs J and Miss M, neither has seemed particularly concerned
by reports that someone else has been trying to access the accounts. Taking this into 
account, and having listened to the calls provided by Santander and the calls our 
Investigator had with Miss M, I think it was more likely than not that it was Miss M 
pretending to be her mother and accessing Mrs Js accounts from the UK whilst Mrs J was 
abroad.
I dont doubt Miss M was simply trying to assist Mrs J, and that Mrs J was aware of this 
happening. But this doesnt mean it didnt give Santander cause for concern which would 
warrant blocking Mrs Js account for security purposes. And Santanders account terms 
dont allow for the sharing of security information in this manner, even between family.
In summary, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to block the account to protect 
Mrs Js money. Id also add at this stage that there was always a risk of problems using a 
UK based bank account when moving abroad. They arent designed to be operated abroad 
on a permanent basis. And I think by not making other arrangements, this has contributed 
to the position Mrs J finds herself in.
However, taking all of the above into account, Mrs J is still in the situation where she 
doesnt have access to her money. She hasnt, as far as I am aware, returned to the UK 
and says she doesnt plan to anytime soon. And I do think Santander shouldve taken 
more steps to help her have her accounts unblocked without the need for her to return to 
the UK.So, Im going to uphold this complaint in part as Im going to ask Santander to do 
something further to ensure Mrs J is able to access her account without the need to return 
to the UK.
Mrs J says that Santander has branches in the country she now lives in. Santander says 
that they are a separate business entity and their systems are different. However, Im not 
currently persuaded that it couldnt still verify a customers identification and communicate 
with a UK based Santander branch. If Santander maintains this is the case, it should 
explain why further in response to this provisional decision.
Regardless, what remains the case is that Santander should find a way to allow Mrs J to 
unblock her account without having to return to the UK. Before I issue my final decision, Ill 
consider any other suggestions made by both Santander and Mrs J to unblock Mrs Js 
account which do not involve her having to return to the UK.
Miss M has said compensation should be paid to Mrs J. Shes said Mrs J has had to live 
off credit cards and has missed out on a property purchase because of not having access 
to the funds. For the reasons set out above, I think Mrs J has acted against the terms of 
her account by sharing security information and Santander has been given cause for 
concern.
So, Mrs J does bear some responsibility for what has happened here. But, I also think 
Santander shouldve been more flexible in finding another way to unblock Mrs Js account. 
For that reason, I think that £150 compensation is a fair amount to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Santanders lack of flexibility caused Mrs J.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss M said, in summary:
Her and Mrs J werent concerned that anyone had accessed the account as Mrs J 
still had the debit card for the account in her possession.
£150 wasnt nearly enough compensation for the fact that the account had been 
blocked for so long.
She reiterated complaint points about the joint account and change of address
Santander responded saying:
It wasnt sustainable for Miss M to continue to operate Mrs Js account without formal 
authorisation. So Miss M could either be added to the account, obtain a power of 
attorney for Mrs J or Mrs J should open a new account in the country she is now in.
It maintained it was correct to block the account after Miss M attempted to 
impersonate Mrs J to operate the account.
It agreed it will make an exception to its policy in this situation and verify Mrs Js 
identification to reactivate the account via phone. 
The complaint has been passed back to make to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I came to in my provisional 
decision.Ive explained why I cant consider the complaint about the joint account here  this will need 
to be set up as a separate complaint with Mrs Js husbands consent. Our investigator is in 
the process of arranging this and I wont comment on this matter further. 
Ive still seen no evidence, as set out in my provisional decision, which shows that 
statements were sent to an incorrect address for Mrs Js sole account. So, Im not making 
any award for this.
Im pleased that Santander has agreed to unblock Mrs Js account via the phone. Its 
confirmed that this will be done by a Senior Fraud Manager shortly and I understand theyve 
already been in touch. This will allow Mrs J to access her funds again. And I agree with 
Santander that it may be best if Mrs J were to open an account in the country she is in. UK 
based current accounts are typically not designed to be operated on a long-term basis 
abroad. And its possible problems may occur further down the line. 
Furthermore, Id remind Mrs J and Miss M that whilst Miss M isnt a party to the account, the 
terms and conditions do restrict Mrs J from sharing security information with others and 
allowing others to attempt to operate the account.
Ive thought about what Miss M has said about the level of compensation I suggested. 
However, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think this incident was brought about by 
Mrs J sharing security information for her account and trying to operate it in a way which it 
isnt designed to be operated. This was acting against the terms and conditions of the 
account. Because of this, I remain of the opinion that the lack of access to her funds was, in 
part, down to her own actions and failing to take care of the security of the account.
I do think Santander shouldve been more flexible in the manner in which Mrs J could 
unblock her account. Ive thought about this again, but Ive decided that £150 remains a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation when taking everything into account. 
Putting things right
Santander should contact Mrs J by phone in order to unblock her account. It should also pay 
her £150 for the distress and inconvenience of not being more flexible when it came to 
helping her unblock her account. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman