DRN-4174970
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money handled her balance 
transfer and fraud on her card poorly. She says her complaint wasnt resolved, affecting her 
credit score, and causing her significant distress, inconvenience, and financial loss.
What happened
Mrs P decided to transfer a credit card balance to Virgin Money. She says Virgin Money told 
her in January 2022 that the balance transfer had gone through, but that she didnt receive 
her card. She says she finally received her card in February 2022  after several calls and 
incorrect information from Virgin Money  and activated her online banking straightaway.
Mrs P says she discovered transactions on her card when she activated her online banking. 
She reported these transactions to Virgin Money as fraudulent straightaway. She says she 
was very unhappy that no-one at Virgin Money had mentioned these transactions when 
shed been calling about not having received her card, so she also complained.
Virgin Money accepted that the transactions were fraudulent, but it didnt respond to Mrs Ps 
complaint. Mrs P complained to us in June 2022. She said Virgin Moneys actions had 
affected credit score and caused her significant distress, inconvenience, and financial loss.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ps complaint and recommended that she check her 
credit score. Having done so, and having sent us her credit file, our investigator said that 
they didnt think Virgin Moneys actions had had an impact on Mrs Ps credit score. And they 
recommended that Virgin Money pay Mrs P £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs P was unhappy with our investigators recommendation. She said shed been heavily 
pregnant at the time and that the distress had caused complications in her pregnancy and 
will have a long-term impact on her and her newly born daughter. She asked for an 
ombudsman to look into their complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this file and having spoken to Mrs P, I issued a provisional decision. In that 
provisional decision I said:
I accept that Mrs Ps balance transfer didnt go as smoothly as it should have done. In 
particular, I accept that Mrs P was asked for ID in order to complete the application 
and that this wasnt something shed been asked at the initial stages of the application. 
I also accept that she had to call several times before she finally received her card. Ive 
taken the inconvenience and frustration that these delays would have caused when 
assessing the overall impact of what went wrong in this case on Mrs P. American 
Express appears to have accepted that the balance transfer didnt go as smoothly as it 
should have done.
Both parties appear to agree that a third party made fraudulent transactions on Mrs Ps 
card  ones for which it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold her liable. I can, 
therefore, appreciate that it must have been worrying for Mrs P when she logged onto 
her online banking for the first time to discover that there had already been 
transactions on her card. Mrs P arguably had opportunities to discover these 
transactions earlier  shes told me she received an email on 24 January 2022 saying 
shed gone over her limit. More importantly, however, I agree with her that Virgin 
Money could also have spotted there was an issue earlier given that Mrs P had called 
several times to say shed not received her card. So, I can see why she was angry with 
Virgin Money when she discovered there had been transactions on her card after 
shed activated and logged into her online banking.
Ive spoken to Mrs P, and shes told me that she was pregnant with her second child 
when this all happened. Shes also told me that her pregnancy had been smooth until 
then. And shes told me that the distress Virgin Money caused led to complications in 
her pregnancy and led her to give birth prematurely. Ive explained to Mrs P that wed 
need evidence to show that Virgin Moneys actions  and not the actions of the person 
who used her card fraudulently  caused complications before we could consider 
awarding compensation to reflect that. Mrs P hasnt been unable to get hold of the 
evidence she says will show this to date. So, Ive decided to issue this provisional 
decision and, as long as shes able to send me evidence to that effect by 31 May 
2023, Ill take it into account. In the meantime, Ive considered what award might be 
appropriate based on the evidence on the file.
I then went on to consider the impact on Mrs P and said:
Its clear that it was distressing for Mrs P to discover that there had been fraudulent 
transactions on her card, and the idea of being held liable for them would have been 
worrying too. Im satisfied, however, that Virgin Money refunded the transactions 
quickly and that Mrs P wasnt aware her card had been used fraudulently until she 
went online. In other words, that this distress was short-lived.
It wouldnt be fair to tell Virgin Money to compensate Mrs P for the distress that she 
was caused as a result of being a victim of fraud. That distress was caused by the 
fraudster. But it is fair to tell Virgin Money to compensate Mrs P for any additional 
distress it caused as a result of mistakes, if any, it made when it dealt with her claim.
In this case, I do think Virgin Money made matters worse. Equally, I agree that Mrs P 
could have done more to mitigate. I accept, for example, that she was worried about 
her credit rating, and that this caused her to worry. But I agree with our investigator 
that this was something she could check. And I agree that the credit file Mrs P has 
sent us shows Virgin Money didnt record any adverse information about her.
Overall, taking everything into account, I feel an award of £300 is more appropriate  
in part because Mrs P already had a lot on her plate given that she was near the end 
of her pregnancy, and this had a bigger impact on her as a result. So, thats the award 
Im minded to make, subject to any further comments or evidence I get.
I asked both parties to comment on my provisional decision. Virgin Money said that it was 
happy to pay £300 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs P said shed had to 
request her medical file, and this was taking time. She hasnt updated us since then.Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, my view remains that an award of £300 is the appropriate remedy 
in this case. So, Im going to uphold this complaint on that basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mrs P 
£300 in compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman