DRN-2663815
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Unum Ltd declined a claim he made on his employers group income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mr S benefits from a group income protection policy taken out by his employer. Mr S was 
absent from work after being signed off by his GP in August 2018, and after six months 
made a claim to Unum for his loss of income via his employer in February 2019.
Unum declined his claim. It said he hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity and felt the 
reason Mr S was off work wasnt a medical one. It felt it was a work-related issue, and so 
wasnt something the policy provided cover for.
Mr S disagreed and complained to Unum. He said hed been misdiagnosed earlier in the 
process and he didnt think Unum had taken into account the most recent medical 
assessments which he felt showed the reason he was off work was because of a medical 
condition.
Unum looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt change its decision on his claim. It said it had 
considered the newer medical evidence, but still thought that the medical evidence pointed 
to the main reason Mr S being off work being a non-medical one. Namely it still said the 
reason Mr S was off work was due to work-related issues.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Unum was acting 
fairly by declining Mr Ss claim on the basis that he hadnt met the policy definition of 
incapacitated. She thought this was a reasonable decision based on the medical evidence.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the case 
has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this case which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im thinking of upholding 
Mr Ss complaint. I understand this wont be the answer Unum wants to hear, but Ill explain 
my reasoning below.
This is a delicately balanced case and its clear that both Mr S and Unum feel strongly about 
it. The key point in question is whether I think Mr S meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
And on balance, Im persuaded he does.
Mr Ss employers policy says Mr S is incapacitated if he is:
- Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of
the insured occupation, and
- Not performing any occupation
Its clear that Mr S wasnt performing any occupation, so the point in dispute is whether Mr S 
was unable to perform the substantial duties of his role by reason of illness or injury. Namely 
was the reason hes unable to work a medical issue or a work-related one.
Mr S thinks the reason hes unable to return to work is a medical one. Hes said hes been 
prescribed two types of medication on different doses, had cognitive behavioural therapy 
and been referred to a psychiatrist. Hes said the reason he was off work is due to anxiety 
and depression and also says hes been assessed with having symptoms of complex post-
traumatic stress disorder. All of this is supported in the medical evidence.
Unum think the reason Mr S was absent from work was due to a work-related issue. Its 
pointed to medical reports diagnosing Mr Ss symptoms as work-related stress and has 
noted that throughout the deferred period Mr S was able to perform daily tasks and hobbies, 
although it did acknowledge the frequency of Mr S enjoying his hobbies was decreasing. Its 
said while Mr S was noted as having symptoms of complex post-traumatic stress disorder, 
he wasnt diagnosed with this. And it says many of the symptoms can cross over with stress.
Its said the primary barrier to Mr S returning to work isnt a medical issue, but a work-related 
issue. And its said that while Mr S may have shown he cant return to his place of work, hes 
not shown hes unable to perform his role in its entirety, say, at another company.
Looking at the evidence, there is a lot of merit in Unums reasoning. Throughout the medical 
history Mr S is diagnosed with having work-related stress. And there is evidence that Mr S 
was able to carry out daily tasks. Its clear that the thought of returning to work is very much 
a trigger to the problems Mr S is experiencing. And much of the reports indicate that should 
the work place issues improve, so too will Mr Ss mental health.
As mentioned above, this case is finely balanced. Not one report throughout the deferred 
period definitively shows whether the reason Mr S is off work is due to a medical issue or a 
work-related one. There are parts of the medical history supporting it being a work-related 
issue, and there are parts supporting it being a medical one. But looking at the situation as a 
whole, I think the reason Mr S has been unable to return to work is due to an illness, 
therefore Im persuaded he meets the policy definition of incapacity. I find the evidence 
pointing to this more persuasive than the evidence pointing to him being off work being a 
work-related issue. Although this is a close call.
Its clear that the issues Mr S was experiencing at work have played a huge part in him not 
being able to return to work. But people can deal with work-related issues in many different 
ways and sometimes, they do cause further, medical issues which is what I think is the case 
here.
Here, I think the medical evidence and reports show that Mr Ss troubles at work triggered 
further medical issues such as anxiety and depression. Dr Ds report does clearly explain 
Mr Ss symptoms started since being off work in August 2018 and that he expects them to 
improve should the impasse at work be overcome. But this same report also explains Mr S 
has reported consistent anxiety, trouble sleeping and panic attacks. It also explains Mr S has 
tried counselling and has tried two different types of anti-depressants.
While Mr S has at times been diagnosed with work place stress, hes also been diagnosed 
with a mental health condition throughout the deferred period. Both anxiety and depression 
are noted throughout Mr Ss GP notes and hes noted as not being fit for work throughout 
this time. The evidence shows Mr S becomes anxious about the thought of meeting other people in September 2018 and the medical evidence also shows Mr S was suffering from 
nightmares and flashbacks as noted in both his GP notes and the report from Mr Ss referral 
to Clarendon House. This same report suggests Mr S has biological signs of depression and 
that his symptoms are in line with post-traumatic stress disorder.
As mentioned above, theres no question that Mr Ss issues with work are an important 
factor and likely the trigger. Initially the reports do indicate that should Mr Ss issues at work 
be resolved, his health would likely improve. Mr S was diagnosed with adjustment order 
which typically lasts around six months. At the time the claim was made in February 2019, I 
think its a close call to determine whether the evidence shows Mr S was absent from work 
simply due to work place stress, or whether he was off work because of illness. But on 
balance I am persuaded he was off work due to illness which would have prevented him 
from performing his role. Unum is entitled to review its decision. Its clear that everyone was 
hoping Mr Ss health would improve and he be able to return to work. But as it stands Mr Ss 
health has not improved but has likely worsened. This is evidenced by Dr Rs report in 
January 2020 stating Mr S was significantly disabled with his symptoms with a deterioration 
in his everyday functioning.
Im persuaded on the whole the medical history suggests Mr S was experiencing more than 
mere work place stress, and that he was more likely suffering from a mental health condition 
such as anxiety and depression. And as the medical evidence shows Mr S was unable to 
work, I think he does meet Unums definition of incapacity. It follows that I think that Unum 
should pay his claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above Im thinking of upholding Mr Ss complaint. To put things right 
Id require Unum Ltd to pay Mr Ss claim subject to the policy limits. It should add interest to 
any outstanding benefit payments at the simple rate of 8% per annum from the date the 
benefit payment was due until the date of settlement.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Mr S agreed with my provisional decision and provided a further letter from his GP 
summarising his health since August 2018 and explaining that they deemed Mr S unfit for 
work since being initially signed off in August 2018.
Unum broadly agreed that Mr S met the policy definition on incapacity in January 2020, but 
didnt think this meant that Mr S met the definition of the incapacitated before then. It said it 
didnt think my provisional decision was clear in deciding that either. Its said it thinks that a 
fairer outcome to this complaint would be to reassess the claim from 6 January 2020 (the 
date of Dr Rs report) and if I decide Mr S meets the policy definition of incapacitated in the 
immediate 26 weeks (deferral period) leading up to this date, then it thinks this date,  
January 202 is when it should pay the claim from, not the date Mr S made his claim, in 
February 2019.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing for the findings made in my provisional decision. I understand this will be disappointing for Unum, so Ill explain my reasoning a bit more, 
making comment on the new arguments and evidence its provided.
Ive taken on board Unums response to my provisional decision, and I understand its 
reasoning. Indeed, the outcome its proposing is an outcome I considered reaching before 
reaching the outcome set out in my provisional decision. Its clear that Dr Rs report in 
January 2020 is the clearest notification that Mr S meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
But this doesnt mean he didnt meet it before then.
And as explained in my provisional decision, this decision was a carefully considered, but 
close call.  Theres medical evidence throughout the deferred period of Mr Ss claim which 
supports both Mr S meeting the definition of incapacity, and that he doesnt and that the 
issues are work related. And as mentioned in my provisional decision, Unum is entitled to 
rely on the information it had at the time, but that its also entitled to review that information 
as a whole and change its decision. Im of the opinion that while Mr Ss condition has 
unfortunately deteriorated over time, the medical evidence does support more that he was 
unable to work since August 2018 due to an illness since, not simply because of a work-
related issue.
Taking a step back and looking at the medical evidence as a whole, I think on balance, Mr S 
did meet the policy definition of capacity throughout the deferred period and since. He was 
signed off work and deemed unfit to return and hasnt returned since. It was thought the 
reason he was off work was a workplace issue. But as my provisional decision explains, 
while work was likely an important factor, this triggered further medical issues such as 
anxiety and depression. Therefore, Im satisfied he did meet the policy definition of 
incapacity, and as such Im satisfied Unum should settle Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put things right I require Unum 
Ltd to pay Mr Ss February 2019 claim subject to the policy limits. It should add interest to 
any outstanding benefit payments at the simple rate of 8% per annum from the date the 
benefit payment was due until the date of settlement.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman