DRN-3234302
The complaint
Mr K complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided loans that 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr K took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date opened Date closed Loan 
amountInstalments Monthly 
repayment
1 8/05/2019 8/10/2019 £250.00 18 months £57.14
2 8/10/2019 5/04/2020 £400.00 18 months £91.42
3 5/04/2020 10/11/2020 £560.61 18 months £128.13
Mr K brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In brief summary, Mr K told us that he was an addicted gambler and he felt that it wouldve 
been apparent to Loans 2 Go that the loans were unaffordable for him if proper affordability 
checks had been done. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Loans 2 Go had done anything wrong when it provided loan 1 
but he upheld Mr Ks complaint about loans 2 and 3 and set out directions indicating what he 
thought Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, it said that it had carried out 
proportionate checks before agreeing to lend and it had been entitled to rely on the 
information it had gathered. Loans 2 Go told us that careful affordability assessments had 
been done and it didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly towards Mr K in any way.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr K 
irresponsibly. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the 
loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This 
should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Loans 2 Go was required to carry out an affordability check. The checks had to be 
borrower focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think not just about the business risk to the 
lender but whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr K. Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
Mr K could sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 Go 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr K. 
Loan 1
As far as I can see, Mr K hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided this loan 
 so Im not upholding this part of Mr Ks complaint.   
Loan 2
Loans 2 Go asked Mr K about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Loans 2 Go used an online income checker to verify the minimum monthly pay Mr K would 
need in order to be able to afford the loan  it worked this out at around £892. Loans 2 Go 
seems to have been satisfied this was achievable and I dont think that was an unreasonable 
view. Mr Ks work situation hadnt changed and the information Mr K had declared and 
Loans 2 Go had gathered seemed to support a view that his income comfortably exceeded 
this amount. Hed also managed the repayments on loan 1 without any evident signs of 
financial difficulty.
Taking into account what Mr K had said about his spending as well as what its credit checks 
showed, it calculated that Mr Ks monthly expenditure was approximately £740. It also 
allowed an extra £60 buffer to account for any fluctuations in Mr Ks monthly income or 
expenditure. 
Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr K shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on 
this loan. 
I think its fair to say that Loans 2 Go didnt see anything in its credit checks that a 
responsible lender in this situation would have considered especially worrying. The total 
balance on all Mr Ks accounts in the last month was recorded as £444, which I think was a 
relatively modest amount for someone in Mr Ks circumstances. It was apparent that this 
figure reflected the balances on his credit cards  and that he was close to the credit limit on both those cards. The credit checks showed another loan account open and recorded a 
balance of £857. 
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. Loans 2 
Go saw that Mr K was up to date with payments on his active accounts that were shown and 
there was no adverse information suggesting that he was affected by bankruptcy or in an 
arrangement with his creditors or that there were any active county court judgements.
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to 
lend  or whether, as our adjudicator suggested, it should have prompted Loans 2 Go to do 
more in-depth checks. 
I think this was a finely balanced situation, and Im mindful that I must be impartial and fair to 
both parties. I've taken into account the following:
this was Mr Ks second loan application to Loans 2 Go and the lender didnt have any 
substantial reason at this early stage in the lending relationship to look into things 
further to find out why Mr K might need this loan or obtain proof of his financial 
situation
Mr K was applying for a relatively small top-up loan amount and the costs would be 
just £34 or so a month more than hed paid for loan 1  which he seemed to have 
managed without difficulty
the 18 months term and the low level of monthly repayments compared to Mr Ks 
take home pay 
Mr Ks job situation hadnt changed since he took out loan 1 and although I dont 
have a lot of information about the income verification checks Loans 2 Go did for 
loan 2, I think the lender was reasonably able to assume Mr Ks take home pay was 
comfortably more than the minimum it worked out he needed to afford this loan. And 
I have seen from his bank statement that Mr K was paid more than £2,000 in 
September 2019, which should have been ample for him easily to afford loan 2 
bearing in mind the spending figures he declared and the amount Loans 2 Go saw 
that he was paying to service existing credit commitments on its credit report
the fact that Mr Ks housing costs and expenses like council tax werent things he 
was responsible for paying and the affordability assessment Loans 2 Go did 
suggested the monthly repayments were within his budget and he wasnt over-
stretched financially.
Mr K was fully engaged in the loan application process and he didnt give Loans 2 Go 
any information hinting at any money problems, so it had no reason to suspect he 
had lost control of his gambling spending. 
On balance, I think the checks Loans 2 Go did for loan 2 were broadly speaking 
proportionate in the circumstances. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it gathered (even if 
it was in some respects quite limited) and I think the lending decision it made to provide this 
loan was broadly fair based on the information Loans 2 Go could see in front of it without 
needing to do more in-depth checks. 
So this is why Im not planning on upholding Mr Ks complaint about loan 2.Loan 3
I agree with our adjudicator about this loan and I dont think Loans 2 Go acted fairly when 
Mr  K applied to top up his loan this time. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr K used loan 3 to pay loan 2 early and take out some extra borrowing. And this time 
I think the onus had shifted to Loans 2 Go, as a responsible lender, to enquire more 
closely into Mr Ks finances. 
I say this because he was taking out his third loan when he was just six months or so into his 
second loan term, topping up with some extra borrowing and adding to his overall 
indebtedness. And this was now the second time in just eleven months or so that he had 
done this. Mr K hadnt said why he needed the loan (the loan purpose is recorded as other) 
and I dont think it was clear why he would still need to take out this sort of expensive credit 
or why he appeared to be habitually topping up loans  especially as I dont think Loans 2 
Go knew how Mr K intended to use (any of) the money it loaned. It looked like he hadnt 
made any inroads into paying his credit card debt since he took out loan 1 - he was £1 off 
the credit limit on one card and £3 over the credit limit on his other card suggesting he 
might have been finding it hard to reduce his reliance on using his credit cards. 
And there were other signs that were concerning. Loans 2 Go was able to see that Mr Ks 
search history suggested he had been actively seeking additional credit over the previous 6 
months or so  in other words, since he had taken out loan 2. And, despite what Loans 2 Go 
has said about his payment record, I think our adjudicator was right to flag up the fact that 
the statement of account for loan 2 shows several messages were sent about overdue 
repayments and its credit report shows it reported Mr K was one payment in arrears just a 
couple of months earlier. 
For all these reasons I think Loans 2 Go needed to do further checks to ensure it had a fuller 
understanding of Mr Ks finances before it could be reassured that loan 3 would be 
sustainably affordable. I dont think the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend on this 
occasion were proportionate in these circumstances.
So I've looked at what I think a proportionate check mightve shown had Loans 2 Go looked 
more closely into Mr Ks finances at the time.  
Mr K has provided bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go 
was likely to have found out had it carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check at 
the time. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have required Mr K to produce 
his bank statements at the time  lenders can choose how to undertake proportionate 
checking. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of 
Mr Ks finances at the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go looked in more depth at Mr Ks finances it would likely have seen that 
he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr K was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. 
And it shouldve realised that in these circumstances it couldnt safely be satisfied that loan 3 
would be sustainably affordable for Mr K. So it shouldnt have provided it. For these reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr Ks complaint about loan 3.  
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr K has told me he has no further comments. I have heard nothing further from Loans 2 Go 
and the deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed 
with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr K in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
But I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
when he took out loan 3, because he had the benefit of that lending. 
He has however had to pay interest (and possibly other fees or charges) on lending that 
shouldnt have been provided to him. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given 
loan 3. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr K.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman