DRN-2714563
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Tandem Bank Limited handled a chargeback he requested in 
relation to two transactions.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr T purchased two flights from an airline. The flights were cancelled by 
the airline and Mr T says that the airline provider wouldnt give him a refund. Because of this, 
he got in touch with Tandem to request a chargeback.
Mr T submitted forms to request a chargeback in April 2020  he then got a letter from 
Tandem in June 2020 saying that it hadnt received the forms. Mr T called Tandem after he 
got this letter and they confirmed that they had in fact got the form and told him to ignore the 
letter.
In July 2020, Tandem wrote to Mr T asking for some more information in order to continue 
with the chargeback. It then wrote to him again later the same month requesting this same 
information after it hadnt received everything it needed following the previous letter. Mr T 
says he didnt provide the additional information because he had been told over the phone 
on at least two occasions to ignore these letters.
Because Tandem didnt receive the information it asked for, it didnt continue with the 
chargeback, and declined to refund the cost of the flights to Mr T.
Mr T complained about this. He says he was consistently told to ignore the letters Tandem 
had sent him requesting more information. Tandem responded to Mr Ts complaint to say it 
could see that it had caused some delays in assessing the chargeback  this is from when it 
didnt process the form Mr T initially sent in April 2020. But after this, it had asked Mr T for 
more information in order to assess the chargeback request, but because Mr T didnt provide 
this, it says it fairly declined the chargeback on 11 August 2020. However, Tandem did offer 
to refund Mr T £48.21, the cost of the flights, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T wasnt happy with Tandems response. In order to resolve things, and on top of the 
£48.21 Tandem has already offered, he would like an apology from a senior manager and 
compensation of at least £50.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
while Tandem had caused some delays initially, the reason for the declined chargeback was 
because Mr T didnt provide the information Tandem had asked him for. So he didnt think 
that Tandem had unfairly declined the chargeback  and he thought that the £48.21 Tandem 
had already offered Mr T was fair.
Mr T responded to say that he didnt agree. Mr T says Tandem sent him letters asking for 
further information, and on each occasion Mr T called to check what information it wanted. 
He says that on each call he was told to ignore the letter he got and to wait for the 
chargeback to be approved. He says he was told this 2-3 times.
Because Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
A chargeback is the process used to settle disputes between card issuers and merchants. It 
is the card scheme, that runs and sets the rules for the chargeback scheme. 
Generally, before the card issuer, in this case Tandem, instigates a chargeback request, it 
would normally want to see that the cardholder, Mr T, had tried to resolve the matter with the 
merchant, the airline, first. This is usually a requirement of the card scheme rules  and I 
think this is a fair approach to take given that the cardholder and the merchant can often sort 
things out between them without the need to involve the bank.
Looking at whats happened in this case, I can see that Tandem requested proof from Mr T 
that he had tried to resolve things with the merchant. I can see that it asked for this in two 
separate letters on 6 July 2020 and 23 July 2020.
Mr T did contact Tandem by phone on 7 July 2020 after it sent the first letter. During the call, 
he provided some of the other information Tandem asked for, but not proof he had 
attempted to resolve things with the merchant. The representative could have been clearer 
on the call, in letting Mr T know that it would still need this before it would instigate the 
chargeback. But the representative did let Mr T know that they would contact him again if 
they needed anything more from him. I can see Tandem sent Mr T another letter asking for 
the information on 23 July 2020  so I cant fairly say that Tandem didnt ask for the 
information  or that it wasnt clear in stating what it needed to continue with the chargeback 
request.
Mr T says he was told a few times by Tandems representatives to ignore the letters that it 
had sent to him. So, this is the reason he didnt provide the information. Ive listened to the 
calls to understand what happened. During one call Mr T had with Tandem on 11 June 2020, 
he was told to ignore a recent letter it sent. But this letter was about the initial form Mr T had 
sent to request the chargeback  and not the subsequent letters it sent requesting more 
information. I have listened to the calls after this date, and I cant hear that Mr T was told to 
ignore any further letters. So, I cant agree that Tandem has misled Mr T about what it 
needed.
Ultimately, the reason the charge back was declined was because Mr T didnt provide 
Tandem with evidence to show he had tried to resolve the matter with the airline first. I dont 
think it is unreasonable of Tandem to decline to proceed with the chargeback for this reason. 
Especially given that the email from the airline about the cancellation suggests that it would 
provide a refund for the cost of the flights if this was the option Mr T wanted. As it stands, I 
still havent seen anything to show me that Mr T has provided this information, so it isnt 
clear if Mr T did attempt to resolve things with the airline or not.
I agree that Tandem could have provided a better customer service at times. For example, it 
did cause some delays at the start of the chargeback process when it didnt pass his form on 
to the correct team. And Ive also noted that Tandem could have been clearer about what 
information it needed during a call.All in all, its clear there are some things Tandem could have done better, but I cant agree it 
did anything wrong when it declined to instigate the chargeback. Tandem has agreed to 
refund the costs of the flights as a gesture of goodwill anyway. And I think this is fair way to 
resolve this complaint and so I wont be asking Tandem to do anything more for Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman