DRN-4116700
The complaint
Ms H, through a representative, says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms H took out a 36-month instalment loan for £3,100 from Avant Credit on 11 April 2017. 
The monthly repayments were £145.47 and the total repayable was £5,392.37. 
Ms H says Avant Credit did not complete a good enough affordability assessment. It also 
failed to fully explain the terms of the loan to allow her to make an informed decision. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Hs complaint. She said Avant Credits checks showed it was 
likely Ms H would be unable to sustainably repay the loan.
Avant Credit disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary, this loan 
was for debt consolidation and would allow Ms H to reduce the amount she needed to spend 
each month on her credit commitments and would still leave her with monthly disposable 
income of £123.18. She repaid the loan on time and never missed a payment as it would 
expect given its loan should have placed Ms H in a much-improved financial position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Ms H. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Ms H could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Ms H. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Ms H, and have considered the following questions:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Ms Hs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Ms H before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and her employment status. It checked her declared income using a 
third-party income verification tool. It asked about her residential status and non-
discretionary costs, and it checked her credit file to understand her existing credit 
commitments and her credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was 
debt consolidation. From these checks combined AvantCredit concluded Ms H would be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not persuaded AvantCredit made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
AvantCredit could see that Ms H had £10,956 of unsecured debt when she applied and was 
spending over 60% of her income each month on credit. She had four defaulted accounts, 
and though not very recent they not been settled yet and totaled nearly £3,500. She was 
also in arrears on a utility account, using over 80% of her overdraft limit on her current 
account and 90% of her four credit card limits. She had opened four new accounts in the last 
three months. So there were clear signs Ms Hs finances were under significant pressure 
and in these circumstances, I think it was wrong for AvantCredit to further extend Ms Hs 
overall indebtedness.
I have thought carefully about AvantCredits argument that as the loan was to settle some of 
Ms Hs debts it was financially beneficial for her. But I have several concerns about this: 
AvantCredit did not know, but has assumed, which debts Ms H might clear; she would still 
need to spend a high portion of her income on credit which we know to be an indicator of 
future financial difficulties; it may have provided short-term financial relief assuming she did 
clear short-term high-cost loans but AvantCredit did not know with any certainty this was the 
case - and it was increasing her long-term indebtedness. 
In addition, Ms H was already reliant on an overdraft and AvantCredit did not assume its 
loan would allow her to repay this so it is reasonable to assume she would need to use this 
facility to repay its loan. This means she would in essence be borrowing to repay  something which does not meet the definition of sustainable borrowing that AvantCredit was 
obliged to consider.
In the round, I am not satisfied that AvantCredit got the assurances it needed from its checks 
that Ms H would not suffer some kind of financial harm by taking on this loan. The lender 
argues as Ms H repaid the loan as per her contractual obligations it was it helped her  but it 
does not know how she did this. 
It follows I think AvantCredit was wrong to lend to Ms H.
I cant see any evidence that AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Ms H. She says she wasnt given complete information about the terms of the loan, 
but I find the key information was set out in both the pre-contract credit information and the 
loan agreement that Ms H signed electronically.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Ms H to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been given to her. So she has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things 
right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Ms H repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
As reworking Ms Hs loan account will result in her having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Hs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman