DRN-2499244
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
declined their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S found that a roof panel had come off the roof to their conservatory. So, they 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage. About two weeks later, Lloyds sent a 
contractor to assess the roof. A couple of weeks after that, Lloyds sent another contractor to 
assess the roof. Lloyds then declined the claim. It said it thought the damage was due to 
wear and tear.
So, Mr S and Mrs S complained to Lloyds about its decision and about the second surveyor 
who had visited. When Lloyds replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
offered £150 compensation for the way the claim had been handled, including the visit of 
one of the surveyors and the timing of explaining that the claim had been declined.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, I dont think its in dispute that there were storm conditions around the 
time of the claim. Ive also looked at the weather reports for that period and can see that 
there were storm conditions, so I think the answer to this question is yes.
Looking at the second question, I think a storm could cause the sort of damage that has 
been described.
So, Ive thought about the third question on whether storm conditions were the main cause 
of the damage. Lloyds declined the claim because, based on the surveys, it found that the 
screws holding the roof panel in place were rusty, so the panel was loose, and it said that 
there was no lead at the edge of the roof. Im aware that Mr S and Mrs S have disputed this 
evidence. 
Looking at the evidence provided by Lloyds, I think the photos showed signs of wear and 
tear to the roof structure. Mr S and Mrs S accepted that the screws were rusty but said they 
should have been sent for testing. I wouldnt normally expect items such as screws to be 
sent for testing. It also doesnt seem to be in dispute that the screws were rusty. Lloyds was 
of the view that the rusted screws meant that the panel wasnt as well secured as it should 
have been and that this allowed the wind to get under the panel causing it to detach. I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its surveyors findings to reach this conclusion. 
Mr S and Mrs S have also said that they removed the lead edging from the roof. I have no 
reason to doubt this. But I still think there were issues with the roof that indicated wear and 
tear. 
Im aware that Mr S and Mrs S also thought the surveyors should have carried out a more 
thorough assessment. Ive looked at the surveyors photos and findings and I think that these 
documented the condition of the roof and the reasons why the damage was assessed as 
wear and tear. So, I think the survey was reasonable and gathered sufficient evidence to 
allow a decision to be made about the claim.
Mr S and Mrs S also provided a report from a builder about the condition of the roof. This 
said the roof structure was in good condition and wasnt the cause of the damage.  Mr S and 
Mrs S explained that the report had been prepared many months after the damage to the 
roof happened. Ive thought about this. Photos were taken of the roof structure shortly after 
the damage was found. These showed rust in a number of places on the roof structure. Ive 
also looked at the photos that Mr S sent to Lloyds as part of registering the claim and these 
also showed rust around the edge of the roof structure. So, I think there was evidence from 
around the time of the damage to show that there were issues with the roof and that it wasnt 
in good condition. The builders report doesnt persuade me that the roof was in good 
condition at the time of the damage.
Mr S has also said that he thinks that a wind tunnel effect could have formed in an alley that 
runs along the side of the house, which then caused the roof panels to lift. I can understand 
Mr S thinks this might have happened, particularly based on his professional background. I 
havent seen anything that persuades me this was most likely what happened though. 
However, regardless of that, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were storm 
conditions around the time of the claim. The issue is whether the storm was the main cause 
of the damage. In my view, a well maintained roof should have been able to withstand storm 
conditions and I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decide that wear and tear was the main 
cause of the damage.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its 
surveyors reports and for it to decide that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, 
rather than a storm. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman