DRN-3658133
The complaint
Miss H has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for transactions she didnt 
make.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss H tried to withdraw £20 at a cash machine. She didnt get her card 
returned or the £20 shed tried to withdraw. Shes told us she phoned the cash machine 
owner (which wasnt Barclays) and had it confirmed that her card would be destroyed. It 
wasnt until a few hours later she told Barclays her debit card was missing.
In the meantime at 17:52 £20 was transferred to a new payee using Miss Hs device. From 
18:13 on 20 March 2021, there were two transfers of £1,430 and £1,500 made from Miss Hs 
savings accounts to her current account using a different device. There were then three cash 
machine withdrawals of £280, £100 and £100. There were also two large transactions at two 
different supermarkets of £2,257 and £101.50.
Miss H told Barclays none of these transactions had been her as someone must have been 
able to get hold of her debit card from the cash machine shed used earlier. In line with the 
Payments Services Regulation, Barclays refunded £2,838.50 to Miss H. However within a 
few days they confirmed they didnt believe her story and felt overall shed known what use 
was being made of her card. Barclays told Miss H they intended to close her current and 
three savings accounts.
Miss H felt shed been badly mistreated and had been a victim of fraud. She referred her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Hs debit card alone would be all that was needed to 
arrange internal transfers so felt Barclays was more likely to be right that Miss H knew 
something about what was going on.
Miss H vehemently disagreed with this and has asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Hs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Miss Hs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Miss H have told us.
We have a timeline of events from Barclays which shows when the cash withdrawals were 
made, including the one Miss H made herself. We also have the history of Miss Hs mobile 
banking records. These show how Miss H used her account along with the events on 
20 March 2021.
Miss H told us that she lost her card when using her card to withdraw £20. The records Ive 
seen demonstrate there were no concerns raised with the cash machine even though Miss H 
has suggested this was targeted by fraudsters. Miss H also confirmed to us that nobody was 
standing around when she used the cash machine and nobody else could see the use of her 
PIN.
Notwithstanding what Miss H has said, I dont believe its possible to commit the fraud that 
subsequently happened with the use of Miss Hs debit card and PIN alone. Thats all shes 
said any fraudster would have had. From that they supposedly accessed her mobile 
banking, changed the device being used and made transfers which allowed the subsequent 
use of her debit card. Any unknown third party would have had to have access to additional 
information including log on details for Miss Hs mobile banking. Ive got no explanation for 
how this could have occurred without Miss Hs involvement.
I note Miss H withdrew the funds Barclays gave her in reimbursement rather than make 
transfers back to her two savings accounts, which Id have expected if shed lost out 
originally.
Im aware shes vehemently denied any involvement in this case. But Ive also been able to 
access information about Miss Hs banking history and previous fraud claims along with 
records held on the industry fraud-related database.
Overall I believe this means that I dont believe Miss H has been a victim of fraud by an 
unknown third party. I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Hs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman