DRN-1569266
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about Covea Insurance plc. They arent happy that it 
wouldnt deal with a claim under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a problem with his car in that he contaminated his cars fuel tank by accident. He 
says that when his car was recovered that the breakdown recovery driver made the matter 
worse and failed to recover the car in line with the manufacturers instructions. So he made a 
claim under his car insurance policy for the damage caused.
He was signposted to his insurer by his broker and Covea looked into things for him. It did 
inspect his car but ultimately concluded that it wouldnt pay his claim. This was because his 
policy didnt cover damage caused by breakdowns or mechanical fault. Mr A didnt agree 
with this and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Covea had 
acted unreasonably in declining the claim after Mr and Mrs As car broke down. And that its 
offer of £100 compensation in acknowledgement of its poor service and lack of clear 
communication was fair.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, but I hope my 
explanation will help them understand why.
It isnt disputed that Mr A called for assistance under his breakdown policy as he managed to 
contaminate his fuel supply. He says that the recovery agent made things worse and didnt 
tow his car correctly. While I havent seen sufficient evidence to form an opinion on this, I 
dont think that Covea can be held responsible for the actions of his own breakdown 
recovery company.
I would expect there to have been an insurable event, such as a theft or an accident, for Mr 
A to make a claim under his insurance policy. And his initial problem stems from his own 
error in contaminating the fuel supply which caused a mechanical problem. So, I dont think 
Covea has acted unreasonably in declining his claim. It simply relied on a clause in the 
contract which says it wont cover Loss or damage caused by any mechanical, electrical, 
electronic computer or computer software failures, breakdowns, faults or breakages.
Mr A signed the recovery agents documentation that the car was not considered safe to 
drive and had sustained damage prior to their attendance. And Coveas appointed engineer 
said that the reasons for the breakdown would suggest that an insurance claim would not be relevant. As such, I think it is fair to conclude that Mr As car had mechanical faults that were 
not covered under the policy.
It is of note that Mr A has advanced things with Covea as he was told to claim against it. But 
Mr A has maintained that his own breakdown recovery agent caused damage to his car. 
Indeed, he has suggested that his recovery agents actions amount to vandalism. While I 
dont think this is likely, it is possible they made a mistake. But any responsibility for this 
would sit with the breakdown company, not Covea. 
Finally, I note that Covea has paid £100 compensation for the poor service it provided. I 
dont propose to interfere with this as I think its offer is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman