DRN-2602420
The complaint
Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly increased 
the cost of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C held a buildings and contents insurance policy, which was underwritten by LV. He took 
out his policy in October 2015 and his policy renewed each year.
In September 2020 Mr C received a renewal invitation from LV, which quoted a home 
insurance premium of £683.01. He had paid £614.95 for his policy the previous year and 
was unhappy with the level of increase. 
Mr C said his circumstances hadnt changed from the previous year. So, he couldnt 
understand why the cost of his policy had increased. He thought LV was seeking to take 
advantage of his loyalty and overcharging him. And he contacted LV in order to complain 
about his renewal invitation. But it didnt return his call. 
On 8 October Mr C contacted LV again to discuss his complaint. During this telephone call, 
LV apologised for not returning Mr Cs call in September and, as a resolution of his 
complaint, it wrote off £33.01 from his renewal quote. But it declined to disclose the reasons 
why Mr Cs premium had increased. It said this information was business sensitive. It also 
offered to quote him on a newer policy. But the only alternative policy it was able to find him 
was double the cost of the renewal quote.
On 5 November, LV issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint. It explained that its 
premiums had been correctly calculated in line with its pricing structure. It, again, stated it 
wasnt able to provide the reasons, and calculations, behind his premium increase due to the 
confidentiality of its pricing structure. And it offered to waive its cancellation fee if Mr C 
wanted to shop around and take out an alternative policy.
Being dissatisfied with how LV had dealt with his complaint, Mr C referred it to our service. 
But our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. She explained that it isnt 
uncommon for insurers to increase the premium each year. And she said information about 
how a policy is priced is confidential. So, she didnt think LV had made an error in declining 
to share this with Mr C. She also thought it had acted fairly in writing off £33.01 from his 
premium because it hadnt responded to his complaint at the earliest opportunity. And she 
felt LV had been reasonable in offering to waive its cancellation fee. But Mr C rejected our 
investigators view of his complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether LV treated Mr C fairly 
with regard to how his premium was calculated during the time he was on cover. 
In order to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Id need to satisfy myself that LV unfairly increased the 
cost of his policy. So, Ive taken into account his premium history. Ive also considered 
whether he was able to engage in the renewal process and whether LV caused him financial 
loss as a result of the way it dealt with his policies.
Its clear that Mr C feels that LV has overcharged him for the policies hes held over the 
years. He thinks hes been disadvantaged by auto renewing his policy each year. I 
appreciate why he might think that LV has taken advantage of his loyalty. But I dont think 
that happened here. And while it appears he didnt engage with LV at renewals during the 
time he was insured, Im not persuaded it took advantage of his lack of engagement. Ill 
explain why.
When Mr C took out his policy with LV the sale was conducted on a non-advised basis. This 
means that LV didnt recommend the policy or provide Mr C with any advice as to the 
suitability of the cover he was selecting.
The insurance market is very competitive. Different insurers calculate premiums in different 
ways  their assessment of risk can vary too. And its not uncommon for new policies to 
include significant discounts for new customers. Insurers generally look to recover these 
discounts over a number of years so that they can cover the cost of claims, their overheads 
and also make a profit  which theyre commercially entitled to do. And this could explain 
why Mr C saw increases in his premiums from 2015 onwards.
From 2015 onwards, Mr Cs policy with LV auto-renewed. I can see that his renewal 
invitation advised him to check that the cover it was quoting for was suitable to his 
requirements. It also told him you have been with us for a number of years. You may be 
able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around. It was fair and 
reasonable for LV to include this information within its renewal invitation.
LV has explained that the premium increases between 2015 and 2020 were in line with its 
pricing structure and included changes in inflation and Insurance Premium Tax together with 
an increase which was claim related. I can see that Mr C is unhappy that LV hasnt disclosed 
information about how it calculates its premiums. I appreciate why he wants to see that 
information but its commercially sensitive.  So, I cant ask LV to share its calculations with 
Mr C.
Based on the information LV has provided to our service, Im satisfied it calculated Mr Cs 
premiums as it would for any other customer in his circumstances. Its shown our service 
that, in 2016, the renewal price it quoted fell within the expected premium increase for that 
year. This increase reflected the IPT increase that applied that year. It also recognised the 
impact of an escape of water claim that Mr C had made in March of that year.
In 2017, the renewal price LV quoted Mr C reflected both a further increase in IPT and the 
impact of the claim made the previous year. LV has shown our service that, during 2018, it 
reduced the renewal offer from £670 to just over £600. This reflected a substantial reduction 
of over £150 from the premium the previous year and demonstrates that Mr Cs lack of 
engagement didnt cause him prejudice insofar as the pricing of his policy was concerned.
In 2019, Mr C was invited to renew his premium for a cost of £614.95, which was an 
increase of almost £15 on the previous year. LV has explained that this increase was due to 
a general rate increase in IPT. And its stated that a substantial reduction was still applied through renewal moderation despite Mr Cs failure to engage. Its told our service that the 
same happened in 2020, which was when Mr C renewed his policy for the fifth time.  
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that there were no cheaper policies available 
to Mr C during the time he was on cover with LV. I therefore dont think he was sold more 
expensive policies than were necessary at renewal. It follows that Im not persuaded that LV 
increased the price of his premiums just because he didnt contact it at renewal to try and 
negotiate a more favourable price. 
Ive seen evidence that, when Mr C contacted LV in October 2020, it looked to requote him 
on an alternative insurance policy in efforts to see if it could find a cheaper policy for him. 
However, the first policy declined due to flood risk and the second policy was double the 
price. This satisfies me that LV tried to engage with Mr C about whether it could offer him 
alternative cover that better suited his requirements. And I can see that it wrote off £33.01 
from his premium for that year, which further demonstrates that it was acting fairly.
I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that LV overcharged him or treated him unfairly. Im therefore not 
going to tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr C may wish to note that the regulator of insurance firms is the Financial Conduct 
Authority and he can contact them regarding his concerns about unfair practices in the 
pricing of insurance policies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman