DRN-3948375
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy her storm damage claim has been declined by AA Underwriting Insurance
Company Limited (AA).
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs Ds chimney was damaged during a storm, so she made a claim to
AA, her buildings insurer.
AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage and subsequently declined Mrs Ds claim. They
said that whilst there was a storm, the chimney was in a poor condition and the damage was
the result of wear and tear over time, which isnt covered under Mrs Ds policy. However, AA
offered £200 compensation for the delay in receiving the surveyor report and reaching a
claim decision.
Mrs D was unhappy with her claim being declined and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She said that whilst there were storm
conditions at the time, she was of the view that the chimney was suffering wear and tear,
and that was the dominant cause of damage, rather than the storm. So, she said AA hadnt
acted unfairly by declining Mrs Ds claim.
The investigator also noted that AA had offered £200 for the delay in reaching a claim
decision. She said this amount was reasonable so didnt recommend AA do anything further.
The investigator also mentioned that whilst she noted part of the claim was for damage to
guttering, AA hadnt considered that as part of Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. 
Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Ive considered each question in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
Mrs Ds policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 
48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort 
Scale; b) torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; c) snow to a 
depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours; or d) hail of such intensity that 
it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AA checked weather records for the date of loss, which showed windspeeds 
reaching 74mph. AA accept that storm conditions occurred, our investigator also 
agreed with that. As this point isnt in dispute, I dont need to decide whether there 
was or wasnt a storm.
However, Mrs D says that she believes windspeeds reached around 115mph, so
considerably higher than those speeds determined by AA.
Ive looked at the weather report relied on by AA (and our investigator). I note that the
weather station readings were from was around 14 miles from Mrs Ds property, and 
of importance, around 14 miles inland. Whereas Mrs Ds property is very close to, 
and exposed to, the seafront wind and weather elements (looking at a map  the sea 
is approximately 100m away), and its in an elevated unsheltered position above 
other properties, further exposing the roof and chimneys to the elements.
So whilst 74mph winds are storm conditions in line with the terms of Mrs Ds policy, 
and a storm occurring isnt actually in dispute, on balance, windspeeds could well 
have been more significant as Mrs D alleges, given the location and exposed nature 
of Mrs Ds property.
Therefore, whilst this question is satisfied on its own based on the weather records, I 
think the location of Mrs Ds property vs the weather station is particularly relevant 
when answering questions two and three below.
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
From the images Ive seen, during the storm Mrs Ds chimney has essentially been 
pushed backwards, slightly twisted which has caused it to lean and bricks and mortar 
to come apart. This type of damage could be consistent with storm type damage.
Therefore, on balance, questions one and two above have been satisfied.
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
AA says the storm wasnt the dominant cause of damage. Instead they say the 
chimney was already in a poor condition and suffering from wear and tear over a 
considerable amount of time and the storm highlighted this. Mrs Ds policy excludes:This policy does not insure the following:
1. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
AA says the images provided support their position. However, based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think AA has shown the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of 
damage for several reasons. Ill explain why.
After the loss, AAs surveyor inspected the damage. Their report is at odds with the 
position AA ultimately later reached that there was wear and tear and that was the 
dominant cause. By contrast, the surveyor said:
Summary of External Damage There is damage to the chimney stacks and 
to the guttering on the out building (sic)
The surveyor didnt note any pre-existing issues, and outlined that the damage would 
be covered by the policy:
Any pre-existing or ongoing external buildings defects/issues that are 
not peril related? No
Is the external damage covered by the policy? Yes
And then went on to confirm:
Description of reinstatement repairs The stack have (sic) been damaged 
by the storm winds. A full chimney stack inspection and report will be 
required
The above is the full content of the report. So, it is limited in nature, but does confirm 
the damage was caused by the storm, there were no pre-existing issues, and the 
damage is covered by the policy. The only item which was inconclusive was the 
actual reinstatement works needed  which needed a separate inspection. Therefore, 
the surveyor was satisfied an insured event had occurred, and wasnt due to pre-
existing issues such as wear and tear.
AAs internal notes reflect they had concerns with the limited nature of the report that 
had been completed:
when we did receive it there wasnt sufficient information provided in the 
report and it says the claim is to be covered.This was then referred internally by AA for review, and it was concluded:
looking at the photos provided it appears that chimney is in very poor 
condition damage related to age. 
It appears the sand  cement pointing has failed over a considerable period of 
time, the recent storm conditions have highlighted the lack of maintenance 
resulting in near collapse of the chimney.
Therefore, AA reached a completely different position to the surveyor, based on 
images of the chimney after damage. However, Ive also seen images, and Im not 
persuaded AA has demonstrated its position. I agree the mortar isnt in a brand-new 
condition, but that wouldnt be expected since it has been in place for around ten 
years. The images taken are post loss, and after the chimney had been distorted, 
causing bricks to move, mortar to be displaced and the chimney to lean over  which 
then gave rise to the claim. I think the movement of the chimney has caused much of 
the visible displaced mortar issues.
Given the strength of the winds in the storm, I dont think, on balance, it has been 
shown the chimney only moved due to the condition of it pre-storm. Instead, I think 
its likely a storm of that magnitude could cause the type of damage that has 
occurred here even to a well maintained chimney  taking into account how exposed 
Mrs Ds property is, with the chimney taking the brunt of winds straight from the 
coast.
Furthermore, Mrs D has two chimneys at her property. The second chimney didnt 
suffer the same distortion during the storm. Mrs D has explained that this is due to 
the direction of the wind at the time of loss. The condition of that chimney looks well 
maintained. And I cant conclude the condition of the two chimneys would be vastly 
different pre storm, given they were installed and maintained at the same time. So, I 
think this second chimney gives a fair likelihood of the condition of the damaged 
chimney prior to the storm  and Im persuaded that its reasonably well maintained.
It is also important to note that it wasnt just one of Mrs Ds chimneys which were 
damaged in her area during the storm. A neighbouring property chimney collapsed, 
falling onto Mrs Ds car, writing it off.
Mrs D has also provided maps of the properties in her immediate area (which have 
also been sent to AA), which show many other properties suffered damage at the 
same time. This includes a church spire, a brick garage being flattened, several 
properties with roofs which had come off, chimneys down and a chimney which went 
through a roof. And this was just on Mrs Ds street and immediately adjacent to her. 
There was also further damage to a large number or properties across Mrs Ds town, 
including the uplifting of a static caravan which landed on a nearby house roof.
I think the additional widespread damage to other properties also supports that the 
storm was significant, so on balance, Im persuaded this also supports the dominant 
cause of damage to Mrs Ds chimney was the storm, rather than wear and tear over 
time. The fact that Mrs Ds chimney twisted, rather than collapsing like a number of 
others in the immediate vicinity also supports that her chimney was in a reasonable 
condition, otherwise on balance, I think its likely it would have come down like others 
nearby.Mrs D was going to have her second chimney repointed after AA declined her storm 
damage claim to make sure there were no issues in future storms, and she also 
provided later information that the builder didnt think it needed any maintenance due 
to its condition. So, I dont necessarily think its been shown the second chimney was 
damaged by a one-off event of storm, therefore I dont think AA would be responsible 
for maintenance on that second chimney. But if Mrs D does have further information 
to show that chimney was also damaged, she should submit that to AA to consider 
further.
On balance, Im persuaded the storm was the dominant cause of damage to the 
chimney in question, so I dont think AA acted fairly by declining this part of Mrs Ds 
claim.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill be directly AA to deal with Mrs Ds chimney damage claim in 
line with the remaining terms of her policy (such as the applicable policy excess)  
subject to Mrs D providing evidence of the costs she incurred.
Its also important to note that Mrs D arranged for repairs to be completed, to stop 
further damage and/or her chimney falling and injuring anyone. So, Mrs D has had 
the works completed to the damaged chimney already, which included scaffolding to 
make safe and provide access. 
The policy terms say that where AA pay a cash settlement, they will only pay what it 
would have cost them. However, I dont think AA fairly declined Mrs Ds claim. And 
she had no option but to carry out the repairs to mitigate any further damage. 
Therefore, AA would need to settle at the costs Mrs D incurred in repairing the storm 
damage, rather than what it wouldve cost them if they hadnt declined the claim. 8% 
simple interest would also need to be added from date of payment of the invoice to 
date of settlement.
Some guttering was also damaged during the storm. The surveyor noted this in their 
report. But it doesnt seem like this was considered by AA when it rejected (unfairly in 
my view) the chimney damage claim. However, given the surveyor did inspect this, 
and didnt raise any concerns over the damage, then Im also minded to direct AA to 
deal with the claim for the guttering, in line with the remaining policy terms. 8% 
simple interest would also need to be added to this from date of payment of the 
invoice to date of settlement.
AA previously offered Mrs D £200 compensation for the delay in receiving the 
surveyor report and reaching a claim decision. I dont think the compensation already 
offered for that specific point is unreasonable. However, I dont think the claim 
decision reached was fair or reasonable, and its clear that whilst the storm causing 
damage was distressing for Mrs D, having her claim declined (unfairly) further added 
to that distress. So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill also be directing AA to provide a further £200 compensation 
(taking the total to £400), for the additional distress caused to Mrs D.Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct AA to:
Deal with Mrs Ds chimney damage claim, subject to evidence of costs incurred, and
the remaining policy terms
Deal with the guttering damage claim, subject to evidence of costs incurred, and the
remaining policy terms
Add 8% simple interest from date of payment of the invoice for the chimney and
gutter repairs to date of settlement
Pay a further £200 compensation (taking the total compensation to £400)
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D responded agreeing with the provisional decision. She said she wouldnt be pursuing 
the guttering part of her claim as she had other works completed at the same time, and the 
guttering wasnt itemised separately in the total bill at the time.
AA responded but they didnt agree. They said they dont dispute there were storm 
conditions which had potential to damage the chimney. But they say if the chimney was in a 
good state of repair, then damage would have been limited, or not occurred at all.
They also said that the attending surveyor recommended a full chimney inspection and 
report was required. AA said this was then completed by their in-house experienced, and 
qualified, surveyor.
AA maintained that the chimney was damaged as a result of wear and tear prior to the 
storm, and they say the images support that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the initial conclusions I came to, and the responses to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
I outlined in my provisional decision why I was minded to conclude, on balance, that the 
storm was the dominant cause of damage to Mrs Ds chimney, and therefore that AA should 
deal with Mrs Ds claim. Nothing that has been provided by either party in response to my 
provisional decision has changed my view of that.
The surveyor who inspected the chimney was satisfied the chimney was damaged by the 
storm and the policy should cover it. And they also noted on their report there were no pre-
existing issues or defects with it. The only thing they didnt comment on was what specific 
repairs would be required. The surveyor at the time also said a full chimney stack inspection and report would be 
required. Whilst AA has said that their in-house surveyor then carried out an inspection and 
report, from what has been provided, this was a desktop review of the same information and 
images that were already provided  including from the surveyor who already inspected it 
and was satisfied it was storm damage which should be covered. I dont consider this a full 
inspection or report which is more persuasive in demonstrating wear and tear, as it was 
based on the same information, but at odds with the original surveyors (who actually looked 
at the chimney) conclusions.
I agree the mortar wasnt in a brand new condition, but that wouldnt be expected given it 
has been in place several years. And, as I said in my provisional decision, I think much of 
the visible displaced mortar on the damaged chimney was caused by it distorting and 
twisting as a result of the storm.
The images AA has provided in response to my provisional decision were already 
considered when I reached it, so they have already been taken into account. But to add, one 
was of the chimney post damage, after it had been twisted and distorted, and during initial 
works by Mrs Ds contractors. So, I dont think this is persuasive in supporting AAs position 
of wear and tear pre-storm.
The second image is of the other chimney not being claimed for by Mrs D. Im still minded to 
conclude this gives an indication of the likely condition of the damaged chimney pre-storm. 
Mrs D sent more recent photos to this service of that chimney, and explained that her 
contractor said no further maintenance was required, and no additional damage has been 
caused, well over a year after the storm which damaged the other chimney. This further 
supports that they were both reasonably well maintained prior to the storm. And in any 
event, this isnt the chimney which is the subject of the claim, and I said AA wouldnt be 
responsible for any routine maintenance required to it. 
Furthermore, the damaged chimney remained upright, albeit twisted and distorted, after the 
storm. As I outlined in my provisional decision, there was extensive damage to properties in 
the immediate area. This included Mrs Ds car being written off by debris from a 
neighbouring property landing on it during the storm. This further demonstrates that the 
weather was severe in the immediate vicinity. And if the chimney was in a poor condition like 
AA alleges, then on balance, it likely would have collapsed like others immediately nearby 
did. But it didnt, which further supports, on balance, it was in a reasonable condition prior to 
the storm.
So, with the above and my provisional decision in mind, Im persuaded the storm was the 
dominant cause of damage to the chimney in question, so I dont think AA acted fairly by 
declining Mrs Ds claim. Therefore, AA need to deal with Mrs Ds chimney damage claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms  such as the excess  subject to Mrs D providing 
evidence of the costs incurred.
As I also outlined in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons, this should be at the 
cost Mrs D incurred (rather than restricting costs to that which AA would have incurred if they 
hadnt declined the claim). 8% simple interest also needs to be added from date of payment 
of the invoice to date of settlement.
AA also need to increase the compensation from £200 already offered to £400 (total) for the 
same reasons outlined in my provisional decision.Furthermore, in my provisional decision, I said AA also need to deal with Mrs Ds guttering 
claim, subject to evidence of costs incurred and the remaining policy terms  with 8% simple 
interest added. Mrs D said in response to the provisional decision that she didnt intend to 
pursue this part of her claim as she didnt have a separate invoice for this.
However, as Im satisfied this should be dealt with by AA under the policy cover (for the 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision), subject to the remaining terms, Im still going to 
direct AA to deal with it, subject to Mrs D providing evidence of the costs incurred. Itll be for 
Mrs D to decide if she wishes to retrospectively obtain further evidence of the costs incurred 
from her contractor to present to AA, or if she still decides not to pursue this part of her 
claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Deal with Mrs Ds chimney damage claim, subject to evidence of costs incurred, and
the remaining policy terms
Deal with the guttering damage claim, subject to evidence of costs incurred, and the
remaining policy terms  if Mrs D wishes to proceed with it
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment of the invoice for the chimney and
gutter repairs to date of settlement
Pay a further £200 compensation (taking the total compensation to £400)
*If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman