DRN-1311849
 
The complaint
Mr L says that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Privilege, (UKI) mis-sold him a car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2016, Mr L took out a car insurance policy online. In 2019, he made a claim for a lost 
car key but UKI declined his claim and said Mr Ls policy didnt cover him for lost keys.
Mr L was unhappy with UKIs decision to not pay his claim and, because of this, he feels the 
policy was mis-sold to him. In particular, he makes the following points:
If lost key cover wasnt included in his insurance policy, this shouldve been made 
clear at the time of sale.
The only time he received any policy documents was when he initially bought the 
policy in 2016, even though it was renewed annually.
Each renewal since 2016 was a separate and new purchase.
Given that he received no further information on each renewal, the only place he 
could view information about his car insurance policy was the sample policy 
document on UKIs website, which Mr L says includes lost key cover and sent us a 
screen shot of the sample to show this. So, he thought this was the policy he was 
buying on renewal and he had no reason to think differently.
He wasnt given enough information to make an informed decision about whether he 
wanted to keep the policy at each renewal.
 
UKI didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. It said the policy booklet from 2016 
clearly outlined what was covered regarding car keys. This didnt include lost key cover. So, 
it didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr L brought his complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. In 
summary, he thought UKI had given Mr L enough information to decide whether the policy 
was suitable for him when he first took it out in 2016. He also thought that UKIs decision to 
only provide information about substantial changes at each renewal wasnt unfair either. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator and repeated his earlier points. As an agreement hasnt 
been reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons why.
In 2016, UKI sold Mr L his policy online on a non-advised basis. This means it had a 
responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr L could 
decide if it was suitable for him. Mr L was sent a policy document, as well as various other 
information about his policy, shortly after the sale. Page 11 of the policy document says:
          If your car keys are stolen, we will pay the cost of replacing the: 
           affected locks;
           lock transmitter and central locking interface;
           affected parts of the alarm and/or immobiliser.
         If it can be established to our reasonable satisfaction that the identity or garaging          
       address of your car is known to any person who is in possession of your keys.
I think the policy document was clear about what is covered in relation to car keys and this 
doesnt include lost key cover. So, considering this, I think UKI did enough at the time of sale 
in 2016 to give Mr L enough information to make an informed decision about whether he 
wanted to buy the policy.
Mr L said that he didnt receive any information about his policy when he renewed it each 
year. He has said that a renewal of a policy is essentially a new sale, and so UKI should 
have provided policy documents each time the policy was renewed. UKI has told us that it 
would only send out policy documents on renewal if there was a change in the terms of the 
policy. And I think this is a fair approach. UKI wasnt required to send Mr L new documents 
each time he renewed. It was obliged to notify him if, upon renewal, the product was 
substantially different to what he originally had. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr L 
was told the policy had been changed to include lost key cover at any point. Given that the 
product Mr L renewed each year wasnt substantially different to what he bought in 2016 in 
relation to lost key cover, I dont think UKI needed to send him new policy documents at 
each renewal.
I note that Mr L says he looked for his policy document online when he wasnt sent any at 
renewal. And, when he couldnt find it, he relied on the sample policy document on UKIs 
website which he said includes lost key cover. But, if Mr L wasnt able to find his specific 
policy document online, I think its reasonable to have expected him to contact UKI to ask for 
this. I say this especially as UKI says he was sent a renewal invitation each year and had to 
phone to renew the policy and also got in touch with UKI to make some amendments to the 
policy throughout the time he had it. Even so, I dont think it was reasonable for him to rely 
on a sample document on the website and assume that his policy had changed with 
additional cover being provided under it. 
In summary, I think Mr L was given enough clear information to make an informed decision 
about whether he wanted the policy in 2016 and nothing substantially changed about 
whether lost key cover was included on each renewal. So, I dont think UKI has done 
anything wrong here. It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Ls complaint that the policy was 
mis-sold to him.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman