DRN-3242849
The complaint
Mr K complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (APS) and 
the service they have provided after his account fell into arrears.
What happened
In late 2015, Mr K successfully applied for a credit card account with APS. But shortly after 
the account was opened, Mr K began to miss his minimum monthly repayments. This led to 
APS issuing a default notice to Mr K in September 2016, with the account being defaulted 
two months later in November. 
Mr K was unhappy about this, so he raised his first complaint in 2018. Mr K didnt think APS 
decision to approve the credit card was responsible. Nor did he think he gave APS his 
permission to carry out a credit search on his behalf.
APS responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly when 
approving Mr Ks application. And they thought the information reported to Mr Ks credit file 
was fair. So, they didnt offer to do anything more. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this. And he raised another complaint on 24 October 2019. In this 
complaint, Mr K explained he was unhappy that APS had placed a default on his credit file 
without providing him with notice of this. And he was unhappy that APS had failed to provide 
him with a copy of the application form he signed as he thought the account had been 
opened fraudulently. So, he wanted the default to be removed and to be compensated for 
the upset hed been caused.
APS responded and again didnt uphold the complaint. They explained a signed application 
form wasnt available as the account was opened online. But they explained a copy of the 
credit agreement was sent to him when the account was opened. APS explained if Mr K felt 
the account was opened fraudulently, he should contact Action Fraud to pursue this further. 
APS also explained a default notice was sent to Mr K in September 2016. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
An Ombudsman issued a decision to Mr K on 8 March 2021, explaining any of the issues 
raised in 2018 fell outside of our time limits. So, they explained our service would only be 
considering the complaints Mr K raised in his second complaint in October 2019.
Our investigator looked into the complaint on this basis and didnt uphold it. They explained 
any of Mr Ks concerns surrounding the sharing of his data would need to be raised with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO), who regulate data within the UK. And they 
commented on Mr Ks concerns about the sale of his debt, which occurred in January 2020. 
They explained any issues Mr K had with the third-party company who took over the debt, 
who Ill refer to as B, would be the responsibility of B and not APS. And they didnt think 
APS did anything wrong by allowing B to contact Mr K to notify him of the sale. So, they 
didnt think APS needed to do anything more.
Mr K was unhappy with the investigation conducted by this investigator. And Mr Ks 
complaint was passed to another investigator to re-investigate. And having done so, they 
also didnt uphold the complaint. They re-iterated Mr Ks ability to contact the ICO about his 
complaints relating to his data. And they explained any accusations of fraud would need to 
be directed to Action Fraud, rather than our service. 
They reiterated that Mr Ks complaint about the conduct of B would need to be raised with B 
separately. And they thought it was Bs responsibility to contact Mr K to make him aware of 
their involvement. Finally, they explained theyd seen evidence to show APS sent Mr K a 
default notice in 2016. So, they didnt think they could say the default was applied unfairly. 
Because of this, they didnt think APS needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He was unhappy that APS sold his debt around the time our service 
became involved and he thought this showed APS attempted to hamper our services 
investigation. He thought APS had failed to handle matters professionally and honestly and 
felt he should be compensated for this. He also questioned whether the default notice was 
genuine, as he maintained he hadnt received it. 
Our investigator responded explaining we were unable to comment on why APS sold the 
debt in 2020. But they explained APS were entitled to do so and hadnt done anything wrong 
by taking that decision. And they explained theyd seen nothing to suggest the default notice 
wasnt a genuine copy. Mr K remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I think its clear Mr K 
has significant concerns about the account APS provided, and the way it was managed after 
he fell into arrears. I understand his credit file has been impacted and I can appreciate why 
Mr K would be unhappy about this as it may impact his ability to obtain credit in the future.
But before I explain how Ive reached my decision; I think itd be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider.
Our service has already issued a decision explaining were only able to consider the 
complaints Mr K raised that APS addressed in their response sent at the end of 2019. So, 
any issues they addressed in 2018, including the affordability of the account and their 
decision to lend, havent been considered as part of my decision.
Mr K has also raised concerns about the way his data was handled, and what information 
was shared between APS and a credit reference agency. As these concerns relate to the 
handling of his data, they would need to be directed to the ICO, who regulate data protection 
within the UK. Unfortunately, its not something our service is able to consider or comment 
upon.
Mr K has also suggested the account was set up fraudulently, without his knowledge. As Ive 
already explained, any issues surrounding the initial application falls outside of our jurisdiction. But even so, any allegations of fraudulent activity is a criminal matter and would 
need to be treated as such. So, these concerns should be directed towards Action Fraud 
and again, havent been included within my decision.
Ive seen Mr K is also unhappy with the conduct of B after they were sold his debt. As B are 
an independent, third party company separate to APS, any complaint about their conduct 
would need to be raised with them directly. Im aware Mr K has done this, and our service 
has a separate complaint open that will investigate the actions of B. So, I wont be 
discussing this further within the decision.
So, I now turn to the complaints Ive been able to consider. Mr K has raised concerns about 
the default APS placed on his account, saying he didnt receive a default notice. But APS 
have said a notice was issued in September 2016 and theyve provided me with a copy of 
this. And I can see the letter was addressed to the same address we hold on our system for 
Mr K. So, while I dont dispute Mr Ks testimony that it wasnt received, Im satisfied it was 
issued in September and sent to the correct address and that it what Id expect APS to do. I 
dont think it would be fair for me to hold APS responsible for Mr Ks failure to receive this, as 
I think this was out of their control.
Im aware Mr K has suggested this letter may have been generated more recently in order to 
support APS complaint response but Im unable to say this is the case. For me to agree with 
this, I would be agreeing that APS have acted fraudulently. And this is something Im unable 
to do nor is it something Ive seen any evidence to support. When considering evidence 
provided by both parties, our service assumes the date of this evidence is correct and 
provided honestly. So, this is what Ive done on this occasion.
In this letter, it explains the outstanding balance would need to be cleared by November, or 
the account would be defaulted. And I can see from Mr Ks credit file that the default was 
placed in line with the advice provided within the notice. Mr K has said the default didnt 
show on his credit file until some years later. But Ive seen Mr Ks credit file and I can see the 
default is recorded on his credit file as being placed in November 2016. So, Im satisfied the 
information reported to Mr Ks credit file is an accurate representation of the way the account 
was managed. So, Im unable to say APS have done anything wrong here.
And despite Mr K not raising this issue in his complaint, I can see our investigator also 
considered his complaint about the sale of his debt to B. And I can see APS entered into 
discussion with Mr K about this, so its something Ive thought about. Mr K is unhappy APS 
didnt make him aware of their decision to sell his debt to B beforehand. While APS have 
said this is not something they do as part of their process and instead they allow B to contact 
the customer.
Ive first thought about whether APS were fair to sell the debt. Im aware Mr K hadnt made 
payments to APS for a period of time, and this is why they took the decision to sell his debt 
on. While Mr K thinks the real reason is because of our services involvement, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this is the case. And even if it was, selling the debt would have no impact 
on our services involvement. So, I cant say that APS have acted dishonestly or unfairly 
here, as they have the right to manage and transfer Mr Ks account as they wish.
And while I do think the ideal situation wouldve been for APS to notify Mr K of their intention 
to sell his debt, I dont think this means theyve done anything wrong that warrants them 
compensating him for this. I think Mr K wouldve been reasonably aware he had an 
outstanding debt with APS. So, when B contacted him about this, I think Mr K wouldve had 
a reasonable awareness of what their contact referred to and I dont think this contact 
shouldve impacted Mr K negatively in a way that means an award should be made. While I 
understand Mr K has been left unhappy with the conduct of B, Ive already explained APS arent responsible for this. So, I dont think APS need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt provide 
him with the compensation he feels he should be paid for the level of service he feels hes 
received. But for me to say APS should compensate Mr K, or direct them to alter his credit 
file, Id need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And while I do think there has 
been a breakdown in relationship between APS and Mr K, I dont think this means that APS 
have made a mistake and so, I dont think APS need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman