DRN-3818809
The complaint
Mr B says KW Wealth Planning Limited (KW) caused delays in the transfer of his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), in cash, from Xafinity (X) to Interactive Investors (II). 
He says after his instruction of 13 November 2020 the liquidations/transfers were not 
completed until 18 January 2021, and this caused him a financial loss in terms of 
reinvestments in the II SIPP. He seeks compensation and he says KW also failed to provide 
him with support during the process.
[All dates and months mentioned are in 2020 unless otherwise stated.]
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 19 October 2022. In it, I provisionally found as 
follows:
KW concedes that the migration of its business to a new custodian at the time of     
Mr Bs instruction caused the delays in executing the instructed liquidations. Its 
communications with him at the time confirm the same and available evidence does 
that too. Therefore, there it is agreed and settled that KW is liable for the delayed 
liquidations. 
There is also evidence from Mr Bs complaint submissions that there were problems 
in the transfer process, specifically during the partial transfers, which were remote to 
KW and which, he alleges, were caused by II. He has referred to his pursuit of a 
separate complaint in this respect. It is also his evidence that he viewed the partial 
transfers positively in the sense that they helped to reduce his losses, but he says (or 
suggests) they would have been unnecessary altogether had he known the 
liquidations would be delayed. He says he would have either sought an opportunity to 
liquidate the X SIPP in one day before initiating the transfer or he would have 
transferred the SIPP in specie. 
In any event, the point I observe in this respect is that the case against KW remains 
limited to the delays in executing the liquidations and the direct consequences of 
that. It does not extend to overall responsibility for the transfer (as a whole). It must 
be noted that KW was the Discretionary Investment Manager for the X SIPPs 
portfolio, so its responsibility in the process was defined by this role and was 
essentially limited to executing the investment liquidations  then X was the ceding 
SIPP scheme and II was the receiving SIPP scheme and both retained their 
respective responsibilities in the transfer process.
Based on KWs acceptance of responsibility for the delayed liquidations it confirms  
and it is agreed between the parties (based on evidence and for the reasons I 
summarized in the previous section)  that, but for the delays, the ETF holdings in 
the X SIPP would have been liquidated on 13 November 2020 and the fund holdings 
in the SIPP would have been liquidated on 16 November 2020. KW has calculated 
that the total value that would have been generated in the SIPP from the liquidations 
executed on these dates would have been £483,597.98. Available evidence appears 
to support this, and I have not seen a dispute from Mr B about this. If he disagrees 
with this amount he is invited to comment  with supporting evidence  in response 
to this PD. The same applies to the actual total value that was eventually generated 
in the SIPP at the conclusion of the liquidations. As stated in the previous section, 
this amount was £489,922.20, available evidence supports it and if Mr B disagrees 
he is invited to comment with supporting evidence. For the present purpose in this 
PD, the conclusion that follows is that Mr B incurred no loss of liquidation value as a 
result of the liquidation delays, instead he gained (in terms of liquidation value) from 
the delays. This aspect of his case is therefore settled and need not be considered 
further. 
In a case like Mr Bs, liquidation value(s) is one of the two areas in which a financial 
loss could have occurred. The other area is that of the post-transfer reinvestments, 
which appears to be the only matter that remains in dispute, and which I focus upon 
below.  
Compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset he was caused by the delayed 
executions also appears to have been settled. Both he and KW appear to have 
agreed with the £200 recommended by the investigator and I too consider it a fair 
amount to award in the circumstances of the case  those circumstances including, 
especially, evidence of KW reducing the impact of the delays by maintaining 
communications with him, explaining matters within those communications, readily 
covering ancillary costs that resulted from the delays and, as I find below, proposing 
a reasonably timely and viable form of mitigation for Mr B. If I am wrong in concluding 
that Mr B agrees with the £200 award, he is invited to say so in response to this PD 
and to make his case if he seeks a higher award.
My views on the allegation of lack of support from KW are mainly that it is not the focus of  
Mr Bs complaint and that it is an allegation that conflicts with evidence of his gratitude for 
support from KW. KW included this point in its response to his complaint and I consider it a 
credible one. There is evidence of two emails from him to KW in December (the first around 
the middle of the month and the second towards its end) in which he thanked KW for being 
extremely helpful and proactive in the liquidation/transfer matter and for all the help it had 
given him in the preceding weeks. I appreciate the matter was yet to conclude at the time, 
but it concluded relatively shortly thereafter with the final partial transfer on 18 January 2021 
so, on balance, I consider this to be reasonably persuasive evidence that KW supported Mr 
B in the way that he wanted and appreciated. Furthermore, as I mentioned above and as the 
investigator noted, KWs role in the transfer was mainly to execute the liquidations, so there 
was a limit to how much it could help in the other aspects of the transfer process.
As the investigator repeatedly explained, consideration of any financial loss in the post-
transfer reinvestments  because of the liquidation delays  must be addressed in addition 
to any financial loss in the liquidation values. KW says a claim for this has been defeated by 
Mr Bs failure to mitigate, when and where he should have. My provisional views are that   
Mr B altered the chain of KWs liability for reinvestment loss by not undertaking its proposal 
of 1 December 2020 and that consideration of such loss must include this factor.
Mitigation is mainly about taking action that reduces the severity or seriousness of an 
occurrence. In this context, the ideal of a flawless and timely full SIPP liquidation (and then 
transfer) that Mr B wanted/expected at the outset becomes arguably irrelevant. Faced with 
the delays caused by KWs migration activities, such an experience was not happening and 
was no longer possible. If and where the same ideal extended to timely pre-planned 
reinvestments thereafter, that too was no longer possible because of the delays. A duty upon 
Mr B to mitigate therefore arose at the time. That required him to act, within reason and where possible, to reduce the impact from the delays on the post-transfer reinvestments he 
planned to make.
At best, KWs email to Mr B of 1 December initiated and offered him a precise and practical 
form of mitigation, which it had the power to execute for him  and, at least, it reminded him 
of the need to consider mitigation. The proposal was therefore feasible and, for the reasons I 
address below, it was also reasonable. 
Available evidence is that between around £130,000 and around £200,000 in cash was 
ready at the time and could have been used, in the proposed execution only account, to 
make some of the planned reinvestments that he had specified in his email of 29 November. 
There is also evidence that, beyond matching some of those planned reinvestments, further 
investments could also have been made in assets that were either broadly comparable to 
other planned reinvestments or assets that provided an interim return to the market pending 
subsequent liquidations and reinvestment when more of the assets he pre-planned to 
reinvest in became available (post migration). The next step would have been to transfer 
such reinvestments in specie to the II SIPP when the liquidations were concluded, and this 
too was viable. Mr B declined the proposal in his response on the same date (1 December).
If Mr B argues that such steps could have generated additional transaction costs, I am 
mindful that KW had already set a precedent for wilfully covering ancillary costs resulting 
from its delays. If such additional costs arose, it is more likely (than not) that KW would have 
also offered to cover any such additional transaction costs arising from the execution only 
based proposal it offered him (including any additional costs arising from in specie transfers 
of reinvestments in the execution only account). KW was consistent and determined in its 
effort to avoid any financial disadvantages to Mr B so I consider it safe to find that its 
approach would have extended this far.
I note from his response of 1 December that Mr B also considered the proposal unattractive 
because of additional effort and work he anticipated and said he could not afford to give at 
the time. However, I consider it reasonably clear from the contents of the proposal that his 
consent, in the main, was what was required (and was what KW asked for in concluding the 
proposal), so I am persuaded that the bulk of the arrangements (work and effort) would have 
been undertaken by KW, not by Mr B. If he argues that the proposal did not completely 
resolve the matter, I agree. However, it is also his argument that he would have made his 
pre-planned reinvestments earlier, but for the delays, so it stands to reason that when  on 1 
December  he had the opportunity to use a significant amount of his SIPPs liquidated value 
to make some of those pre-planned reinvestments (and, in addition, interim reinvestments) 
he ought reasonably to have used that opportunity. 
Mr B did not use the opportunity. He declined it, seemingly without even exploring it first. It 
could be argued that such conduct calls into question his entire claim that he would have 
made reinvestments earlier than he did if there had been no liquidation delays. If this claim 
cannot be established there will be no basis to consider financial loss in the post-transfer 
reinvestments. The implication would be that the liquidation delays were inconsequential to 
his reinvestments. Based on Mr Bs failure to mitigate through the 1 December proposal, this 
could be a potentially fair conclusion.
However, a benefit from this decision being a PD is that Mr B retains a chance to argue his 
case further. I invite him to do so in response to the provisional findings above, and the 
potentially fair conclusion I have referred to. The same invitation applies to KW, if it wishes to 
add anything to its previous submissions or in response to the findings above.
To avoid a delay in concluding a final decision in this case, I set out below the potential 
outcomes for my final decision. Both parties are invited to consider and comment upon them too, in their responses to this PD. This is important, as it is likely that a final decision will be 
issued without further opportunity to make such comments.
If, after considering and addressing all comments on the PD, I am persuaded by the 
aforementioned potentially fair conclusion, my final decision will be to award Mr B 
£200 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the delayed liquidations and nothing 
for financial loss (because there was no such loss in terms of the X SIPPs portfolios 
liquidation value and because of a lack of evidence to find such loss in terms of the 
reinvestments).
If, after considering and addressing all comments on the PD, I am persuaded that   
Mr B did not fail to mitigate and that the planned reinvestments would probably have 
been made earlier, but for the liquidation delays, my final decision will be to award  
him £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him in the matter and to award him 
redress for financial loss in line with the redress findings presented by the 
investigator (for all the same reasons he set out). Both parties are already aware of 
the investigators redress findings.
If, after considering and addressing all comments on the PD, I retain the conclusion 
that Mr B failed to mitigate from 1 December 2020, but because other liquidations 
(and liquidation proceeds) continued to be delayed thereafter (until the final partial 
transfer on 18 January 2021) I find that there are grounds to award redress for those 
proceeds (only) and I find that they would have been reinvested earlier but for the 
continuing delays, I will award Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him in 
the matter, I will award him nothing for financial loss in the X SIPPs portfolios 
liquidation value (because no such loss exists) and I will award him redress for 
financial loss in the post-transfer reinvestments based on the following approach  
oAvailable evidence is that, without the liquidation delays, the X SIPP would 
have been fully liquidated by 23 November at a total value of £483,597.98. 
For the sake of completion, there is also evidence to say this amount would 
have been with X on this date ready for transfer to II; that, in reality, X took up 
to four working days to complete its transfers to II so it probably would have 
taken the same length of time, up to 27 November, to complete the transfer of 
this amount; and that this amount would then have been available for 
reinvestment in the II SIPP on the next working day  on 30 November.
o£483,597.98 will be A.
oOnly the total unrealized/unliquidated value in the X SIPP as of 1 December 
will be the subject of redress. The total value that had already been liquidated 
as of this date will be excluded because Mr Bs failure to mitigate in this 
respect closed KWs liability for this aspect. The total value already liquidated 
in the X SIPP as of 1 December will be B.
oThe basis for redress (C) will be A minus B.
oThe start date for the calculation of redress will be the first date after 1 
December on which Mr B made reinvestment(s) in the II SIPP. Despite what I 
set out (for the sake of completion) in the first bullet point above, I will not 
consider 30 November as a fair start date because his failure to take action 
towards mitigation the day after (on 1 December) conflicts with the notion that 
he would have reinvested at the time. However, on balance, his first actual 
reinvestment(s) thereafter provides a broadly reasonable date on which it can be found that he would have reinvested all of C but for the liquidation delays 
after 1 December. Available evidence is that the first partial transfer of 
liquidated funds (a total of £318,500) to II happened on 14 December, and his 
first actual reinvestment(s) thereafter (so, also after 1 December) appears to 
have been on 18 December, but I will provide that the exact date  the start 
date  is confirmed with evidence.
oI will order KW to calculate how all the amounts actually liquidated and 
transferred after 1 December have performed up to the date of my final 
decision. I will order Mr B to provide KW with all information and 
documentation it reasonably needs, and does not already have, in order to 
conduct this calculation. The actual reinvestments made with these amounts 
will collectively be the benchmark and the result of this calculation will be the 
actual value.
oI will order KW to calculate how C would have performed if invested in line 
with the benchmark from the start date to the date of my final decision. The 
result of this calculation will be the fair value.
oIf the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation will be due 
to Mr B. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, the difference will be 
the total compensation that must be paid to Mr B.
oI will order that KW pay any resulting compensation into Mr Bs SIPP, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest; that 
the payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief; 
that the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into his SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; that if the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid 
directly to him; that had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have 
provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid; that 
the notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation).
oI will order KW to provide Mr B with a calculation of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
oI will also give the following notice  Where I uphold a complaint, I can make 
a money award requiring a financial business to pay compensation of up to 
£150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on when 
the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus 
any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the 
compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. 
Payment of such balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not 
binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a complainant can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant may 
therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect 
before deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Mr Bs case, the 
complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the 
complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
For the sake of transparency, and pending comments from the parties, I am provisionally, 
and presently, inclined towards the third outcome above.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. KW said it had nothing to add to its 
previous submissions. Mr B mainly said as follows:
KWs overall service went beyond its discretionary management of his SIPP. It also 
provided him with an advisory service and, in this respect, it ought to have overseen 
the transfer to ensure it happened smoothly. Its bad service, in the same respect, 
was the subject of a separate complaint he made, which has settled. However, this 
wider context should not be lost in my considerations.
He does not agree with the £200 award proposed by the investigator for trouble and 
upset. The devaluation of his pension, partly caused by the transfer issue, has meant 
a detrimental change to his retirement plans. This has caused added trouble and 
upset that should be compensated for.
The end date for calculating redress should not be 18 January 2021 (when the last 
transfer was sent), it should be three days thereafter  21 January 2021  to give 
allowance for time up to when that transfer was settled.
There is specific correspondence evidence that shows his full intent to reinvest as 
soon as possible, but for the delay caused by KW.
Merit remains in his claim about lack of support from KW and his emails to the 
adviser, which have been cited against him, have been misunderstood. He 
expressed personal thanks to the adviser for going beyond what KW allowed him to 
do, but there was still an overall failure by KW to support him during the transfer 
process. Furthermore, the notion of KW covering additional costs has also been 
misunderstood. Contrary to what has been said, KW did not wilfully do this, it initially 
resisted doing so until he complained and it refused to cover the cost of the third 
additional partial transfer that he asked for. This also lends itself to the matter of 
mitigation. Primarily, and aside from his duty to mitigate, KW failed in its duty to 
mitigate the detriments that its delay had caused by unreasonably limiting the 
additional partial transfers to two. He asked for a third additional transfer prior to and 
after 1 December but KW refused. Had it agreed, partial transfers could have been 
made earlier. In this context, the duty upon him to mitigate is arguably irrelevant and 
it is unfair to focus on it.
Events around, and on, 1 December have also been misunderstood. To clarify   on 
27 November he complained about having to pay additional transfer fees; on 29 
November he shared his planned reinvestments with the adviser; before and soon 
after 1 December he had also requested the third additional partial transfer (which 
KW refused); also before and after 1 December, KW gave repeated assurances that 
he would not be left with a financial detriment; the assurances were not qualified or 
limited and they were made with KWs awareness of his planned reinvestments, so it 
is fair to say they extended to financial loss in relation to the planned reinvestments; 
the idea of interim funds was his idea, not KWs; on 1 December he had a number of 
telephone calls with the adviser to explore how viable this idea was; the adviser then 
advised against it [for specific reasons, summarised in Mr Bs submissions] and he 
(Mr B) agreed. Furthermore, if the idea was viable, why did KW not proceed with it. 
Also on 1 December, he asked for a transfer of cash, but that was not made.My provisional finding that KW would probably have paid any additional costs 
associated with its proposal of 1 December should be revised, in light of his 
submissions about having to fight for payment of the additional transfer costs that 
KW was initially reluctant to make. 
Redress to him should take a simpler form, based on the starting point valuation of 
£483,864 (which the PD refers to with different values on pages 2 and 6); based on 
the planned reinvestments he specified and on the growth on the starting valuation 
up to 21 January 2021; minus the transfer value on 21 January 2021; and plus 
interest to date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the case, the PD and Mr Bs submissions. Having done so, I retain the 
findings in the PD and I have not been persuaded by his submissions to change them. I 
incorporate those findings into this decision. As I addressed in the PD, the matters of redress 
and mitigation are the key issues to resolve and I set out the three potential outcomes to 
reach in this decision. I also noted that the third outcome was most likely to be my 
conclusion. Following my review, on balance, and for the reasons given in the PD the third 
outcome is my conclusion in this case. I repeat those reasons in the redress section that 
follows below.
First, I address Mr Bs points.
In the PD, I said  There is also evidence from Mr Bs complaint submissions that 
there were problems in the transfer process, specifically during the partial transfers, 
which were remote to KW and which, he alleges, were caused by II. He has referred 
to his pursuit of a separate complaint in this respect and  the case against KW 
remains limited to the delays in executing the liquidations and the direct 
consequences of that. It does not extend to overall responsibility for the transfer  
KW was the Discretionary Investment Manager for the X SIPPs portfolio, so its 
responsibility in the process was defined by this role and was essentially limited to 
executing the investment liquidations  then X was the ceding SIPP scheme and II 
was the receiving SIPP scheme and both retained their respective responsibilities in 
the transfer process. 
The facts and evidence continue to support the above findings. Mr B has referred to 
a wider (and advisory) service from KW but he also accepts that his complaint in that 
respect has been pursued and settled separately. Therefore, it remains the case that 
the present complaint is only about KWs delay(s) in liquidating the SIPP. For the 
above reasons, I disagree with Mr Bs suggestion, or argument, that the matter to 
consider goes beyond this.
For similar reasons, I am also not persuaded by his claim for more compensation 
from KW for trouble and upset, above the £200 set by the investigator. Either 
consciously or otherwise, Mr B appears to view this claim in the context of the 
transfer delay as a whole  or, at least, in the context of KW being mainly at fault for 
the overall delay. This is perhaps illustrated by his reference to the impact of the 
transfer upon his retirement plans. The balance of evidence does not establish such 
responsibility, so the remit for this claim is also limited to KWs role in liquidating the SIPP. On this basis, and mindful that KWs agreement to cover the two additional 
partial transfer costs and its mitigation offer of 1 December helped to reduce the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr B, I consider that the award of £200 is fair and 
reasonable.
As stated in the PD, the end date for the third redress outcome is the date of my 
final decision, and the start date is the first date after 1 December on which Mr B 
made reinvestment(s) in the II SIPP.
Mr Bs explanation of his expressions of thanks to the adviser do not alter my findings 
on his claim that KW failed to support him. The basis on which the adviser provided 
the support that he (Mr B) was expressly grateful for is irrelevant. The facts are that 
such support was provided by the adviser, who represented KW, and it was good 
enough to prompt Mr B to give unsolicited and repeated written thanks, so, on 
balance, his claim about lack of support from KW is defeated by this evidence.
The issue about Mr Bs reinvestment intention is mainly about the conflict it faces 
from the opportunity that was given to him on 1 December to begin execution of that 
intention and that he declined. His argument about pursuing, before and after this 
date, KWs coverage of a third partial transfer appears to be redundant. No partial 
transfer happened until 14 December. It is not clear how, prior to (or soon after) 1 
December, a refusal to grant a third transfer can be relevant to the matter when the 
first transfer did not happen until 14 December. There were partial transfers, 
including the two additional transfers covered by KW, yet to be exhausted around 1 
December, so why would there be relevance in a refusal to cover a third additional 
transfer? It is also not clear how this establishes a failure to mitigate by KW  and I 
do not consider that such has been established. Whether (or not) KW wilfully offered 
to cover the two additional transfers is also a redundant matter. The fact is that it 
covered the costs of both additional transfers.
Returning to the conflict between Mr Bs argument about his reinvestment intention 
and the opportunity he declined, I accept that his email of 29 November is evidence 
of the intention. The problem is his claim that he would have made those 
reinvestments earlier, but for delays. His action in declining the opportunity to begin 
making those reinvestments on 1 December opposes and, I consider, defeats this 
claim. Evidence of correspondence between both sides in this respect confirms, in 
his own words, that the decision to decline the opportunity was his, that it was based 
on his consideration of the matter and that he reached this decision because he 
considered that the opportunity required additional effort on his part that he could not 
afford to give and that it would result in an incomplete portfolio. Instead, he proposed 
a form of redress that he said KW should make to him after the liquidations were 
completed. His email to KW in this respect does not appear to refer to the telephone 
advice (against the option) from the adviser that he mentions and I have not seen 
record of such advice. In response, the adviser/KW simply accepted his position (in 
terms of declining the option) and continued with the idea of partial transfers. 
Notably, the advisers response (also on 1 December) referred to £132,500 ready to 
go now and £65,000 next week and asked Mr B to do what was necessary with II 
and X to facilitate their transfer, so this seems to further counter the suggestion that 
KW delayed the partial transfers of liquidated funds.
I have not seen evidence that KW gave an unlimited assurance to cover Mr Bs 
financial loss, to the extent of reinvestment losses. This appears to be his 
interpretation of KWs offer but it is not supported by what KW actually said, or by the 
balance of available evidence.For the reasons given in the PD, I retain the view that KW would probably have 
covered any additional costs arising from the mitigation option that was proposed.
The valuation mentioned on page 2 of the PD was part of my summary of the 
investigators findings. The valuation on page 6 of the PD was part of my findings. 
Mr Bs redress calculation proposal appears to rest on his claim for total redress  
which, for the reasons I set out below (and presented in the PD), I do not uphold. I 
retain the basis for redress I presented in the third outcome in the PD. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, and in the PD, I award Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him in the complaint matter.
In terms of redress for financial loss, and for the reasons given above and in the PD, I find 
that Mr B failed to mitigate from 1 December 2020; however, other liquidations (and 
liquidation proceeds) continued to be delayed thereafter (until the final partial transfer on 18 
January 2021); there are grounds to award redress for those proceeds (only), as I consider 
that they would have been reinvested earlier but for the continuing delays; no award is due 
for financial loss in the X SIPPs portfolios liquidation value because, as addressed in the 
PD, no such loss exists; but KW must pay him redress for financial loss in some of the post-
transfer reinvestments based on what I set out below. 
Available evidence is that, without the liquidation delays, the X SIPP would have been fully 
liquidated by 23 November at a total value of £483,597.98. There is also evidence that this 
amount would have been with X on this date ready for transfer to II; that, in reality, X took up 
to four working days to complete its transfers to II so it probably would have taken the same 
length of time, up to 27 November, to complete the transfer of this amount; and that this 
amount would then have been available for reinvestment in the II SIPP on the next working 
day  on 30 November.
£483,597.98 is A.
Only the total unrealized/unliquidated value in the X SIPP as of 1 December is the subject of 
redress. The total value that had already been liquidated as of this date is excluded because 
Mr Bs failure to mitigate in this respect closed KWs liability for this aspect. The total value 
already liquidated in the X SIPP as of 1 December is B.
The basis for redress (C) is A minus B.
The start date for the calculation of redress is the first date after 1 December on which Mr B 
made reinvestment(s) in the II SIPP. Despite what I set out above, I do not consider 30 
November as a fair start date because his failure to take action towards mitigation the day 
after (on 1 December) conflicts with the notion that he would have reinvested at the time. 
However, on balance, his first actual reinvestment(s) thereafter provides a broadly 
reasonable date on which it can be found that he would have reinvested all of C but for the 
liquidation delays after 1 December. Available evidence is that the first partial transfer of 
liquidated funds (a total of £318,500) to II happened on 14 December, and his first actual 
reinvestment(s) thereafter (so, also after 1 December) appears to have been on 18 
December. However, I order that the exact date  the start date  is confirmed by Mr B, and 
provided to KW, with evidence.I order KW to calculate how all the amounts actually liquidated and transferred after 1 
December have performed up to the date of this decision. I order Mr B to provide KW with all 
information and documentation it reasonably needs, and does not already have, in order to 
conduct this calculation. The actual reinvestments made with these amounts is, collectively, 
the benchmark and the result of this calculation is the actual value.
I order KW to calculate how C would have performed if invested in line with the benchmark 
from the start date to the date of this decision. The result of this calculation is the fair value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is due to Mr B. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, the difference is the total compensation that must be 
paid to Mr B. 
I order that KW pay any resulting compensation into Mr Bs SIPP, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation; that the payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief; that the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into his SIPP 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; that if the compensation (and 
any interest) cannot be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid directly to him; that had it been 
possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income, so the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid; that the notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation).
I order KW to provide Mr B with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Mr Bs case, the complaint event occurred 
after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 
2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order KW Wealth Planning Limited 
to compensate him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman