DRN-3661815
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland required him to take out a pension policy (which he 
considers to be a Payment Protection Insurance policy), as a condition of a partnership loan. 
He believes the policy was mis-sold. 
What happened
Before he retired, Mr S was a senior partner in a firm of building surveyors Ill refer to as H. 
In March 1987 Mr S started a S226 pension plan (ending **334) with Scottish Equitable, 
which is now part of the Bank of Scotland (BoS) group, so BoS is responsible for 
answering the complaint. For ease Ill simply refer to BoS in the decision. 
 
In May 1989 Mr S took out a professional partners loan of £31,140 on interest-only terms 
through another part of BoS. The purpose is recorded on the application form as 
partnership capital, refinancing overdraft facilities. The loan repayment vehicle was 
recorded as Mr Ss S226 pension policy with Scottish Equitable. At the time of the loan Mr S 
also took out term assurance policy/ies to repay the loan in the event of his death. His 
complaint about this has been dealt with separately. 
Mr S made contributions to the pension plan over the years, which in June 2000 was valued 
at £151,289. On retirement it would provide a tax-free lump sum of around £32,654, and an 
annual income for life (annuity) of just under £10,885 payable from June 2001. 
Mr S retired from his business in 2000 giving up all executive roles, but he was involved in 
the winding up of the company in 2002. And in 2004 Mr S received a letter confirming the 
borrowing had been repaid and the partners guarantees released. 
In August 2019 Mr S complained to BoS believing hed been mis-sold a Payment Protection 
Insurance policy (PPI) as a condition of the partnership loan. BoS didnt uphold the 
complaint. They explained Mr Ss policy ending **334 wasnt PPI, it was a S226 pension 
policy for self-employed or other people who didnt have access to a workplace pension. 
Although it was used to repay the loan, as the pension plan had started two years before the 
loan was applied for, it couldnt have been taken out as a condition of the loan. 
Mr S disagreed and referred his complaint to this service in December 2019, as he still 
believed hed been mis-sold PPI. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said Mr Ss complaint wasnt one we had the 
legal power to consider. She said Mr S wasnt an eligible complainant according to our rules, 
as the pension policy was the repayment vehicle for a business loan. So Mr S wasnt a 
consumer as he hadnt been acting wholly or mostly outside of his trade or profession. 
Mr S disagreed. He didnt comment on whether he was an eligible complainant, but 
maintained hed been sold a PPI policy. He said he hadnt needed another pension as he 
already had one with provider S, and couldnt have afforded to pay into two policies. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to an ombudsman.
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2022 to explain why I thought Mr Ss 
complaint was one we had the legal power to look into. 
I thought Mr S was an eligible complainant according to our rules, as I didnt agree with the 
investigator who said Mr S hadnt been acting outside of his trade or profession. I said at the 
time the pension started Mr S was a consumer. As the evidence showed the pension had 
started a couple of years before Mr S took out the loan for business purposes. 
I also said that even though Mr S had complained outside of the time limits which applied, 
BoS had consented to our involvement. So I didnt need to consider that aspect further. 
Having decided we had the legal power to look at Mr Ss complaint, I went on to consider the 
merits, but I didnt uphold it. 
In summary I said
Mr S believes his pension is a PPI policy. But PPI was a particular type of insurance 
policy which would cover monthly loan or credit card repayments if the borrower was 
temporarily unable to do so, through illness or unemployment. It was paid for either 
by monthly premiums or sometimes the total premiums were added to the loan 
amount, and those premiums wouldnt attract tax relief. 
Given the passage of time its not surprising theres little paperwork from the time the 
policy started, but I was satisfied policy ending **443 was not PPI, but a S226 
pension plan, often called a retirement annuity contract. 
The contributions Mr S made benefitted from tax relief (as set out in S226 of the 
Income Tax Act 1970). 
At maturity the plan allowed the policy holder to take a tax-free lump sum with the 
remaining balance used to purchase an annuity to provide an income for life. 
Mr Ss policy released a tax-free lump sum of £32,654 which was sufficient to repay 
the loan, and the remaining £118,635 was used to purchase an annuity. 
According to the paperwork, the annuity has been paying Mr S an annual income of 
£10,885 since 2001 and will continue to do so for the rest of his life. So hes already 
received back significantly more than the fund value at maturity. 
Id not seen any information in relation to Mr Ss other pension plan with provider S, 
so couldnt say what type of policy it is or when it started. 
But if its a personal pension its unlikely to have predated the S226 policy, as 
personal pensions didnt exist prior to 1988.
Without the point of sale paperwork I couldnt be sure what Mr S was told when he 
started the pension. 
But such policies were designed to provide a tax efficient way to save for retirement 
for those people who didnt have access to a workplace pension, and as far as I 
could see it has done that. 
I was satisfied this policy was not PPI, so there were no grounds to uphold the complaint or 
make any award.
Responses to the provisional decision
BoS responded to say they accepted the provisional decision but had no further 
comments to make.
Mr S didnt respond. 
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions in my provisional decision.
So I remain of the view we can look into Mr Ss complaint. 
But as Im satisfied Mr S had a S226 pension policy, which has provided him with a tax-free 
lump sum and income for life by way of an annuity, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint that he 
was mis-sold a PPI policy. 
And as the pension policy started two years prior to the loan being taken out, it couldnt have 
been a condition of the loan.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman