DRN-3113461
The complaint
Miss P complains Think Money Limited unfairly recorded a CIFAS marker against her. She 
wants the marker removed and compensation for the distress and impact it has had on her.
What happened
The investigator who gave Miss P their view on her complaint covered the background facts 
of what happened, so I find no need to repeat everything they said. But in summary:
Miss P held a Think Money account. She opened it to receive payments for the sale 
of luxury goods for a specific fashion brand and the re-sale of tickets for a popular 
event. She says she marketed the items to her large social media following via a 
popular social media platform. 
Think Money restricted her account to review her account activity. Miss P says this 
led to issues resolving problems with her customers. 
Miss P says some customers became impatient because they hadnt received 
tickets, which was caused by the event provider only sending tickets shortly before 
the event. This could have led some customers to report the payments to their banks 
for non-receipt of tickets. She says some customers agreed to collect the tickets from 
her at the event, but others didnt want to.
Miss P says there was a dispute with one customer who wanted to return an item 
which was correctly described at the time of sale, and who she refused to refund. But 
she says most of the matters were resolved either by tickets being provided or 
purchases being refunded through other accounts.
Think Money returned funds in the Think Money account to payees. It later decided 
to record a marker against Miss P with CIFAS. Miss P says the marker was unfair 
and not in line with CIFAS requirements. She says there was nothing untoward 
about her activity, and the marker caused another account to close, and has 
hindered her ability to obtain suitable accounts and lending. Think Money says it had 
enough information to record the marker and will not remove it.
An investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. They found:
Think Money needed to have reasonable grounds to believe a financial crime or 
fraud had been committed by Miss P. And it also needed to have enough clear and 
robust evidence that it could confidently report her conduct to the police.
Think Money provided information and evidence which shows it met the standard 
CIFAS requires of its members to record the marker. Some of the information which 
was provided conflicted with some of things Miss P had said. And Think Money had 
asked Miss P for evidence to support her version of events at the time, which it didnt 
receive.
It was reasonable for Think Money to return funds in the account to payees and to 
close the account after the notice period.
Miss P disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached, so the complaint was passed to 
me as an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Think Money needed to meet the evidential standard CIFAS requires of its members 
to record the marker. But it wasnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that 
Miss P was involved in a fraud. Indeed, a criminal investigation and prosecution is a 
matter for the police and crown prosecution service to conduct.
Nonetheless, reporting a CIFAS marker requires Think Money to have had and 
retained enough clear and robust information to confidently report the conduct of 
Miss P to the police, although it doesnt need to have made a report. This means it 
needed to have more than a mere suspicion to record a marker.
Think Money has provided the information it relied on to record the marker. I have 
treated this information in confidence due to its nature, a power afforded to me under 
DISP 3.5.9R (3). The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out our services powers, 
and they form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
I reviewed Think Moneys rationale for recording the marker and the information it 
considered. Miss P disagrees she has done anything wrong. And that could well be 
the case, but I am not going to direct Think Money to remove the marker. Based on 
what I have seen, Im satisfied it met the standard CIFAS requires of its members to 
record the marker. 
Think Money could restrict Miss Ps account to conduct a review given its 
responsibilities to monitor accounts and, where possible, to try to prevent financial 
harm. The account had only recently been opened and there were numerous 
payments into the account by third parties. So, its understandable why Think Money 
wanted to know more about the payments and why further activity was stopped until 
it was satisfied everything was okay. Its actions are even more understandable given 
the general purpose behind using a Think Money account.
Miss P gave explanations to Think Money about the payments she received. But 
Think Money asked for supporting evidence and information, which it appears Miss P 
didnt send. I see no reason why she couldnt have provided this information to   
Think Money at that time. As a result, Im satisfied Think Moneys decision to return 
payments to payees and close the account was reasonable and in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint for the reasons I have given above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman