DRN-3151362
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his current account without notice. 
Hed like for Nationwide to re-open his account. 
What happened
Mr M held a current account with Nationwide which had a monthly subscription fee of £13. 
The account had been overdrawn on several occasions.
In February 2021, Nationwide wrote to Mr M requesting that he repay the unarranged 
overdraft balance on his account. Having not received a response to this letter Nationwide 
wrote to him again to explain that if he didnt repay the overdraft or if they didnt hear from 
him within 30 days, they would close his account.  
As no response was received from Mr M, Nationwide closed the account on 1 April 2021. 
Mr M complained. He said he hadnt received any of Nationwides letters and he was 
unhappy this information wasnt communicated by email. 
Nationwide looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. They said, theyd written to him 
and closed the account in line with the account terms and conditions. Nationwide also said 
they were unable to send their communication via email. They encouraged Mr M to contact 
his postal service to discuss the issues he was having with receiving his mail. 
Unhappy with this Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He felt Nationwide had treated 
him unfairly, and that they should re-open his account. 
The investigator looking into the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he 
agreed that Nationwide had closed Mr Ms account in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. He also didnt think Nationwide acted unfairly by writing to Mr M by post. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He maintained Nationwide ought to have sent him an email to inform him about 
the demand for payment and account closure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. I 
know this will disappoint Mr M, so Ill explain why.
 
Generally, banks and financial firms can close an account and withdraw its services or 
facilities providing they do so in line with the terms and condition of the account.
Ive carefully reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see if Nationwide closed the 
account in line with them  having done so Im satisfied they have. The term thats relevant 
here says:
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. 
These might include: e) weve demanded that you repay an overdrawn balance on your 
account and you fail to do so
On 12 February 2021 Nationwide sent Mr M a letter of demand to repay the unauthorised 
overdrawn balance. And they wrote to him again later the same month to inform him they 
were going to close his account if they didnt hear from him within 30 days from the date of 
this letter. 
In line with the above term Nationwide were entitled to close the account immediately. But 
they actually gave a further 30 days notice of their intention and the account wasnt finally 
closed until around six weeks from the date of that letter. I dont think Nationwide acted 
unfairly in these circumstances. 
Mr M says he didnt receive either of the letters from Nationwide, so I can understand why 
his account being closed might have come as a shock to him. But the letters were correctly 
addressed, so whilst I cant explain why Mr M didnt receive these letters, this isnt something 
I can fairly hold Nationwide responsible for. Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide sent letters to 
Mr M and closed the account in line with its terms and conditions. I dont think their actions 
were unfair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr M thinks Nationwide should have emailed him, rather than sending letters. 
Ultimately, its up to Nationwide how it chooses to communicate with customers providing its 
one of the agreed communication methods. And the accounts terms and conditions state 
they will communicate via post, phone and email. In the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think their decision to send important information by post was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr M says he hasnt been able to open another account elsewhere and he is concerned that 
this situation has impacted his credit record. Nationwides file on this complaint showed that 
Mr M also held another basic account with them (separate to the account that was closed). 
So I dont think Nationwides decision has left Mr M without access to banking facilities.  
Nationwide have an obligation to record and report accurate information to the relevant 
credit referencing agencies. So any reporting on the status and closure of Mr Ms account 
would be an accurate representation of what happened here. Ive not been provided with any 
evidence to suggest that anything Nationwide have reported is inaccurate or incorrect. 
Overall, I think Nationwides decision to close Mr Ms account was in line with its terms and 
conditions. I dont think Nationwide has treated Mr M unfairly or provided a poor service. As 
such, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman