DRN-3004762
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and their decision to correspond with a Claims 
Management Company (A) who she believes made a claim for payment protection 
insurance (PPI) on her behalf without authorisation.
What happened
In August 2019, A submitted a claim for mis-sold PPI to Lloyds on Mrs Ps behalf. As part of 
this application, A provided a letter of authority (LOA) signed in May 2019 by Mrs P, which 
authorised A to act as her representative.
Lloyds accepted this LOA, and listed A as Mrs Ps representative. They investigated mis-
sold PPI on the loan the claim was for, as well as other claims linked to the same loan in line 
with industry guidelines. And they upheld the claim, awarding Mrs P a substantial PPI refund 
arising from loans in her name and the name of her late husband, as she was listed as 
executor for his estate.
A invoiced Mrs P for their settlement fee, and she paid this. But after doing so, she was 
unhappy as she says she didnt authorise A to act on her behalf. And because of this, she 
was unhappy that Lloyds had investigated the claims and provided A with personal 
information about her and her late husbands accounts, and the PPI refund shed received. 
So, she raised a complaint.
Mrs A believed Lloyds had failed to protect her personal data by supplying A with personal 
and banking information. She felt by doing so, shed been impacted financially as shed 
since paid As invoice for a fee she didnt feel they were entitled to. And she was unhappy 
with the length of time it took for Lloyds to respond to her complaint. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the impact this had on her emotionally, and her reputation. She also 
wanted Lloyds to retrieve and destroy any information they passed to A, disclose any 
financial interests they had with A, and agree to identify and compensate any other 
customers in the same position as her.
Lloyds didnt agree. They thought theyd received a valid LOA from A, which authorised A as 
Mrs Ps representative. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by accepting the 
claim and providing A with information that related to this and the accounts they investigated. 
They were satisfied theyd provided Mrs P with a fair PPI refund, that placed her back in the 
same position she wouldve been had PPI not been mis-sold to her and her late husband. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. They also explained any issues Mrs P 
had with A, and the fee they invoiced for, would need to be raised with A directly as this 
wasnt something they were responsible for. Mrs P remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained we were 
unable to consider asking Lloyds to retrieve and destroy the data provided to A, as this was 
something only the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) could direct. And she explained 
were only able to investigate Mrs P individual circumstance, and the service she received. 
So, we were unable to direct Lloyds to take action for other customers Mrs P feels were in 
the same position. She also explained we were unable to consider the way Lloyds handled 
her complaint, as this was an unregulated activity and fell outside of our remit.
But she did consider whether Lloyds acted fairly by accepting A as Mrs Ps representative 
and providing them information about the accounts that contained PPI. And she thought they 
had. She explained A provided an LOA with Mrs Ps details and a signature, so she thought 
Lloyds were fair to assume Mrs P authorised A to pursue her claim. And shed seen 
evidence to show Lloyds had made Mrs P aware a claim was ongoing, and that Mrs P hadnt 
challenged this with Lloyds. So, she didnt think Lloyds had any reasonable way of knowing 
Mrs P didnt want A to act as her representative or receive information about her accounts. 
So, she didnt think she could say Lloyds had done anything wrong and didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Our investigator explained any issues Mrs P held regarding the fees invoiced by A, or the 
service provided by A, would need to be raised with A directly as they were regulated 
separately.
Mrs P didnt agree. She thought the evidence provided showed Lloyds hadnt accepted the 
LOA as a valid agreement. So, she thought this proved Lloyds shouldnt have provided any 
information to A from the outset and she wanted to be compensated for this. As Mrs P didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mrs P. I understand Mrs P 
received an invoice for a substantial amount of money from A. And I can appreciate how 
concerning and worrying this wouldve been, as Mrs P says she had no dealings with A. So, 
when she discovered Lloyds had been liaising with A on her behalf, I can understand why 
Mrs P would question this and feel as though her data had been breached. But for me to say 
Lloyds have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that it was reasonably clear to 
Lloyds that Mrs P hadnt authorised A as her representative and so, shouldnt have provided 
A with information relating to Mrs Ps accounts. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. Part of Mrs Ps complaint relates data protection breaches, 
and in resolution to this she wants data retrieved and destroyed. This isnt something Ive 
been able to consider, as this would be within the remit of the ICO, who regulate the use of 
personal data and information within the United Kingdom.
And Mrs P has also complained about the way Lloyds handled her complaint. This isnt 
something Ive been able to consider, as complaints handling isnt a regulated activity to falls 
outside of our services jurisdiction.
And finally, Mrs Ps complaint involves the actions of A, and the fees theyve charged her. A 
are a separately regulated Claims Management Company, so any issues Mrs P has surrounding the service they provided would need to be raised separately with the Claims 
Management Ombudsman, which is a separate part of our service.
But what I am able to consider is the service Lloyds provided to Mrs P directly. So, in this 
case, whether theyve acted fairly by accepting A as Mrs Ps representative and proceeding 
to share information about Mrs P and her late husbands accounts with them.
Ive seen the claim Lloyds received from A in August 2019. As part of this claim, A submitted 
a LOA which was signed and dated by Mrs P. The LOA included Mrs Ps full name, address 
and date of birth alongside this signature. While Im aware Mrs P might dispute the signature 
as she doesnt believe she authorised A to continue, I dont think there is anything on the 
LOA that would suggest to Lloyds that it wasnt valid. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by 
treating it as genuine and setting up the claim with A as Mrs Ps representative.
Mrs P thinks Lloyds shouldve contacted her directly at this point to check the LOA was 
genuine and ask for further written confirmation. But this isnt something Id expect Lloyds to 
do and it isnt standard industry process to do so. When an LOA is received with a customer 
signature, Lloyds are entitled to accept this as genuine unless theres a reason to suggest 
why the LOA shouldnt be valid. And I cant see a reason on this occasion.
And even so, Ive seen Lloyds wrote to Mrs P in both October and November 2019, before 
the PPI claims were upheld. And in these letters, they provided updates on the status of Mrs 
Ps claim and included As reference within it. If Mrs P didnt authorise A to submit a claim on 
her behalf, then I wouldve expected Mrs P to query this with Lloyds as this was her 
opportunity to do so. And I cant see that she did. So, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by 
continuing with the claim with A listed as the representative.
And as A were the representative, Id expect Lloyds to provide A with information about the 
claim. This includes updates on the status of the claim and the final offer letter. This is 
because, as representative, A had taken the place of Mrs P as the claims primary contact. 
So, I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly by notifying A of the claims success, and the monetary 
amount Mrs P was due to receive.
Im aware Mrs P doesnt agree and believes the evidence Ive seen shows Lloyds didnt 
accept the LOA as a valid agreement. But I cant see anything to suggest this is the case. By 
corresponding with A, and supplying A with the offer letters, I think this shows Lloyds did 
accept the LOA as a valid document. I think Mrs P may have arrived at this conclusion as 
Lloyds sent the PPI refunds to her directly, rather than A. But this is standard industry 
process as the refund itself is payable to the customer, Mrs P in this instance. This in itself 
doesnt mean Lloyds decided the LOA provided by A was invalid.
So, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly by sharing information with A about the PPI 
claim. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs P was hoping for. And I recognise Mrs P has still 
paid an amount to A, which she doesnt feel is justified. But this is something to be raised 
with A directly and isnt the responsibility or fault of Lloyds. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman