DRN-4491030
The complaint
Miss K complains that Starling Bank Limited blocked and closed her account. She provided 
the information they requested. She would like compensation.
What happened
Miss K had an account with Starling.
Starling blocked Miss Ks account on 24 September 2022. Starling asked Miss K for 
information regarding proof of entitlement to some of the funds in her account. Miss K 
provided this to Starling the next day. Starling continued their review.
Starling decided to close Miss Ks account with immediate effect on 10 November 2022.
Miss K says she provided the information Starling wanted regarding two loans and insurance 
claims. Miss K was very prompt with her information.
Miss K was unhappy with the way Starling had treated her, she said they had reported her to 
the police, but she was cleared of any wrongdoing. So, she complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Starling had caused delays in 
the review of Miss Ks account. He therefore thought they should pay compensation to 
Miss K, together with £1,000 for the loss of a deposit on a car and £7.50 for a late payment 
fee. He also thought Starling should pay Miss K £300 compensation for the delays in the 
review and not allowing Miss K access to wages or benefits during the block.
On receipt of the view Starling provided the investigator with further information. Following 
this our investigator issued a second view. He thought Starling had accounted for the time 
the account was blocked and had provided information in confidence that showed they 
hadnt caused a delay in the review of the account.  He therefore didnt think Starling should 
be held liable for the losses Miss K had incurred during the review period. However, he still 
thought Starling should have given Miss K access to her wages and or benefits and he 
awarded £150 compensation for this. 
Miss K was unhappy with the view. She didnt understand why Starling had closed her 
account with immediate effect. She knew there had been a police investigation, but she was 
cleared of any wrongdoing. She said she suffered distress and had to borrow money from 
friends and family because her account was on hold for a few months. Miss K didnt think 
Starling were entitled to close her account in the way they did.
As there was no agreement the matter came to me, and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Review and Closure of account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Ks account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Starling were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Miss Ks account. 
Starling were entitled to ask Miss K for the information they required to carry out the review, 
so Im satisfied they acted fairly there.
This is reflected in Starlings terms and conditions. These say Starling can block an account 
or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out further 
checks. The terms and conditions of the account also allow Starling to close and suspend 
accounts immediately in some circumstances.
I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Starling was unfair. 
Starling closed the account with immediate effect. Its generally for banks to decide whether 
or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank 
must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly in closing Miss Ks account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Starling closed Miss Ks 
account without notice. For Starling to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Miss K has said that she was reported to the police, but she was cleared of any wrongdoing 
so she cant understand why her account has been closed. I appreciate what Miss K is 
saying however I havent seen enough evidence to suggest Starling is responsible for any 
decisions the police made. In any event I cant make any comment on any matter the police 
may wish to investigate as this is an issue for them and not this service. I dont think that 
Starling did anything wrong if it had concerns that it reported to the police even if these were 
later unfounded or shown to be untrue.
Id like to reassure Miss K that Ive looked at the banks actions in closing her account. The 
bank, as Ive said, is able to close the account in accordance with the terms. They can close 
the account with no notice  which is what they have done here but Im satisfied they have 
acted fairly in doing so.
Miss K has said that she has suffered losses as a result of the block of her account. In 
particular she lost out on a car she was going to buy and lost the deposit of £1,000. She also 
had to pay a late payment fee. I am sorry that Miss K has suffered losses as a result of her 
account being blocked. But as Ive said Starling were entitled to block her account and I 
havent seen anything to suggest they acted unfairly in doing so or delayed the review. This means that although I accept that Miss K suffered losses Starling shouldnt be held liable for 
these losses, so I wont be awarding Miss K compensation for these losses.
Reason
Miss K has said she wants to know the reasons why Starling blocked and then closed her 
accounts. Whilst Miss K mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account block and 
closure. Starling isnt required to give her a specific reason. And I can understand Miss Ks 
frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But Starling is under no 
obligation to provide this information to her, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say 
Starling have done anything wrong by not giving Miss K this information. 
Access to wages
The investigator in his second view awarded Miss K £150 for not having access to her 
wages or benefits. 
Ive looked at the statements and also the information Miss K herself provided to this service 
in October 2022. Miss K told us that her wages were paid into the Starling account but that 
she managed to move these. I have looked at the statements from the account. I can see 
that Miss k received benefits into the account in August 2022 and then on 20 September 
2022. The account was blocked on 25 September 2022 but by then Miss K had used that 
money for payments out of the account. I can see that no payment for benefits went into the 
account in October 2022. 
Im satisfied that having looked at the statements and taking into consideration what Miss K 
said to our service about moving her wages /benefits to another account Miss K had access 
to her wages /benefits, so Im minded to not award compensation for this.  
In my provisional decision I was minded not to uphold the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Starling has also not replied to my 
provisional decision.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead an issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Miss K and Starling have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind 
and so my provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman