DRN-3972407
The complaint
Ms H and her husband Mr S complain that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) mishandled a 
claim on a breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
For the year from September 2021, Ms H and Mr S had a breakdown policy with RAC. It 
included cover for onward travel after a breakdown.
In late March 2022, Ms H and Mr S made a claim on the policy and asked RAC for a 
temporary replacement vehicle. Mrs H and Mr S complained that RAC gave inconsistent and 
confusing information that caused them unnecessary stress. They ended up arranging the 
hire of a vehicle themselves.
By a final response dated mid-May 2022, RAC turned down the complaint but offered to 
reimburse an invoice for Ms H and Mr Ss hire costs.
Ms H and Mr S brought the complaint to us in late August 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
RAC had treated Ms H and Mr S unfairly. He said that RAC withdrew the offer of a hire car 
due to Mr S becoming abusive to its hire car company.
Ms H and Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
He wasnt "abusive" to RACs car hire company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RACs policy terms included the following:
Misuse of your policy
You must not:
1. Behave inappropriately towards us, including acting in a threatening or 
abusive manner, whether verbally or physically; 
If these conditions are not complied with, we may:
3.Refuse to provide any services to you under this policy with immediate 
effect
I accept that, over a period of about three days, Ms H and Mr S spent time on telephone 
calls.
The car hire company kept notes for the purposes of its business. I place weight on those 
notes, and I find them likely to be accurate. 
The notes say that the car hire company had reserved a car in Ms Hs name. So I consider 
that any problem about her international drivers licence had been resolved.
The notes say that Mr S used swear words to the car hire company. So I find that Mr S 
behaved inappropriately towards RAC. Im satisfied that RAC acted in line with the policy 
terms and not unfairly when it refused to provide a vehicle.
RACs final response told Ms H and Mr S that it would reimburse their hire costs. And RAC 
later reimbursed them about £220.00 for this.
Overall, I dont conclude that RAC is responsible for treating Ms H or Mr S unfairly. I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct RAC to pay compensation for wasted time or do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct RAC Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman