DRN-2542127
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S holds with Nationwide Building Society on a shared 
ownership property; he owns part of the property and rents the other from a landlord Ill call 
M. He complains that charges Nationwide debited to his mortgage account to settle a 
dispute over rent arrears with M should now be refunded in accordance with a court order. 
Hes also unhappy that Nationwide debited his account with around £1,800 of legal costs 
between March 2018 and February 2020; he thinks these must be refunded too.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
An underlying dispute has existed between Mr S and M for around ten years, following an 
escape of water in the property that caused significant damage forcing Mr S to move out for 
an extended period. 
Mr S has brought various complaints to us in the past about how his insurance claims were 
handled; he also brought a complaint to us in 2017 that Nationwide had paid M around 
£2,400 (which was added to his mortgage account) after M had said it was intending to start 
possession proceedings for overdue rent. An ombudsman colleague determined that 
complaint and in early 2018; he concluded that Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably 
to protect its security. 
Mr S has brought the current complaint because since that earlier decision, a court has 
issued an order in proceedings between Mr S and M. In that order, dated 24 November 
2018, the judge said the following:
The Respondent must pay the Appellants costs of the appeal and is subject of detailed 
assessment if not agreed, there shall be a detailed assessment of the Appellants publicly 
funded costs.
The essence of the current complaint is that Mr S believes this requires Nationwide to refund 
the charges it debited to his mortgage account when it settled the rent arrears with M, and 
the legal costs debited since. Nationwide didnt agree, and nor did our investigator when the 
case was referred to this service. Mr M has asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the email from Mr S dated 22 and 25 January 2021 respectively. Ive noted 
Mr S saying he will take legal action against this service if we dont deal with the complaint in 
the manner he wishes us to.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. Im aware Mr S is unhappy about what 
information has been provided and shared and has made a subject access request. 
Thats his prerogative but its a separate matter from my review of the case. Its only relevant 
here if I consider any delay and/or limitation in the provision of information and evidence has 
impacted on my ability to decide the complaint fairly. Having considered everything that both 
parties have said and provided, Im satisfied I have all that I need to determine the case fairly 
and reasonably.
The first point I need to make is that our rules dont allow me to revisit my fellow 
ombudsmans decision from 2018 that the charges were fairly added to Mr S mortgage 
account in the first place. However, I can consider the fairness of the legal costs debited 
since my colleagues decision. 
Whilst it wasnt a party to the ongoing litigation between Mr S and M, and notwithstanding 
what the court ultimately decided, Nationwide was reasonably entitled to take the view that 
its security might still be at risk. Monitoring the case to protect its position was Nationwides 
judgement to make, and I dont find that Nationwide treated Mr S unfairly by debiting his 
mortgage account with the costs it incurred to do so.
What that leaves me to decide is whether either (or both) sets of charges should now be 
removed, as a consequence of the court order of 24 November 2018.
I said earlier that we dont replicate the work of the courts, but thats effectively what Mr S is 
asking us to do here. For me to find in his favour would mean me second guessing the 
intention of the judge who handed down the order on 24 November 2018. First, it would 
require me to interpret the order as binding Nationwide even though it wasnt a party to the 
court proceedings. Secondly, it would require me to interpret the phrase the Appellants 
costs of the appeal as including the charges Nationwide paid M and debited to Mr S 
mortgage, and the legal costs debited later.
Its not in my remit to do either of those things; only the judge who handed the order down 
can do so. For Mr S to pursue the outcome hes seeking, he would need to go back to the 
court and ask the judge to amend the order to say what he believes it should say. Before he 
does that, Mr S may want to obtain specialist legal advice on whether Nationwide can be 
added to the legal case between him and M.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr S has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from 
the fine detail and taking an overview. Ive done that here, and for the reasons set out, I cant 
find in Mr S favour, however much he thinks I should.
Theres one last thing; Mr S says Nationwide didnt deal with this complaint properly when he 
made it. The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the 
regulator requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated 
activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the 
legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
but there is another thing that we need to consider, which is that we can only make an award 
for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the underlying issue 
being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. As Im not upholding Mr S complaint, 
then it follows I cant uphold any complaint and award any compensation for how his 
complaint was handled.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman