DRN-2775095
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was given unsuitable advice to opt out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, causing him a 
potential loss in retirement benefits.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator for these reasons:
Prudential have already accepted that Mr O shouldnt have been advised to opt out 
of SERPS in 1992. So it isnt necessary for me to comment on the suitability of that 
advice.
Prudential made an offer to Mr O to put him into the position hed have been in if he 
hadnt opted out. Theyve suggested returning the National Insurance (NI) rebates, 
that were received into Mr Os pension scheme, to the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP). If DWP will accept the return of those rebates then Im satisfied that 
the value of the SERPS part of Mr Os state pension will be returned to what it would 
have been had Prudential not received the contracted out rebates. 
I think that returning Mr Os Prudential pension to the position it would have been in 
had the NI rebates not been received would also be fair if the rebates are returned to 
DWP. This is because its part of returning Mr O to the position hed have been if 
Prudential hadnt provided unsuitable advice.
Prudential offered an alternative means of compensation if the DWP are unable to 
accept the rebates back. They explained that theyd work out the capital value of the 
future SERPS (now S2P) benefits Mr O would have received if the rebates hadnt 
been made to the personal pension and compare that to the value of the rebate fund 
to ascertain if theres a loss. Where that identifies a loss, compensation will be paid 
into Mr Os personal pension so that his benefits are the same as the lost SERPS 
benefits. Im satisfied that this is a fair alternative way to put Mr O into the position he 
would have been had the NI rebates not been paid into his Prudential pension.
Mr O informed me that he doesnt think that re-instating him into SERPS puts him 
back into the position hed have been, because the advice altered his retirement 
planning. Ive considered these concerns, but still believe that what Prudential 
propose is a fair and reasonable way to address their mistake. Our service tries, 
where possible, to put consumers as closely into the position theyd have been if 
things had happened as they shouldve. In this case, that means Mr O wouldnt have  
been advised to opt out of the SERPS. So, hed never have received the NI rebates 
into his personal pension and his contributions would have added to the value of the 
SERPS part of his state pension instead. Which is what Prudentials suggested 
redress achieves.
In addition to returning Mr O to the position he should be in, Prudential have offered 
£100 for the trouble and upset this caused him. Mr O is 49 years old, so some years 
away from being able to take his personal pension or state pension. Which means he 
hasnt suffered any loss of pension income. So the impact on him relates to his 
retirement planning and expectation for his future pension. I therefore think that the 
offer of £100 fairly compensates Mr O for the trouble and upset Prudentials mistake 
caused. 
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to put Mr O into the 
position he would have been and pay him £100 compensation. I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances.
So my decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should compensate Mr O 
in the manner they have proposed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman