DRN-4044607
The complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined his claim,
avoided his policy (treated it as though it never existed) and failed to return his car following
a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr A was involved in a car accident. He contacted Advantage to make a
claim. It arranged for the damage to be inspected. The car was deemed to be a total loss
and Mr A was offered a settlement payment. Mr A didnt think this amount was fair.
Advantage reviewed the claim and found hed been involved in three claims that hadnt been
declared.
In mid-January 2022 Advantage wrote to Mr A to confirm it was declining his claim and
avoiding his policy back to inception. It says it wouldnt have offered cover had it known
about the three undeclared claims. Advantage says it agreed to return the salvage to Mr A.
But due to a mistake this didnt happen, and it was sold on. Advantage sent Mr A a payment
for £2,550 in May 2022. This was the amount the salvage agent received for the damaged
car. It also paid him £170 compensation.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. He says he
had to buy a replacement car, which was unreliable, and he lost money getting rid of it. He
says he incurred other travel costs as well as the loss of personal items that were left in his
car. Our investigator upheld his complaint in part. She says Advantage declined the claim
and avoided the policy fairly. But she thought it should pay Mr A £300 compensation for the
distress and disappointment it caused when disposing of his car.
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He says the claims hed been involved in werent his fault. He
also says he couldve had the car repaired for £1,000, and that hed had to replace items
that hed left in his car at his own cost. So, he asked for an ombudsman to consider his
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to declare the three claims that
happened in 2019 and 2020. It thinks this was a careless misrepresentation on Mr As
behalf. And under CIDRA it is able to cancel the policy and avoid it from inception.
Advantage has shown the question Mr A was asked about claims when the policy was
incepted online using a comparison website. The question, under the Claims and
convictions heading says:
In the last five years have you had or caused any accidents, claims or damage involving
any motor vehicle (including cars, motorbikes and/or vans), even if no claim was made and
regardless of blame.
Theres a help box next to this question that says:
Accidents claims and damage in the last five years: You must declare any accidents,
claims, losses or damage that occurred within the last five years, regardless of whether it
involved your car, motorbike, van or any other motor vehicle, even where you were not at
fault
I think this question is clear. If Mr A had any claims from the past five years, he shouldve
declared them. I can see that he was sent updated policy documents following an
amendment that was made in November 2021, prior to the accident. The policy year for this
cover ends in February 2022, so the original policy year ran from February 2021.
The documents Advantage provided include a statement of insurance, which tells Mr A to
check this information carefully and to inform it immediately if the details are incorrect or
have changed. It also explains Mr As duty under CIDRA and that inaccurate information
could invalidate his cover.
In the statement of insurance document there is a box entitled Incident history. This says:
For all drivers named on this policy, we need to know of any incident, claim or damage
involving any motor vehicle in the past five years, including windscreen damage. This
applies whether or not a claim was made, and regardless of blame..
The box says, none disclosed.
We asked Advantage to show that it wouldnt have offered cover had it known that Mr A had
three claims from 2019 and 2020. It sent its underwriting criteria, which shows no cover
wouldve been offered. Advantages underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive, so I cant
share it. But Im satisfied that had Mr A informed it of the claims, it wouldnt have offered him
cover.
I acknowledge Mr As view that he hadnt been to blame for the previous claims. But the
policy documentation is clear that this must be declared. This means Mr A made a qualifyingmisrepresentation when he didnt tell Advantage about these claims. Under the CIDRA rules
this means it can decline the claim and avoid the policy back to inception. I think its
reasonable that Advantage treated Mr As misrepresentation as careless, given his
understanding of what he thought needed declaring.
I can see that Advantage refunded Mr As premiums, which was the correct action under the
CIDRA rules.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr A when Advantage sold the salvage as opposed to
returning the damaged car to him as agreed.
Ive read the engineers report and the valuation reports, that show the cost of repairs was in
excess of the estimated market value of the car. So, it was appropriate to categorise the car
as an economic write-off. Mr As policy had been avoided due to his misrepresentation, so
Advantage wasnt required to settle the claim based on the cars market value. However, the
car still belonged to Mr A and Advantage was told he wanted to retain the salvage.
I acknowledge Advantages comments that this was a mistake on its part. It says Mr A hasnt
lost out financially as it has paid him the full amount the salvage agent got for the vehicle. Mr
A says he wouldve repaired the car for £1,000. However, he hasnt provided evidence to
support this. The breakdown Ive seen from Advantages engineer indicates the cost for
repairs would be far in excess of this amount.
Based on this evidence, Advantage shouldve returned the car, but I think it behaved fairly in
paying Mr A the full salvage amount. I also think its fair that it provided compensation. But in
the circumstances, I think a higher payment than the £170 it paid is appropriate.
That said Mr As car was confirmed to be a total loss in mid-December 2021. Advantage
says a cheque payment wasnt sent to Mr A until May 2022. I think its fair that it pays 8%
simple interest on this amount from the date the total loss was confirmed until this payment
was provided.
Advantage says that Mr A didnt complain about the delay in providing payment for the
salvage. It says our service cant consider this point unless hes first complained to it and it
has then had the opportunity to respond.
I dont agree. Under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules [3.7], when a
complaint is determined in favour of the complainant (Mr A), my determination may include
an interest award against the respondent (Advantage). Mr A complained about Advantages
failure to return the salvage. Its fair that my decision includes interest for the period Mr A
was without the salvage of his car. Although I think it was fair that Advantage eventually
provided the full salvage value to Mr A, he didnt receive this until around six months after
the car was declared a write-off.
Ive also thought about Mr As comments that he left personal possessions in the car,
including a tablet, trainers, and a rucksack. I cant see that Mr A brought this to Advantages
attention previously. I also havent seen evidence that these items were left in the car.
Although I dont dispute Mr As recollection, it would seem reasonable that the items he
mentioned couldve easily been carried with him. Although Im sorry for the loss he has
incurred I dont think Advantage is responsible for paying for these items.
Mr A says he bought a car for £1,700 at the beginning of January 2022. The car had issues
and he sold it six weeks later for £700. However, it was Mr As decision to buy this car. In
these circumstances I dont think its responsible for any loss Mr A incurred as a result of his
decision.Mr A describes how he contacted Advantage several times to determine where his car was
and what was happening. I can also understand why he was upset when he was told the
salvage had been disposed of. Because of the distress and inconvenience caused I agree
with our investigator that a total of £300 compensation is fair, and in line with what our
service would expect in these circumstances.
I said I was intending to partially uphold Mr As complaint and Advantage should:
pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr As car was considered a total loss until
payment for the salvage was sent *If Advantage considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Mr A £300 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience he was
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither party provided any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr As complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Services Limited should:
pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr As car was considered a total loss until
payment for the salvage was sent *If Advantage considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Mr A £300 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience he was
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman