DRN-3903026
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell him a transaction he had set up on his 
Flexi loan account wouldnt happen due to his account being closed. 
What happened
Mr S had a Flexi loan account with HSBC. In mid-August 2022 he scheduled a transfer of 
£2,000 from his Flexi loan account to his current account to take place on 31 August. He 
checked that the transaction was set up correctly. He then received a letter dated 23 August 
2022 saying his Flexi loan account would be closed in two months time. However, as his 
scheduled payment was within that period, he didnt think this would be an issue and when 
he checked online his transaction was still set up. On 2 September Mr S realised the 
transaction hadnt taken place and contacted HSBC. He says he was told his account had 
been made dormant and nothing could be done. Mr S says this issue caused him a lot of 
stress and inconvenience. He wants his Flexi loan account reinstated, an apology and 
compensation for the stress the issue has caused.
HSBC issued final response dated October 2022. It said that it was required to undertake 
reviews of its accounts to ensure the products are still appropriate to its customers needs. It 
said it could decide to close lending facilities at any time where reviews such as these 
indicated it might be necessary. It said it sent Mr S notification of the closure on 23 August 
2022. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They recommended that HSBC pay Mr S £250 for 
the inconvenience caused. They thought HSBC had acted unfairly by agreeing to Mr S 
transaction and then withdrawing the facility without reference to this and didnt think the 
letter dated 23 August was clear as it made no reference to the scheduled transaction. 
Mr S responded to our investigators view. He said although the account wasnt due for 
closure for two months his transaction still wasnt honoured. He said that HSBC should put 
things right by reinstating his Flexi loan account, submitting a full and comprehensive 
apology and offering meaningful compensation in full recognition for the stress he and his 
wife had endured due to this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset by the experience he has had in regard to his Flexi loan 
account closure. And in this case, I do not think that HSBC provided the service it should 
have.
Mr S had had a HSBC Flexi loan account for several years. HSBC has explained that it is 
required to undertake reviews of its lending products to ensure they are still meeting 
customers needs and it is reasonable that Mr S account was reviewed as part of this 
process. 
It isnt my role to say who HSBC should provide lending facilities to but instead to consider 
whether HSBC has done anything wrong in the action it has taken or treated Mr S unfairly. In 
this case Mr S Flexi loan account hadnt been used for around 24 months and Mr S was 
sent a letter giving him two months notice of the closure. 
However, before the notice of closure was sent to Mr S, he had set up a transaction to 
transfer £2,000 to his current account to take place on 31 August. This shows that Mr S had 
a borrowing need and when he set up the transaction the facility was still available to him. 
Given the transaction was set up online, had the facility no longer been available to him at 
that time it would be reasonable to have expected this to have been flagged. However, the 
transaction was set up and I do not think that HSBC provided the service it should have by 
allowing the transaction to be set up and then withdrawing the facility.
Mr S was sent notice of his Flexi loan account closure on 23 August but there was no 
mention of the transaction he had set up. Therefore, I can understand why he expected this 
transaction to take place and so was surprised in early September when this hadnt 
happened. 
I can understand why this transaction didnt take place as Mr S account was scheduled for 
closure, but HSBC didnt tell Mr S that his transaction wouldnt take place. And I can see that 
Mr S was caused considerable stress an inconvenience by not being made fully aware of the 
impact on this transaction of the account closure.
I appreciate that Mr S wants his Flexi loan account to be reinstated, however this is a 
commercial decision for HSBC, and it isnt something can require it to do. Instead, I have 
considered the impact not having his transaction actioned has had. I havent evidence that 
this issue caused Mr S any financial loss, but I can see it has been upsetting for him and 
caused him inconvenience in dealing with the issue. Therefore, I agree that compensation 
should be paid and considering the upset caused I think the £250 recommended by our 
investigator is reasonable. 
Putting things right
HSBC should, as it has agreed, pay Mr S £250 compensation for the upset caused due to 
not actioning his transaction due to the closure of his Flexi loan account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should take the action 
set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman