DRN-4378655
The complaint
R (a limited company) has submitted a complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. Its 
represented by Mr T, one of its directors, and Ill mostly refer to him throughout this decision. 
Mr T complains that HSBC hasnt refunded R after a contractor failed to complete works or 
supply goods that were paid for. Mr T believes R has been the victim of a scam, but HSBC 
has said the matter is a civil dispute.
What happened
Ive kept the background to this complaint brief, as both parties are familiar with the 
circumstances. 
Mr T engaged the services of a contractor, whom Ill refer to as Mr N. Mr N was to complete 
a range of works for the establishment of a new spa business. Mr T knew Mr N before 
contracting him for this project, having had him complete other building work to a satisfactory 
standard previously.
Mr T paid Mr N over £20,000 on Rs behalf for the agreed works and associated materials, 
including kitchen units and tiles. Mr N started work on the project, but Mr T reports that 
progress was slow and there were repeated delays in the delivery of items that Mr N assured 
him had been ordered.
Mr T says Mr N kept making excuses for not completing the work and for the non-delivery of 
items. When Mr T investigated further, by contacting the suppliers, he found that most of the 
items that were supposed to have been ordered hadnt been, despite Mr N having been 
given the money to do so. 
Mr T challenged Mr N and ultimately this resulted both signing an agreement that had been 
prepared by a solicitor. In summary, the agreement stated that Mr N agreed to repay all the 
money hed received for goods that hadnt been ordered. He has, however, failed to repay 
Mr T and R.   
Mr T reported Mr N to Trading Standards and told HSBC about what had happened, telling 
them R had been scammed. 
HSBC considered the circumstances but felt the matter was a civil dispute between a 
customer (R) and a supplier (Mr N). Mr T disagreed and asked this service to investigate.
One of our investigators found HSBC had acted fairly and reasonably in delivering the 
response it did; he agreed the matter was a civil dispute, rather than a scam. He 
acknowledged that R had no doubt lost out financially and that Mr N had failed to deliver 
what was promised. But he didnt find the evidence pointed to Mr N having a deliberate 
intent to deceive and scam R from the outset. 
Mr T didnt accept those findings and pointed to some of the key details: that goods had 
been invoiced and paid for but never ordered; that Mr N lied about suppliers delaying the 
delivery of those goods; and Mr N stopping work altogether once hed been challenged and 
exposed. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T further, but Im not upholding Rs complaint, for broadly the 
same reasons as our investigator. Im persuaded this is a civil matter between R and Mr N, 
rather than a scam that HSBC ought to bear the loss for.
That isnt to say that Mr Ns treatment of R is fair or above board. There seems little doubt 
that an agreement has been broken and that R has lost out financially as a result. But its not 
a loss I can say HSBC ought to refund. Ill explain why in more detail.
HSBC is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Broadly speaking, the Code is in place to see the victims of scams refunded by 
their bank. In setting out the scope of the Code it is stated:
DS2(2) This Code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier; 
I know Mr T feels very strongly that Mr N has deliberately deceived R to obtain money. And it 
does seem clear that Mr N took Rs money and failed to use it for the agreed purpose. But 
thats not enough for me to conclude that a scam has taken place. There are other possible 
explanations for Mr N failing to meet his obligations, including (but not limited to) him and his 
business falling into financial difficulty, as an example.
Mr N appears to have been a legitimate trader. He had carried out work for Mr T previously 
and Mr T had been happy with that work. But something seems to have gone wrong around 
the time Mr N took on the project for R. 
This service has contacted relevant third parties, including Trading Standards. Its their view, 
having investigated Mr N in detail, that this wasnt a scam. Its review included the 
consideration of other claims against Mr N, alongside Rs, and an examination of his 
financial records. Thats a more in-depth investigation than this service has the power to 
carry out, in terms of looking at Mr Ns actions and possible motives. So its right that I place 
considerable weight on what its told us. 
I have also thought about the engagement Mr T had with Mr N over the course of their 
relationship. Mr T already knew Mr N before works started, with satisfactory work having 
been completed before. And he remained in regular contact with Mr N even after hed 
become aware of  and raised his concerns about  Mr Ns conduct with him, up until the 
relationship completely broke down. This even resulted in Mr N agreeing to meet and him 
signing an agreement that might be enforceable in court. These actions arent, in my view, 
those of a deliberate scammer. I can see no reason why Mr N would have signed such an 
agreement if his intention had been to deceive and steal from the outset. Im not persuaded 
that Mr Ns further failure to honour the agreement establishes this matter as a scam either.I do sympathise with the position Mr T and R are in. I dont doubt that this matter has had a 
significant impact on getting the new business venture off the ground. That inevitably comes 
with an impact on all the people connected to R who will have suffered because of Mr Ns 
actions. But Im satisfied that fair recourse for R lies somewhere else, and not with HSBC. I 
note that Mr T has already started looking at Rs options here. And whilst those options 
appear perhaps more difficult, more formal, and more expensive to pursue, it also seems to 
me they seem the more appropriate route for R to recover its losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman