DRN-4069728
The complaint
Mr D and Ms P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) incorrectly 
repudiated their claim for subsidence on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms P had home insurance through their bank that was underwritten by RSA. In 
2018 they made a claim after noticing cracking to the property. RSA sent out a contractor 
who concluded the cracking was due to thermal movement, rather than subsidence so 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
In 2020 Mr D and Ms P contacted RSA again as theyd noticed further cracking. It sent 
another expert to inspect the damage who again concluded it was due to thermal movement. 
However they recommended some repointing should be carried out to the brickwork. Mr D 
and Ms P subsequently had this carried out at their own cost.
Shortly after this Mr D and Ms P put their house on the market. They secured a buyer and 
had an offer accepted on another property. However a pre-purchase survey was carried out 
on the property by the prospective buyer and this concluded it was suffering from 
subsidence. The sale subsequently fell through. 
Mr D and Ms P contacted RSA to let it know what had happened. It arranged for another 
contractor to visit the property and assess whether its original conclusions were correct or 
whether subsidence was causing the damage. The contractor concluded that the property 
was suffering from subsidence so RSA accepted a valid claim.
However Mr D and Ms P were unhappy that RSA had misdiagnosed the issue up until this 
point. They said this had caused them to waste money on estate agent and solicitor fees and 
was the reason the sale fell through. They made a complaint.
RSA upheld their complaint. It accepted its contractors had made errors in not diagnosing 
the subsidence in the first instance. It offered £1,000 to cover the cost of the repointing work 
theyd carried out at its contractors recommendation and a further £1,000 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr D and Ms P werent happy with this. They said theyd had to pay a number of costs 
related to selling the property, which they wouldnt have done if it had been diagnosed with 
subsidence. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought RSA should pay a total of £1,500 compensation and pay 8% simple interest on the 
repointing costs. However he didnt think it fair to ask it to cover the estate agent fees or 
solicitors costs as RSA wasnt directly responsible for these. 
Mr D and Ms P didnt think this was a fair resolution, they said since the claim had been 
accepted theyd found it hard to get hold of RSA and the claim wasnt progressing. They 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to first decide if the business in question got 
something wrong. And where I find it did, I consider the impact this has had on its customer 
in order to determine what it should do to put things right and put the customer back into a 
position they would have been in had the business not made an error.
Here, RSA has accepted it got something wrong. It misdiagnosed the issue causing the 
cracks at Mr D and Ms Ps property at its first two visits. And this was only rectified after they 
attempted to sell the property. So Ive considered the impact this error has had on Mr D and 
Ms P.
Ive first considered what would have happened if the subsidence had been confirmed at the 
first visit. In this case, the claim would have been accepted much earlier and the mitigation, 
monitoring and subsequent repair work would have started and potentially already 
concluded. So it has certainly delayed the issue being addressed.
Further, as a result of the discovery of the subsidence at this stage, the sale of their property 
fell through. Mr D and Ms P have explained that had it gone through then they would have 
been able to pay off their mortgage. Theyve also explained that not being able to move has 
affected where their daughter will be able to enrol into a school and their own plans to get 
married. Further, I can see the error has led to Mr D and Ms P having to get back in touch 
with RSA and theyve had to regularly call and chase it in order to get an answer on whether 
the claim would now be covered.
Based on this, I agree the matter has caused them some significant distress and 
inconvenience. Theyve suffered a loss of expectation around the plans they had for the 
future which would have been very distressing. And, as the subsidence now needs to be 
addressed, they now face a wait in order to rectify the issue. Further, the time theyve spent 
chasing RSA would have been very inconvenient. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that RSA should increase its offer of 
compensation to £1,500 to apologise for this distress and inconvenience.   
Ive also considered what Mr D and Ms P have said about the financial impact of putting their 
property up for sale. It is an unfortunate consequence of structural issues such as 
subsidence, that it can make properties more difficult to sell. And can sometimes impact the 
sale price of the property. There are also many different factors that impact the successful 
sale of a property and the purchase of one in an onward chain. 
If the problem had been discovered on RSAs first visit, Im not persuaded that this would 
have meant that Mr D and Ms P would have been able to sell the property at the price they 
asked for or at the time they wanted to. Essentially the reason the sale of the property fell 
through was because the house was suffering from subsidence and not because RSA failed 
to identify this. And I can only reasonably direct RSA to put right issues that it is directly 
responsible for. And I cant say RSAs actions caused the sale to fall through.
Therefore while I appreciate Mr D and Ms P have had to pay additional fees relating to 
putting the house on the market, this would always have been the case at whatever stage 
they chose to do so. And there is never a guarantee that a house will sell or at what amount. 
I therefore consider the financial costs and losses relating to the house sale to be too remote 
from RSAs actions to hold it responsible for these.However if RSA hadnt misdiagnosed the issue on its initial visits then Mr D and Ms P 
wouldnt have paid to have the walls repointed. I therefore agree that RSA should reimburse 
them the £1,000 it cost to have done. And I agree with our investigator that as theyve been 
without the funds for some time it should add 8% interest on this amount from the date it was 
paid for until RSA pays the settlement. 
I note Mr D and Ms P have said they are now having issues with the claim progressing. As 
part of this complaint, Ive only considered issues up until RSAs final response of April 2022. 
So anything after this will need to be addressed to RSA in the first instance and can be 
brought to this service if Mr D and Ms P remain unhappy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr D and Ms Ps complaint and require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
pay £1,500 compensation.
pay £1,000 to reimburse them for the repointing, plus 8% interest on this amount 
from the date it was paid until settlement is issued.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman