DRN-4112748
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua handled his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr E purchased a car and paid a deposit of £1000 using his Aqua credit card.
Mr E discovered a fault with one of the alloy wheels. He says the merchant agreed to 
refurbish the wheel but when Mr E tried to get the car booked in, the merchant didnt 
respond to his calls.
Mr E raised a chargeback with Aqua. Aqua declined the chargeback. It said the merchant 
had provided evidence that the repairs had been completed.
Mr E remained unhappy and complained to this service. He said the repairs hadnt been 
completed and that if Aqua had contacted him during the investigation than he wouldve 
provided proof that the repairs hadnt been completed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Aqua was correct to decline the 
chargeback because there as insufficient evidence to support a chargeback in line with the 
chargeback rules.
Mr E disagreed. He said that Aqua hadnt requested any further evidence from him and that 
he could prove the damage hadnt been repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required 
and under what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful 
claim for the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit claims, and they will only do so if 
they believe they have evidence that will support a chargeback claim so that it will be 
successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to 
raise a chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mr Es request to raise the chargeback to see whether or not Aqua acted 
reasonably when it declined the chargeback.
Mr E said that despite agreeing to carry out repairs, the merchant failed to do so. 
In September 2022 Aqua requested further evidence from Mr E. In the email, Aqua asked Mr 
E to provide evidence to support the claim such as correspondence with the merchant, 
receipts or invoices, terms and conditions and /or a report from an independent expert.
Aqua didnt hear back from Mr E with any evidence. The merchant subsequently disputed 
the chargeback. Aqua declined the claim based on a lack of evidence.
Mr E has said that Aqua didnt request evidence from him. But he acknowledged receiving 
the email Ive referred to above on the day he made the chargeback claim. Im satisfied that 
Aqua asked Mr E to provide evidence to support the claim, but none was provided.
In the circumstances, I dont think Aqua treated Mr E unfairly here. It has acted in line with 
the chargeback rules.
I appreciate that Mr E has evidence that he wants to reply on in the form of a time stamped 
photo. However, the relevant time period for making a chargeback claim has now passed, so 
its no longer possible to raise a chargeback.
Aqua may be able to consider Mr Es claim under section 75 if Mr E contacts them and 
requests this.
Taking everything into consideration, and for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman