DRN-3759620
The complaint
Ms M complains about Nationwide Building Society and their failure to process a refund into 
her bank account correctly.
What happened
Ms M holds a bank account provided by Nationwide. In early 2022, Ms M used this account 
to purchase items from a retailer, who Ill refer to as X, via a third-party payment service 
operator, who Ill refer to as P.
In March 2022, X issued a refund to Ms M of £986, which was paid back into the account 
she held with P. And P say they processed the refund back into Ms Ms account with 
Nationwide, providing an ARN number as evidence of this.
But this refund didnt arrive in Ms Ms Nationwide account. And she queried this with both 
Nationwide and P, with neither taking responsibility for the missing refund. Ms M was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms M was unhappy that Nationwide had failed to locate her missing refund. She thought 
previous refunds shed received through P had been received and she was unhappy this one 
hadnt. So, she wanted Nationwide to either locate, or refund her, the £986 she was due as 
well as compensation for the upset this had caused.
Nationwide responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think a refund had 
been received from P and so, they thought P were the party responsible for the refund and 
its whereabouts. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything for this aspect of the 
complaint. Ms M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred our complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. At the time they reached their view, 
they hadnt received evidence from Nationwide to show what searches had been completed 
when looking for the funds. So, they didnt think they were able to say Nationwide definitely 
hadnt received the funds and because of this, they thought it was most likely Nationwide 
were responsible. 
Nationwide didnt respond to this initial finding and so, our investigator recommended 
Nationwide pay Ms M the £986 she was missing. Nationwide then provided information that 
they felt supported their position. But our investigators view remained the same, and they 
recommended Nationwide pay Ms M the £986 plus 8% statutory interest from the date it 
shouldve been received to the date of payment. Nationwide didnt respond to this and so, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly how Ive considered the complaint. In this situation, there is no dispute that Ms M is 
without the refund she is owed from X. Instead, the dispute centres around who is 
responsible for the missing funds. And from what I can tell, there has been a transactional 
issue that both Nationwide and P feels is the fault of the other. 
Unfortunately, Im unable to say for certain exactly what has happened, what error has 
occurred or exactly where the funds have gone. So, Ive instead thought about what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based on the evidence thats been made available to me. And 
Ive then used this to decide who I think is responsible for the funds and so, the refund to Ms 
M. And in this situation, I think its Nationwide.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied P released the funds from Ms Ms account with 
them to the card details they had on their system. And these details were for an expired card 
linked to her Nationwide account. Ive seen Nationwide have confirmed to Ms M that when a 
refund is processed onto an expired card, it should still be credited to the linked bank 
account. So, in this situation, I wouldve expected the refund to be processed into Ms Ms 
account with Nationwide. But it hasnt been.
I can see that initially Nationwide didnt provide evidence to our investigator to show which 
searches they undertook to look for Ms Ms funds. But following our investigators view, they 
have provided screenshots, as well as internal emails, and Ive considered these at length.
And I dont dispute this evidence suggests that, through the searches Nationwide have 
conducted so far, theyve been unable to find Ms Ms funds. And this includes using the ARN 
provided by P. So, I can understand why Nationwide would dispute Ps testimony.
But I dont think Nationwide having not located the funds through the searches theyve 
conducted so far means that Nationwide definitively havent received the funds from P. Ive 
evidence to show the funds are no longer in Ms Ms account with P. And these funds went to 
Ms Ms card that linked to her Nationwide account. Had there been an error in this part of the 
process, I wouldve expected P to have received these funds back. But Nationwide havent 
provided any evidence to show that the funds were rejected and returned to P. So, I think P 
completed the part of the process they are responsible for.
I think its clear that the funds have gone missing after leaving the account Ms M held with P. 
And as I think the funds were sent to the correct account by P, I think it follows that 
Nationwide are then responsible for the funds and so, responsible for ensuring Ms M 
receives the refund she is owed. This is because I dont think it would be fair for her to be left 
out of pocket through no fault of her own.
So, using this logic and the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that the 
issue within the transaction occurred at a point in the process that would fall under the 
responsibility of Nationwide, as it wouldve been at a point only they were able to influence 
and rectify. As I think the responsibility for the missing refund is Nationwides, Ive then 
thought about what I think they should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what Nationwide should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Ms M back in the position she wouldve been, had the process ran as it shouldve in the first instance.
In this case, Ms M wouldve received the refund on the same day it was transferred out of 
her account with P. So, as I think Nationwide are responsible for the missing refund, I think 
they should pay Ms M the £986 she wouldve received.
And I think this payment should include 8% statutory interest from 8 March 2022 to the date 
it is paid, to compensate Ms M for the period shes been without access to these funds.
But I dont think Nationwide need to compensate Ms M further than this on this occasion, as 
Ive been unable to ascertain exactly what error occurred and my decision is focused on 
what I think is most likely to have happened. I also dont think it would be fair to Nationwide, 
who I can see have clearly engaged with Ms M in an attempt to locate the funds without 
success at this present time.
Nationwide may still wish to continue with these investigations as there is still a clear 
difference of opinion between them and P. And should Nationwide wish to do so after Ms M 
has received the direction set out within this decision, I would expect Ms M to continue to 
engage with Nationwide where reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Ms complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society, and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms M £986 plus 8% statutory annual interest on this amount from 8 March 2022 
to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman