DRN-3069906
The complaint
Ms P, as director of E, complains about the decision of Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc to 
decline Es business interruption insurance claim, made following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
E had a Nursery Insurance commercial insurance policy, underwritten by Ecclesiastical. The 
policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. E closed its 
premises in March 2020, as a result of the pandemic. And Ms P claimed on the policy. 
Ecclesiastical declined the claim. It said the cover provided by the Prevention of access  
Non-damage extension to the business interruption section of the policy contained an 
exclusion relating to claims caused by an infectious disease. And the Specified Disease 
cover was limited to a specific list of diseases that did not include COVID-19. So, this did not 
cover the claim either. 
Ms P was unhappy with this, and brought Es complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with Ecclesiasticals 
reasoning and said it had acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. Ms P 
remained unsatisfied and so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on E, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover E is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy E took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Es policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Es business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Es claim. And I think 
Ecclesiastical acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Es claim under this area of cover.
The policy does include two extensions which do not require there to be damage and look 
like they might be relevant. I will explain why neither of these actually covers the 
circumstances of Es claim. 
Prevention of access  Non-damage
This extension provides cover for, in part, situations where a relevant authority has taken 
action which has prevented or hindered access to the insureds premises due to an 
emergency. So, it would seem to fit the circumstances around the Governments actions in 
relation to the pandemic where these had a relevant impact on a business. 
However, these actions were taken to control the spread of COVID-19, an infectious 
disease. And the policy says the extension does not cover:
closure or restriction in the use of the premises due to the order or advice of the 
competent local authority as a result of an occurrence of an infectious disease
This wording refers to the actions of a competent local authority, and I note the relevant 
actions were those of the Government. However, the wording used in this policy was 
considered by the High Court in the FCA Test Case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm)). In coming to my decision, I 
am required to take into account, amongst other things, the relevant law and the parts of this 
judgment that were not appealed currently constitute case law that I consider relevant. 
The judgment says at paragraphs 375 to 376 that, in the context of this policy wording:
the phrase competent local authority means whichever authority is competent to 
impose the relevant restrictions in the locality on the use of the premises, including 
central government.

The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
either EIO wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises.
Taking this into account, and considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
Ecclesiastical were entitled to say that this extension did not cover the circumstances of Es 
claim. 
Specified disease
The Specified disease murder food poisoning defective sanitation vermin extension in Es 
policy provides cover for interruption caused by the occurrence of a specified disease 
either at the insureds premises or within 25 miles of those premises. 
However, the extension defines specified disease with a list of certain diseases. And this 
list does not include COVID-19. So, I do not think it covers a claim resulting from this 
disease. 
When reaching this finding, Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Ecclesiastical to include it in 
the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Ecclesiastical intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Ecclesiastical deliberately chose to define specified disease by reference to a 
static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy E has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy E has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of specified disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Es claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Es policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Ecclesiasticals decision to decline the claim 
was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Ecclesiastical should have met Es claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Ms P, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman