DRN-3244579
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked a payment out of her account and then 
placed a block on her account.
What happened
Miss M says she tried to make a payment of £5,100 in January 2021 to another of her 
accounts. She says the payment was blocked and went through HSBCs fraud process. Miss 
M says she was told she could send HSBC identification evidence but was then told she had 
to attend a branch. She says she attended a branch but was sent away as her driving 
licence address hadnt been updated. Miss M says she was late paying her rent as a result 
and took a loan from family members which meant she paid interest on it. She would like 
compensation for what took place.
HSBC says it acted in line with account terms and conditions by blocking the payment when 
it had security concerns. It says it tried to contact Miss M without success and so place a 
block on the account. HSBC says it has listened to the call between it and Miss M and says 
she was told to attend a branch rather than send identification documents. It says it couldnt 
accept the document Miss M provided but did lift the block some days later.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC was entitled to block a payment or account where it had security 
concerns and that it tried to speak to Miss M. The investigator also thought HSBC was 
entitled to reject the driving licence when it contained the wrong address and didnt think 
Miss M had provided evidence of loss in any event.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says the investigator has taken an unfair approach in 
trying to mediate this dispute. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I also 
make clear to Miss M that our role is not to mediate between her and HSBC but to come to 
an independent decision about the merits of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Miss Ms account terms and conditions which I think she would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
HSBC can where it has security concerns block a payment or an account. I am sure Miss M 
appreciate that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies and that they have 
a duty to protect its and its customers money. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by blocking the payment which I think was for a relatively significant amount.
I can see that HSBC tried to contact Miss M straight away and try and find out if the payment 
was legitimate, but it was unable to speak to her. In those circumstances I dont think HSBC 
acted unreasonably where it had such security concerns by blocking Miss Ms account.
I appreciate the call between the parties cant be listened to. But I think it unlikely Miss M 
was told that she could send identification documents to HSBC as I dont think that would 
have alleviated the security concerns. I can see that HSBC has listened to that call and says 
Miss M was told to attend a branch with identification which is what Miss M did do.
I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for Miss M providing an identification document that 
contained an incorrect address. I appreciate that may have caused a delay in the block 
being removed. But I think that was something HSBC didnt have any control over and in 
circumstances where there was a security concern, appreciate why it needed an appropriate 
identification document.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and in line with agreed account terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Miss M says she was forced to borrow money from family with interest being 
repayable. But I cant ask HSBC to refund that money or pay compensation when my overall 
decision is that it didnt make a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman