DRN-3731357
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Shogun 
Finance Limited (SFL) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr E was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with SFL. He paid a deposit of £3,500 and the agreement was for £5,495 over 60 months; 
with monthly repayments of £115.34. At the time the car was around two years old and had 
done 9,000 miles.
In June 2022, Mr E started to have problems with the clutch on the car. At the time the car 
had done around 43,000 miles. And it cost him over £700 to have the repairs done, as it 
wasnt covered under the warranty. He wasnt happy with this, and complained to SFL
SFL investigated the complaint, but didnt think that the problems with the clutch were 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr E. So they didnt think they needed to take any 
action. Mr E wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that there was a fault with the car. But, given the time 
Mr E had been in possession of it, and the mileage itd done, he thought it was most likely 
that the issues with the clutch were as a result of normal wear and tear. And he didnt think 
SFL needed to do anything. He also said that, as Mr E had purchased an extended warranty 
that wasnt covered by the agreement with SFL, he would need to raise his issues about the 
warranty not covering the payments with the warranty company. And he may be able to 
pursue these issues further through The Motor Ombudsman.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the car had originally been used as a 
test vehicle by a dealership, and he provided evidence that the car had been regularly 
serviced. He also said that he believed the warranty on the car was for five years from the 
point of supply. But SFL hadnt assisted him with his warranty claim, so he believed there 
had been collusion and there was a conflict of interest involving all parties. 
Mr E also said that he expected the clutch to last 62,000 miles and five years, but it had 
failed earlier than this. So he believes the clutch wasnt of a sufficient quality when the car 
was supplied.
Because Mr E didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, SFL 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless SFL can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr E to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr E took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask SFL to put this right.
Its not disputed that theres a problem with the clutch on the car supplied to Mr E. I havent 
seen anything, for example an independent engineers report, that shows me there was a 
fault with the clutch when the car was supplied to Mr E. And Mr E was able to use the car for 
around 3 years, and travel over 30,000 miles, before the problem with the clutch became 
apparent. Im satisfied that, if there was a problem with the clutch when the car was 
supplied, then its highly unlikely that the car wouldve been able to be driven for so long, and 
so far, before the fault happened. As such, Im satisfied there wasnt a fault with the clutch 
when the car was supplied to Mr E.
Mr E has said that the manufacturers guidelines say that a clutch should last for 5 years, 
and around 62,000 miles. And the clutch on the car supplied to him failed around 19,000 
miles early. As such, he didnt think the clutch was sufficiently durable.
The clutch is a high wear and tear item. And, while the manufacturer may refer to 62,000 
miles as a guideline for the lifespan of a clutch, the actual lifespan is dependent upon a 
number of different factors i.e. a car thats used for short journeys in heavy traffic will suffer 
more clutch wear than a car thats used for long motorway journeys. And the wear on the 
clutch is also affected by driving style. As such, I dont think that a clutch failing at 43,000 
miles is, in itself, enough to say that the clutch wasnt sufficiently durable.
Ive seen that Mr E was offered the opportunity to have the clutch stripped and inspected to 
identify the reason for failure. And this report would identify any durability issues. However, 
Mr E decided not to have this done, as there was no guarantee that any issues would be 
found that allowed the repairs to be covered by the warranty. While I appreciate his reasons 
for not going ahead with this, without such a report, and given the reasons stated above, Im 
not satisfied there was a durability issue. And, as such, I wont be asking SFL to cover the 
costs of the repairs to the clutch.Mr E has also raised the issue of the warranty he was supplied with for the car, and that it 
didnt cover the cost of the repairs to the clutch. From the evidence Ive seen, the warranty 
was provided by the dealership, and the cost didnt form part of the agreement with SFL. 
As such, the warranty isnt something I can hold SFL responsible for. And Mr E will need to 
raise his issues with the dealership or warranty company direct.
Finally, Mr E has said he believes the dealership breached unfair trading legislation by 
asking him to cover the costs of an inspection. This isnt something we can look into, as this 
wouldnt be classed as an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. And an 
issue of breaching legislation is something that may be more suitable to be considered by 
the courts.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Shogun Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman