DRN-3658518
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a caravan 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Ageas responsible for their act or omissions. 
What happened
In about mid-October 2020, Mrs W moved into a static caravan on a park site in the East of 
England. Mrs W bought a caravan insurance policy. Mrs W gave her correspondence 
address as her sisters address in the Midlands.
Mrs W was faced with the following question:
Is the caravan ever occupied as a permanent residence?
She answered no.
The policy was branded with the name of the insurance intermediary and with the name of 
Ageas, which was the insurer responsible for dealing with any claim.
In mid-October 2021, the policy automatically renewed.  
In January 2022, Mrs W made a claim to Ageas for damage caused by an escape of water in 
the bathroom of the caravan. 
By an email dated early April 2022, Ageas said that Mrs W had made a misrepresentation 
that the caravan was never occupied as a permanent residence. So Ageas said it was 
treating the policy as void from the start and it wouldnt pay the claim.
Mrs W complained to Ageas that it was treating her unfairly. By a final response dated late 
April 2022, Ageas turned down the complaint. It said the intermediary had refunded the 
premiums. Mrs W brought her complaint to us in early May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He referred to 
CIDRA (Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act ). He thought that Ageas 
had fairly avoided the policy.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
There is nothing in the terms and conditions which sets out what is classed as 
'permanent residence'. Nothing is even mentioned about length of occupancy, let 
alone defined.
If she had known her insurance was invalid, she could have sought alternative 
insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Ageas asked Mrs W a clear question whether the caravan was ever 
occupied as a permanent residence.
The caravan was on a park that was open for 11 months a year. As she later said she had  
intended to live there as much as possible, Im satisfied that Mrs W made a careless 
misrepresentation to Ageas that the caravan wasnt ever occupied as a permanent 
residence.
That misrepresentation made a difference to Ageas. Its underwriting evidence is that it 
wouldnt have offered cover if it had known the caravan was a permanent residence. So Im 
satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. And 
CIDRA entitled Ageas to treat the policy as void from the start. 
Theres no suggestion that Mrs W was reckless as to the truth. 
Ageas has said that the intermediary refunded the premiums. Mrs W hasnt disagreed with 
that. So I find that the premiums have been refunded. I consider thats in line with a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
So I dont consider that Ageas treated Mrs W unfairly. I dont conclude that it would be fair 
and reasonable to direct Ageas to treat the policy as valid or to pay the claim or to do any 
more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman