DRN-3514617
The complaint
Mr N complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly closed his credit card and recorded a 
default on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr N had a credit card with Capital One and has explained that his income was heavily 
impacted by the pandemic. In October 2020 Capital One approved a three month payment 
holiday under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Payment Deferral Guidance. That 
meant no payments were required until February 2021. 
In February 2021 Mr N asked Capital One to consider another payment holiday but it was 
turned down. Capital One went on to apply an account restriction to Mr Ns credit card which 
meant it couldnt be used for new spending. 
In June 2021 Mr Ns credit card was closed and a default was reported on his credit file. 
Mr N complained to Capital One but it didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing his credit 
card and recording the default. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ns complaint. 
They thought Capital One had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr N asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA Payment Deferral Guidance allowed businesses to offer up to two payment 
holidays of three months to customers that were impacted by the pandemic. Mr N has 
explained that he works in an industry that was particularly affected which meant he was 
unable to maintain payments at that time. But Mr N has told us this was a temporary 
situation and that he was willing to start repayments when his work returned. 
Its unclear why Capital One didnt approve the second payment holiday request Mr N made. 
The FCA guidance says lenders shouldve considered follow up requests before declining 
them. And I understand Mr Ns point that his work was affected by the pandemic. Like the 
investigator, Ive considered whether the decision not to approve the second payment 
holiday unfairly impacted Mr N. 
Had the second payment holiday been approved, it wouldve run between February and April 
2021. Mr N wouldve had to start making his full contractual monthly payment and reached 
an agreement to clear the outstanding amounts that accrued during the payment holiday in 
order to have avoided account closure and default. But Mr N spoke with Capital One in the 
period shortly before his credit card was closed and defaulted but didnt offer to make any 
payments or reach an arrangement to clear the arrears. 
Mr Ns explained he intended to repay and close his credit card once able to return to work. 
But the information Ive seen indicates he wasnt in a position to do so following six months 
of the original payment holiday request in October 2020. So whilst I agree Capital One ought 
to have considered a second payment holiday, I havent found its failure to do so unfairly 
impacted Mr Ns overall situation. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr N, but as Im satisfied Capital One dealt with his complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman