DRN-3836949
The complaint
This complaint arises out of an interest-only mortgage Mr and Mrs P have, originally taken 
out in 2007 with another lender but now owned by Oakwood Homeloans Limited (Oakwood). 
They say that the mortgage was mis-sold by an independent financial adviser, as they 
werent told theyd need a repayment vehicle for the mortgage. The mortgage term has now 
reached an end and Oakwood has obtained a possession order. Mr and Mrs P want more 
time to make arrangements to repay the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P have also complained about fees and charges added to the account and want 
these to be reimbursed.
The complaint has been dealt with by Mr P throughout on behalf of himself and Mrs P.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Whats happened isnt really in dispute, as 
the main issue is whether Oakwood is treating Mr and Mrs P fairly. I will therefore 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs P being 
identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2007, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, Mr and Mrs P took 
out a mortgage with a lender Ill call G, which was subsequently transferred to Oakwood. Mr 
and Mrs P borrowed a total of £117,695 over a term of 15 years on an interest-only basis.
The mortgage offer dated 24 October 2006 and annual mortgage statements sent every year 
after the mortgage completed on 1 April 2007 state that this is an interest-only mortgage and 
that separate arrangements need to be made to repay the capital at the end of the mortgage 
term.
From 2015 onwards Oakwood reminded Mr and Mrs P on an annual basis that the mortgage 
term was due to end on 3 November 2021 and of the need for them to make sure they had a 
repayment plan in place. The mortgage wasnt repaid in November 2021. Oakwood was 
granted a possession order by the courts, but has postponed enforcement of the order while 
we consider the complaint.
A complaint was made because Mr and Mrs P were unhappy that Oakwood wouldnt grant 
them a term extension until November 2023. Oakwood said it had noted the documents Mr P 
had provided about his pension, which he could access in 2023. However, none of these 
suggested that there would be a lump sum available to pay off the mortgage. As a result, 
Oakwood wasnt able to uphold the complaint.
Mr P complained to our service, not just about the end of the mortgage term, but about 
mis-sale of the mortgage and about fees and charges added to the account. Oakwood didnt 
consent to us looking at anything that had happened more than six years before the 
complaint had first been raised, which was May 2022.
An investigator looked at the time limits and was satisfied that we could only consider events 
arising since May 2016. He noted the broker was no longer trading and so any complaint 
about mis-sale would need to be made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
The investigator was satisfied we could consider fees and charges applied after May 2016, 
and about whether Oakwood had fairly considered Mr and Mrs Ps request for a mortgage 
term extension.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the limits of our powers, so the investigator went on to look at those 
matters that are within our jurisdiction. He reviewed the details of fees and charges applied 
to the account since May 2016. He was satisfied that eight arrears fees of £50 each (a total 
of £400) should be refunded to the account. Thats because a full or partial repayment had 
been made for the months those fees were charged. The investigator noted that Oakwood 
had, in fact, already agreed to refund those fees.
In relation to the term extension, the investigator didnt think Oakwood had acted unfairly. He 
noted that the pension information provided didnt show any available lump sum, nor the 
date this would be available. In the circumstances, the investigator didnt uphold this part of 
the complaint.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He provided details of his pension and said he could take a 25% lump sum in 
November 2023, when he would be 55 years of age. He thought it was only fair for Oakwood 
to grant an extension until then.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale: Oakwood didnt sell the mortgage and I understand that the broker who did so is 
no longer trading. Any concerns about the sale of the mortgage or the advice Mr and Mrs P 
were given at the time will need to be raised with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.
Account fees: Ive reviewed the fees and charges on the account since May 2016. The 
account has been in arrears for some years, as a result of which Oakwood applied fees and 
charges in line with its tariff. 
I note Oakwood has already agreed to refund eight £50 fees for the months listed below. 
November 2017
March 2020
April 2021
August 2021
September 2021March 2022
April 2022
May 2022
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable and Im not ordering Oakwood to refund any further 
fees.
Term extension: Oakwoods policy is that, where there are mortgage arrears (as there are 
here), any term extension can only be granted on a capital repayment basis. But given that 
Mr P said he could access a pension lump sum from November 2023, Oakwood agreed to 
consider a term extension. Oakwood is required to treat customers fairly, and I think that it 
was reasonable for Oakwood to consider Mr and Mrs Ps proposals.
The pension information we have been provided with suggests that Mr P may be able to take 
a lump sum from his pension. At October 2021 the pension had a transfer value of just over 
£458,500. Mr P says he can access the fund when he is 55, which will not be until November 
2023 and take a 25% lump sum. But other documentation provided shows only annual 
pension projections, with no available lump sum. Im therefore not persuaded that Oakwood 
was provided with sufficiently compelling evidence of a lump sum payment that could pay off 
the mortgage. Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable of Oakwood to decline a term 
extension.
But Mr P knew  and had known since at least 2015 (because he was being reminded of it 
regularly by Oakwood)  that the mortgage term would expire in November 2021. Despite 
this, Mr and Mrs P didnt take any steps to put any alternative repayment plan in place so 
they could repay the mortgage by the end of the contractual term. I cant hold Oakwood 
responsible for this  it was up to Mr and Mrs P to make sure they had a plan in place to pay 
off the mortgage. I think it was unrealistic for Mr and Mrs P to rely on a projected pension 
that wouldnt be available until two years after the mortgage term has expired as their 
intended repayment strategy.
Im therefore not persuaded Oakwood has acted unreasonably in relation to the term 
extension.
Further points
I note Oakwood has been granted possession of the property and has already postponed 
one warrant of eviction while we consider this complaint. The court has already decided that 
Oakwood is entitled to possession of the property; I dont have any power to overturn that, or 
vary the terms of the court order  only the court which granted the order is able to do so.
The implications of this for Mr and Mrs P are that, if they want Oakwood to postpone taking 
any further action to recover the outstanding debt until November 2023, they will need to do 
this through the court. If I were to tell Oakwood not to take any further action when a court 
has already granted possession, I would be acting outside my powers. 
This brings me to my final point. Lenders will generally put recovery action on hold whilst we 
look at a complaint, but they dont have to, and we cant force them to; if the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between the parties 
to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring 
complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate 
action to recover money owed to them. I would not want Mr and Mrs P to be under any 
misunderstanding that, if they were to bring another complaint to us about the mortgage or 
the expiry of the term, that we would tell Oakwood to suspend recovery action.I am explaining this because I think its important that Mr and Mrs P are aware that the 
extent to which our service might be able to assist them in the future is very limited. We 
simply arent able to interfere in any legal action by Oakwood to take possession of the 
property where the court has already decided Oakwood is entitled to possession.  A request 
to suspend any future eviction would need to be done through the courts. Mr and Mrs P 
might find it helpful to take some legal advice about their position; as I understand it, the 
courts powers to suspend possession where a mortgage term has expired are very limited 
indeed. I do not intend to cause any distress to Mr and Mrs P, but I think its important that 
they do not underestimate the seriousness of the position they are in.
If Mr and Mrs P would like us to, we can provide them with details for free advisory services 
such as Citizens Advice or Shelter. I sincerely hope Mr and Mrs P are able to resolve the 
matter with Oakwood without the need for any further legal action, but for the reasons given 
above, I dont think Oakwood has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman