DRN-1458103
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy with the 
valuation it placed on his car after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his car insurance policy and Admiral valued it at £3000. But Mr W 
thought  his car was worth about £5000, so he complained to Admiral. It maintained its 
position, so he complained to this service as well. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He explained how 
this service looks into valuation complaints and that he had considered the various trade 
valuation guides in forming his view. But as they were in line with Admirals valuation he 
didnt think that it had done anything wrong.
As Mr W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr W feels his car is worth more than Admiral has offered, especially 
as one of the trade guides he looked at suggests the car is worth more. I know that Admiral 
got to a different valuation when it used the same guide as Mr W, but from what Ive seen Mr 
Ws trade guide valuation feels and looks right. But Ive looked at the various trade guides 
and it would appear that the guide Mr W has relied on is out of line with the other guides. So, 
although I can understand Mr Ws position, I cant say that Admiral has acted unreasonably.
It is very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt my position to look to value Mr Ws 
car. But, when looking at valuations placed on cars by insurance companies, I look to see if 
they have acted fairly. I consider the approach they have adopted and decide whether or not 
the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
I pay particular attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars, as well as other 
evidence provided by both parties. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale 
of similar cars; although I place a lot less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides, 
as cars dont normally sell for the price at which they are advertised. I must emphasise that I 
will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I can understand why Mr W is unhappy about the valuation provided, especially as one of 
the guides provides a higher value than the others. But, as the investigator has explained, 
this guide is significantly out of line with the other valuations and so our approach is to look 
at the other guides as they are more consistent. Indeed, even if an average of all the guides 
were used then the valuation provided would be similar to the offer Admiral have made  so it is difficult to argue that its offer is unreasonable.
Ive looked at the valuations provided, and they have all taken account of the various 
modifications to Mr Ws car so I cant say Admiral has acted unreasonably in relying on the 
other guides. Indeed, Admiral has offered a valuation in line with the highest of the three 
other guides, so I cant say it has acted unreasonably as it couldve offered a lower amount 
but chose not to. I know Mr W feels that the trade guide valuations dont align with the real-
world selling prices  but the evidence from the other guides suggests otherwise. And I know 
Mr W feels that his car is becoming a classic, but his policy wasnt a classic car policy or 
agreed value policy and simply provides a market value settlement. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W as he clearly feels his car is worth a lot 
more than Admiral has offered him. However, as Ive already stated it isnt my role to value 
Mr Ws car, but to look to see if Admiral has acted reasonably. And from the evidence before 
me I think it offered a fair market value for Mr Ws car in line with the trade guide valuations.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman