DRN-1822138
The complaint
Ms R has complained about Society of Lloyds decision to cancel her motorhome insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Ms R lives abroad having previously lived in the UK. She planned a year long trip back to the 
UK and Europe travelling by motorhome. In August 2019 Ms R arranged insurance through 
a broker for the motorhome she intended to use. 
By October 2019 Ms R had been involved in three incidents resulting in damage to the 
motorhome. Ms R says the incidents were minor. 
In October 2019 Lloyds made the decision not to continue insuring Ms R. So it gave Ms R 
notice of cancellation. Two weeks later it cancelled Ms Rs policy  on 14 November 2019. 
Ms R complained to Lloyds. She said she couldnt find alternative insurance elsewhere due 
to the cancellation and claims history. This meant she was unable to continue with her trip as 
planned and she was concerned that she couldnt obtain fire and theft cover while the 
motorhome was in storage. 
But Lloyds said it had acted in line with the policy. It arranged for a refund of half of the 
premium Ms R had paid for the policy, although she had claimed against it. 
Ms R asked us to look at her complaint. She wanted Lloyds to reverse the cancellation and 
continue to provide cover.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted reasonably. She said Lloyds had given more 
than the required notice to cancel and had fairly applied a general exclusion under the 
policy. And it had provided a refund of half the premium, outside of the policy terms as a 
claim had been made. 
Ms R didnt agree. She believes Lloyds and other insurance companies should be more 
transparent about its underwriting criteria so that she would have known of the possibility of 
the policy being cancelled before she bought it. She said she probably wouldnt have 
claimed each time if shed been aware of the consequences. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether Lloyds has acted reasonably, Ive looked at what the policy says 
and whether its followed the cancellation process in a fair way. 
Ms Rs policy with Lloyds says it can decide to cancel the policy provided it gives seven 
days notice. Lloyds provides a list of reasons under which it can do this, one of which is a 
change in circumstances in which it can no longer provide cover. 
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. This means it doesnt have to 
share it with customers. I understand Ms R doesnt agree. But we cannot interfere with an 
underwriters decision. However, we can ask to see its criteria so that we can be satisfied the 
insurer has treated a customer fairly and as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances. 
In this case, due to the number of claims made against Ms Rs policy within such a short 
period of time, the risk was well beyond the appetite of the insurer to continue cover. This is 
the reason Lloyds gave Ms R for its decision to cancel her policy. It said the change in Ms 
Rs circumstances meant it was no longer able to provide cover. 
I understand that the impact of Lloyds decision was significant for Ms R. But I cant say that 
it acted unreasonably. I think it gave Ms R sufficient notice of cancellation and the reasons 
why in line with the policy. And although the policy says if a claim has been made, there will 
be no refund of premium, Lloyds refunded half of the yearly premium to Ms R. I think this 
was reasonable.
Ms Rs policy says she must notify it of any incidents or accidents. This is a very common 
term in all insurance policies Ive seen. 
I appreciate that Ms R is very disappointed with Lloyds decision to cancel her policy. But I 
think it acted in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman