DRN-3809411
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Vitality Corporate Services Limiteds administration of a reward 
scheme related to some personal insurance products and credit agreements. 
What happened
Vitality offer personal protection insurance products  for example, life assurance. As part of 
these products, Vitality run a points and rewards scheme. Points are gained by customers 
completing activities linked in some way to maintaining good health. Those points can then 
be applied to Vitalitys own products, or for discounts on third party products and services. 
Mrs D has been part of this points and rewards scheme since March 2020, when she bought 
some life and health insurance products from Vitality. Her experience though hasnt been a 
smooth one. Records from Vitality show frequent contact from Mrs D to ensure her points 
are being gained when they should. 
The responses from Vitality cover a range of solutions. Sometimes theyve explained the 
terms that apply to a particular point gaining activity or reward. Other times theyve explained 
the technical steps needed to get the various technologies involved to work properly. And 
sometimes theyve given Mrs D points to credit her for an activity otherwise not recorded by 
the various systems involved. 
Part of Mrs Ds complaint is that Vitality should have better systems in place, so that she has 
a smoother experience when gaining and using points. 
Another part of Mrs Ds complaint relates to two rewards under the scheme that have used 
credit agreements to pay for goods or services. The points gained from Mrs Ds activities can 
lead to Vitality making the regular payments towards these agreements on Mrs Ds behalf. 
But she needs to gain a particular level of points first. 
Part of the points system is based on the heart rate Mrs D achieves when exercising. 
Various devices it seems can be used to gather this data. Vitality have a reward offering a 
specific brand of watch that can monitor heart rates. In her complaint, Mrs D feels this is only 
reasonable if the specific product can gather the data as needed for Vitalitys points scheme. 
Mrs D has found otherwise. Her complaint highlights an issue she has getting the watch to 
keep an accurate record of her heart rate while swimming. This  she feels  has led to her 
getting fewer points than she should from the activities shes completed. Vitality havent 
accepted that position, and declined to take the watch back when Mrs D wasnt happy with it. 
Our investigator considered these details. He felt Vitalitys actions to put problems right as 
they occurred were a reasonable solution, and nothing further was needed. And he felt 
Vitality werent responsible for the watch not working as Mrs D had hoped it would. 
Mrs D didnt agree with that view. She particularly felt that more thought should be given to 
the watch having been bought under a credit agreement. She also highlighted the issue 
wasnt that the watch was faulty  but rather than it didnt record what was needed for 
Vitalitys point awarding processes. 
Unresolved, this case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to direct Vitality do any more to resolve this complaint. 
Providing a points and rewards system isnt  of itself  a regulated financial activity. It does 
link to Vitalitys insurance business here, so I can consider a complaint about it. But there 
arent any specific rules from Vitalitys regulator about how such a scheme should be run.
For example, theres no rule saying the watch Vitality offered in its rewards scheme should 
record heart rates accurately in every possible activity that could contribute to the points 
scheme. The heart rate tracking the watch offers isnt its only attractive feature. I consider it 
reasonable for Vitality to offer it as a reward of itself, separate to its use towards gaining 
points. It doesnt have to be a fully integrated part of the points scheme. 
The use of a credit agreement here isnt directly relevant either. Mrs Ds credit agreement  
not directly with Vitality  was to purchase a watch. Mrs D has received that watch, and has 
told us she doesnt consider it to be faulty. So I dont see the rules around credit agreements 
entitle Mrs D to give the watch back to cancel the agreement. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds expectation that shed earn the points needed to have Vitality pay for 
the watch was a factor in her decision making. But any inability of the watch to record an 
accurate heart rate wouldnt stop her from achieving her aims some other way. Vitalitys 
points scheme allows a few different devices to be used to gather the data needed to gain 
points. So I dont think Vitality needed to anticipate Mrs Ds specific expectations here  that 
the watch would be completely effective for gathering heart rate data while swimming  
when offering it in the reward scheme. 
Where Ive been more inclined to uphold Mrs Ds complaint has been her ongoing issues 
gaining her points using the software Vitality provide to support the points scheme. There 
seem to be a relatively high number of contacts between Mrs D and Vitality about this.
But within that contact I note two things. Firstly, some of the issues were solved by simply 
explaining the particular process the software needed Mrs D to follow to credit her with 
points. Things like waiting a set amount of time for a system to update. Or making sure 
applications had been opened in a particular order. 
I feel the explanations given at those times show not every issue Mrs D had was due to a 
failing by Vitality. 
The other factor then is that where there does seem to have been a failing in Vitalitys 
systems, theyve taken steps to put things right at the time. That removes the need for me to 
direct Vitality to do much more for those specific problems. 
I appreciate Mrs D would want Vitality to improve their service going forward. To make 
changes that design out the technical issues shes encountered. I believe Vitality already 
have systems for reviewing and improving their service. Internal feedback processes have 
been mentioned a couple of times in their communications with Mrs D. That ongoing work should  in time  achieve improvements. So  without oversight of the 
technical side of Vitalitys points scheme  Im not going to try to step in and tell Vitality how 
to change their service. Itll simply be for Mrs D to decide whether shes happy with Vitalitys 
service and its pace of development, and whether she wishes to keep paying for it.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman