DRN-2704013
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited applied a market value reduction 
(MVR) to her pension plan.
What happened
In 1989 Mrs J took out a personal pension with NPI which was later transferred to 
Phoenix Life and invested her funds in unit-linked and with-profit funds.
Phoenix Life say their records show her policy was sold by an independent financial advisor.
In 2019 as Mrs J approached her 60th birthday she contacted Phoenix Life to transfer the 
benefits of her pension in order to release tax-free cash and buy an annuity. Phoenix Life 
gave her a quote that showed her pension savings as £38,782.78 but applied an MVR of 
£5,597.68. So, her total pension savings after deductions were £33,185.10. The quote also 
showed the MVR free date as Mrs Js 65th birthday.
Mrs J was unhappy with Phoenix Lifes quote and so made a complaint. Mrs J said that all of 
her correspondence since she took out the policy in 1989 had said the value of the fund 
could be taken at her retirement date which was her 60th birthday. And so, she didnt think an 
MVR should be applied to the policy. 
In their response, Phoenix Life said as Mrs Js pension was invested in the unitised with 
profit fund, the terms and conditions stated they could apply a MVR if the benefits were 
taken before the age of 65. They included a copy of the terms and conditions they said were 
from Mrs Js pension plan and highlighted the relevant sections. Phoenix Life said that Mrs J 
had been given statements in recent years that mention the MVR and gave quotes both with 
and without the MVR being applied. 
Mrs J remained unhappy with Phoenix Lifes response so brought her complaint to us. 
She also went ahead with transferring her pension. Our investigator said Phoenix Life had 
correctly applied an MVR in line with the terms and conditions of the pension plan. And while 
Mrs J said shed never received a copy of the terms and conditions, our investigator said on 
balance, it was likely Phoenix Life had sent the documents to Mrs J at the outset of the plan.
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator and provided copies of documents she said she 
received when taking out the plan in 1989. Mrs J says that she wasnt ever told her pension 
would be reduced if she took the benefits at age 60. As Mrs J didnt agree, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether the terms and conditions Phoenix Life sent us were the correct 
terms and conditions for Mrs Js pension as she says they dont match the documents she 
was given.
Where the information and evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
From the paperwork Mrs J sent us, I can see that she opened a Spectrum personal pension 
plan with NPI in 1989 (which was later transferred to Phoenix Life). The terms and conditions 
document Phoenix Life sent is for the Spectrum personal pension and has a date stamp in 
the footer of the document of 01/89. The document is also consistent with the funds and 
features of Mrs Js plan. So, on balance, I think the document is the correct one for Mrs Js 
plan.
Ive then considered whether the terms and conditions allowed for an MVR to be applied to 
Mrs Js plan at the age of 60. Sections 15 (a) (ii) and 17 (i) of the terms say;
if the member has not attained age 65 at the date of cancellation the value of any 
calculated units in the with-profit fund will be determined by the Actuary.
Therefore, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed for an actuary to calculate the 
valuation of the units Mrs J held. Its common practice to now refer to that calculation as an 
MVR or market value adjustment (MVA) depending on the outcome of the calculation.
However, just because something is in the terms and conditions of a policy doesnt always 
mean its fair and reasonable to apply those terms. So, Ive considered whether it was fair, in 
Mrs Js specific circumstances to apply an MVR.
Mrs J says that she was unaware that accessing her benefits at age 60 meant the possibility 
of an MVR being applied. Thats because when Mrs J took out the plan in 1989 she says it 
was always her intention to claim the benefits at age 60. Phoenix Life say that Mrs Js policy 
was sold to her by an independent financial advisor. So, I dont think it was Phoenix Lifes 
responsibility to ensure the product being sold was suitable for Mrs J. It was the 
responsibility of the financial advisor to ensure the plan met Mrs Js objectives. 
Mrs J provided us with several documents she was given in 1989. While the documents 
dont include the wording from the terms and conditions to say the funds could be valued by 
the actuary, I cant reasonably say they include any wording that would prevent Phoenix Life 
from applying the MVR either. 
Phoenix Life say the terms and conditions document would have been given to Mrs J when 
she took out the policy. As that was more than 30 years ago, theres little evidence to show 
whether or not Mrs J was provided with the terms and conditions. But its common practice 
to provide customers with the terms and conditions of a pension plan. And while I appreciate 
Mrs J says she never received it, I think its likely Phoenix Life provided a copy to her. And 
had she not received it, Mrs J could have requested a copy at a later date. 
MVRs were relatively rare before 2001, so while the terms and conditions of the plan 
allowed for it, I wouldnt necessarily expect Phoenix Life to have highlighted the possibility of 
an MVR until the later years of Mrs Js plan. Phoenix Life have provided the annual 
statements they sent to Mrs J going back to 2011. In all the statements it says;
An MVR may be used to reduce the claim value of a plan where the current value of 
a plan is greater than the plan's fair share of the underlying investments.an MVR does not apply in some circumstances and you should ensure you 
check your policy document for details.
So, I think Phoenix Life gave Mrs J fair chance to investigate whether an MVR would be 
applicable, and the reason why its applied. 
In the annual statements Phoenix Life sent, it recorded an assumed pension date as 
Mrs Js 60th birthday. I can appreciate this may have added to Mrs Js belief that her pension 
was to be taken at age 60 without a reduction but to be clear, the MVR isnt any kind of 
penalty. Its designed to protect the interests of everyone invested in that fund. Its applied to 
ensure that the benefit being given isnt unfairly higher than the plans share of the value of 
the underlying assets in the fund. Mrs Js benefits could be taken at any age over 55 so I 
dont think it was unreasonable to have an assumed pension date at aged 60. But an MVR 
wouldnt be applicable if shed taken her benefits after age 65.
When Mrs J came to transfer her benefits at age 60, Phoenix Life sent her quotes that 
clearly set out the level of MVR being applied to her funds and the date at which Mrs J could 
choose to take her funds without an MVR. But Mrs J still chose to transfer her benefits in the 
knowledge that an MVR would be applied to her fund.
In summary, the terms and conditions allowed for an MVR to be applied to the plan if the 
benefits were taken before age 65. Phoenix Life gave Mrs J fair warning that an MVR could 
be applied to her plan. And when the time came, they clearly showed the level of MVR being 
applied before Mrs J decided to transfer her benefits. So, I dont think Phoenix Life acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by applying an MVR to Mrs Js pension plan.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman