DRN-3218506
The complaint
Mr D complained when American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) registered a 
default with the credit reference agencies because of arrears resulting from the impact of the 
global pandemic.
What happened
Mr D held a credit card account with Amex. He contacted Amex in April 2020 as his financial 
circumstances had been impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. He applied for a 
payment holiday on his account. Amex agreed his application and provided a payment 
holiday for three months between April and June 2020. Despite this, Mr D continued to make 
payments to his credit card account.
Mr D called Amex again in June 2020. He told Amex that his financial situation hadnt 
improved and asked them to provide a further three-month payment holiday. But Amex 
wouldnt agree to this. This meant Mr D needed to recommence payments to his credit card. 
Mr D continued to make payments to his credit card account, as he was able. But these 
were not always for the minimum amount required. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the lack of support from Amex. So, he complained to them. He was 
unhappy they were reporting adverse information about him to the credit reference agencies. 
Amex didnt agree theyd done anything wrong here. 
Given his financial circumstances, Mr D approached a debt management company for 
advice and support. They assessed his situation and agreed to arrange a debt management 
programme for him. 
On 1 December 2020, the debt management company wrote to Amex, on Mr Ds behalf. 
They provided details of Mr Ds financial circumstances and explained that he was entering a 
debt management plan. They offered monthly payments of £7.07. Amex agreed to accept 
the payments.
Having been advised of Mr Ds situation, Amex issued a default notice to Mr D in early 
December 2020. They then issued a Final Demand and Notice of Termination of his 
account. This resulted in the management of Mr Ds account with them being transferred to a 
debt collection agency.
Mr D complained again to Amex. He was unhappy they hadnt agreed a further payment 
holiday when hed asked for it. He also said he hadnt received a default notice from them, 
and this had been reported on his credit file. Amex didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. 
They said the payment holiday wasnt a viable long-term solution, so they werent able to 
offer this again. They explained that because theyd become aware of his longer-term 
financial difficulties, they passed his account to a specialist team. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Amexs reply. So, he asked this service to investigate matters for 
him. One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ds complaint. Our adjudicator thought that 
Amex had responded fairly to Mr Ds complaint and didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, 
Mr Ds complaint has been referred to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expected to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on 
the consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
When Mr D approached Amex in April 2020, he explained his circumstances and Amex 
agreed to provide a three-month deferral of his contracted payments. But, when he returned 
to them in June 2020, they were unwilling to extend this further. Amex told Mr D that when a 
customer tells them theyre in financial difficulties, theyre no longer able to offer this type of 
relief.
The FCAs guidance suggests that payment deferrals should only be made available where 
payment difficulties are temporary. Amex thought Mr Ds financial problems didnt appear to 
be temporary. Amex were entitled to reach that conclusion as it appeared Mr D may have 
struggled to restart his contractual payments on a sustainable basis beyond the three 
months applied for. So, I cant fairly say that Amex did anything wrong here.
Where a COVID payment deferral isnt possible, but Amex are aware of financial difficulties, 
I would expect them to consider offering alternative support and help. The rules and 
guidance relating to this are included in the FCAs handbook under CONC 7.3.
CONC 7.3.4 says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to say Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would 
include:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
(2)allowing deferment of payment of arrears
(3)accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock
Amexs file notes suggest that an option to freeze Mr Ds account and suspend interest and 
charges was discussed with him in October 2020. But Mr D didnt want to do this. He was 
concerned about any impact it might have on his credit file. Mr D continued to request a 
further payment deferral. He believed his income would improve from contracts he was 
hoping to secure. But Amex werent willing to agree to this and I understand why they might 
reach that decision here. There was nothing available to support what Mr D thought might 
happen.
Mr D wasnt happy when Amex issued a default notice and ultimately terminated his account 
with them. The offer made by the debt management company on Mr Ds behalf may have 
been accepted by Amex, but this didnt meet the requirements of their credit card conditions. So, I dont think Amex did anything wrong when they issued a default notice. And on the 
basis Mr D wasnt able to comply with that notice, I think Amex needed to register this with 
the credit reference agencies in order to meet their obligations as set by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr D has expressed concerns about the support that is available to help him through the 
financial difficulties he experienced as a result of the global pandemic. As an alternative 
dispute resolution organisation, it isnt the role of this service to set policies or guidance for 
regulated businesses. Such responsibilities sit firmly with the FCA. But it is our role to 
consider whether Amex acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with him.
I realise Mr D may not agree, but I cant reasonably say that Amex did anything wrong in 
reporting his account to the credit reference agencies. I also think they tried to offer 
alternative support to Mr D by freezing his account and suspending interest and charges. But 
Mr D wasnt willing to agree to this. So, I shant be asking Amex to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman