DRN-3317159
The complaint
Mr F complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr F had a Timeshare type agreement which he wanted to get out of. 
Around that time he came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services and it could get him out of the timeshare agreement for a fee. Ill 
call this Firm A. So Mr F paid Firm A by credit card two transactions to a total of just over 
£1400. He also made a bank transfer in relation to this service to an accountancy firm for 
over £5000. All in all he paid £6525.75 to get out of his timeshare.
Mr F managed to get himself out of the timeshare himself in 2016. He says he never 
received any services or refund from Firm A. Over time he became aware of many others in 
the same situation with Firm As and others like it. So he complained to Capital One in 2019.
Capital One considered the matter and decided that it didnt have any liability in these 
circumstances and told Mr F it wouldnt be giving him any refund in relation to the money he 
lost.
Mr F feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter but found that Capital One hadnt treated him unfairly in its handling of 
the matter. Mr F still hasnt had his money back and is still unhappy and accordingly this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm A or other firms Mr F dealt with 
in his efforts to extricate himself from the Timeshare. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. It is solely about what Capital One did or didnt do 
in relation to its obligations under certain legislation. And it should be remembered Capital 
One are only involved in this issue because its managed Mr Fs credit card account which he 
used to make some of these transactions to another party.
I should add that Ive little doubt about Mr Fs comments that he has been conned into 
making these payments to get out of his timeshare and it was actually a complex fraud. But 
Capital One can only be held responsible for what it has done or should have done or under 
any obligations it has. Its liability is not endless or total. I note from many of the 
representations made it seems the issue of how Capital One treated Mr F hasnt been at the 
forefront of Mr Fs representatives arguments. But this is the crux of this complaint and the 
only matter I can decide upon here. I hope that this is sufficiently clear to Mr F and his 
representatives.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr F his complaint 
about Capital One fails. I shall explain why. There are two possible avenues for Capital One 
in such disputes. Either contesting the transactions under the Chargeback process operated 
by the card scheme or by being liable under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
could Capital One challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr F does 
here, Capital One (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt Capital One here).
I dont think Capital One couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr F didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given that Mr F freely accepts he made part of his overall payment 
for this service from Firm A by using his Capital One credit card. And Im not persuaded it 
has been wrongly applied to his account.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on these timeframes and I can 
see that between when Mr F made the transaction in 2015 and when he raised the issue 
with Capital One in 2019 there is a substantial time span. And this timespan is significantly 
outside the timeframes set out in these particular card scheme rules. As it is so far out of 
time and thus didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think Capital One has 
treated Mr F unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a dispute here. 
So I dont think Mr F has lost out here because of what Capital One did in relation to 
Chargeback.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? (CCA)
Mr F used his credit card with Capital One for some of the transactions. This means Capital 
One has certain responsibilities to Mr F which arise from the relevant law, specifically, 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into 
great detail about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr 
F to hold Capital One liable for breaches of contract by Firm A, or misrepresentations made 
by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a 
breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to 
under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and 
transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. This legislation has the effect of meaning that 
not only could Capital One be held responsible for the transactions it was party to, but also 
the balance transfer it wasnt party to and also any applicable consequential loss.
It is clear that Mr F is very much of the opinion that Firm breached the contract made and 
particularly made misrepresentations to him which led to him losing out. But before deciding 
on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in 
the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests 
is around financial limits and having considered these I think on balance that Mr Fs claim 
meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who must send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who must provide what was purchased to the debtor)This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr F and his 
representatives say that the DCS relationship is in place so Capital One can be held liable 
for any breach of contract by Firm A.
However it is clear that although Mr F has provided the contract he had with Firm A he 
actually paid a different company the money using his credit card. Ill call the company he 
paid Firm B. The fact that he paid Firm B is supported by his Capital One credit card 
statement which shows Firm B and not Firm A as the recipients of the payments in question. 
Firm B is also shown on the receipts he has from the transaction. So clearly there is a fourth 
party here and so DCS appears on the face of it to not be in place.
However the Act also provides under Section 187 that consumer credit agreement shall be 
treated as entered into under pre-existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if 
it is entered into in accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
And subsection 4 states goes on to explain that persons are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
And Associates are tightly defined in section 184 of the Act. This definition includes a 
number of sub-definitions, of which the most likely to be made out in this case due to what 
we know is the following:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a)if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons 
who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the 
other.
Ive considered this definition and surrounding relevant parts of the legislation and Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that Firm A and Firm B were associates as under this strict 
definition. Nor have I seen persuasive evidence that Firm B acted as a payment processor 
for Firm A. So Im satisfied that DCS is not intact here. And accordingly Capital One cannot 
be held responsible for these losses irrespective of whether breach of contract or 
misrepresentation can be made out.
Mr Fs representatives have made some arguments which I shall address for clarity. It points 
to evidence which shows Firm A and Firm B both act as agents for another Firm (Firm C). 
It also has provided evidence which shows that Firm A and Firm B share address, 
accountants, paperwork, phone numbers and a number of other apparently similar shared 
facilities. I dont dispute this. However none of these arguments evidence the required 
definition of Associate is met.
I note that Mr Fs representatives havent sought to provide evidence of who the controllers 
are of the Firms or to make the arguments about Associates at the crux of this matter. For 
this complaint to have been successful there would need to be persuasive evidence of who 
the controllers were of these Firms and that there was persuasive evidence of them fulfilling 
the criteria for Associates in order for DCS to be made out. This service has considered this 
matter deeply through the lens of this complaint and of similar complaints and the required 
level of evidence hasnt been found or submitted by Mr Fs representatives as you would 
expect. Accordingly there is no persuasive evidence that Capital One has treated Mr F unfairly. And as I set out at length at the beginning of this decision I have to be persuaded 
that Capital One have treated Mr F unfairly here for it to be held liable. And Im not 
persuaded that there is persuasive evidence to show that Capital One should have come to 
a different conclusion in its review of this claim.
Mr Fs representatives state that We have proved that (Firm A) and (Firm B) even share the 
same bank account, and you claim this shows there is no link between them?. The 
evidence that they have put forward simply doesnt demonstrate that the requirements in the 
Act have been met. The fact that there is some sort of linkage between firms is not in 
dispute. But for this complaint to be upheld against Capital One I have to be persuaded that 
it has done something wrong in its consideration of the claim put to it under the Act. And for 
that to be the case I need to be persuaded that the definitions of Associates as defined 
under the Act and the other requirements of the Act have been met in these particular 
circumstances. This is the crux of the matter. And Mr Fs representatives have not shown 
this and havent sought to show this even though this has been explained to them.
Mr Fs representatives make the disappointing argument that this service should take a 
common sense and holistic approach to these arguments. Which in essence appears to 
suggest I should hold Capital One responsible arbitrarily for these matters. Im not 
persuaded that its arguments are either cogent or fair. I have no doubt that Mr F has been 
treated badly by the parties he paid. But it simply doesnt follow that Capital One is 
responsible for this. 
Accordingly and for all the reasons above this complaint does not succeed as Im not 
persuaded that Capital One has treated Mr F unfairly.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr F wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position. But this isnt Capital Ones fault. Mr F is at liberty to not accept this decision 
and thus not be bound by it. However this final decision does bring to an end this services 
involvement in this dispute between Mr F and Capital One on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons give above I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) Plc. It 
has nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman