DRN-2335840
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold an insurance policy for his boiler and central heating 
system by British Gas Services Limited (BGS).
What happened
Mr O had a HomeCare Two policy with BGS which hed renewed for a couple of years and 
previously made a claim on. In 2019, he contacted BGS to make a claim on the policy as 
hed had intermittent loss of heating and hot water, and the boiler had also been making an 
unusual noise. 
BGS sent their engineers to look at Mr Os boiler in October 2019 and November 2019. 
However, on both occasions the boiler was working, not displaying any faults or making any 
noise so the engineers couldnt identify any faults. They did however tell Mr O that his boiler 
was getting old and it may be more difficult to get replacement parts for it should they be 
required.  
Mr O was frustrated by this and complained to BGS. He said that when hed tried to claim on 
his policy, he was told it would be unlikely the engineer could replace the parts due to the 
age of the boiler. And felt that the engineers were more interested in selling him a new boiler 
rather than repairing his existing one. He also said that hed been able to research what the 
fault could be himself, but the engineers couldnt find it which he didnt think was good 
enough. So he asked for a refund of his annual premiums. 
When Mr O didnt receive a response from BGS as quickly as he would have liked, he asked 
this service to look into his complaint. 
BGS replied to Mr O but didnt uphold his complaint. They said that their engineers had 
attended Mr Os property on two occasions and his boiler had been working without fault. 
They also explained that as part of their engineers visit, they would advise on the efficiency 
of the boiler including age for example. And that following this advice, Mr O replaced his 
boiler with a third party. So, they couldnt see that they had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. She said that BGS had 
sent engineers to look at Mr Os boiler and therefore they had met the terms of the policy, so 
she didnt think it had been mis-sold. She also said that whilst she understood Mr O was 
unhappy with the advice provided by the engineers, it was part of their remit to do so, and 
that Mr O could choose whether or not to follow their advice.
Mr O didnt agree as he felt he should have been told the policy was no longer suitable. So 
he asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When buying the HomeCare Two policy, BGS had a responsibility to Mr O to provide him 
with enough information to help him decide whether or not the policy was suitable for him. In 
this case Mr O hasnt disputed that the policy was suitable for his needs when he first took it 
out, but he feels BGS should have told him that the policy was no longer suitable for his 
needs. Mr O feels that hes been paying a monthly premium for a service he didnt receive.
Mr O has also told us he feels he was mis-sold the policy because BGSs engineers told him 
that it was unlikely theyd be able to get replacement parts for his boiler due to its age. Whilst 
I understand that Mr Os experiences when trying to claim on his HomeCare Two policy has 
led him to believe that he was mis-sold the policy but based on the evidence Ive seen Im 
not persuaded thats the case. 
Ive seen a copy of the renewal documents sent to Mr O dated 15 October 2018 which said 
Our records show that your boiler is. Your Boilers manufacturer stopped making your 
particular model of boiler a while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your 
boiler some other parts are becoming difficult to source. This means we may not be able to 
fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our best to keep it running for as long as 
possible. In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back 
dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  
whichevers the most recent. So, I think BGS did make Mr O aware it was possible there 
might be a limitation to the policy before he chose to renew it. 
I acknowledge Mr Os comments that he was repeatedly told the parts wouldnt be readily 
available for the boiler. However, as the boiler was working and not displaying any faults at 
the time of both the engineers visits, there was no reason for them to look at replacement 
parts or alternative options. And Im unable to comment on what may or may not have 
happened in these circumstances or indeed what parts may or may not have been available. 
Looking at the policy documents Ive seen that under the section Replacement parts it says 
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. Well try to 
provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same features or an 
identical make and model or type of fittingIf we cant get hold of the parts, we may need to 
cancel your agreement (or part of it). If weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but 
warned you that it might be difficult to find replacement parts, well do what we can, within 
reason, to repair it. 
Whilst I recognise that Mr O found it frustrating for the BGS engineers to tell him that his 
boiler was getting old and express their thoughts about its parts, I dont think theyve done 
anything wrong. They had an obligation to Mr O as their customer to let him know that they 
may be limited in getting the actual manufacturers parts and what repairs they could 
undertake. So, I think its more likely the engineers were trying to manage Mr Os 
expectations about the service they could provide him with. 
I also recognise that Mr O doesnt feel he received the benefit from the premiums he paid. 
However, Mr O did have two engineer visits in 2019 which included an annual service, 
investigations and advice. So he has received a level of service from BGS - albeit not what 
he wanted  and these visits would have been covered through the cost of his annual 
premium. 
So based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that BGS did make Mr O aware that his 
policy may not be suitable and that there may be limitations to the service they could provide. Im also satisfied that BGS provided the service Mr O had paid for as part of his 
annual premiums by attending his property on both the occasions that Mr O called them.
I acknowledge that Mr O feels strongly about this, and that this wont be the outcome he was 
hoping for. However, having reviewed his complaint in full, I cant reasonably say that BGS 
mis-sold him the HomeCare Two policy, so I wont be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman