DRN-3820275
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) declined her claim for compensation under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of a biomass boiler.
(Her husband has sought to join her in this complaint, but he is not an eligible complainant.)
Background
In 2015 Mrs M bought a biomass boiler. She paid most of the purchase price using a ten 
year loan from BPF, and that lender is therefore liable under section 75 for any 
misrepresentation made to her by the retailer. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of 
fact or law made by one person to another which induces them to enter the contract, thereby 
causing them a loss.
The boiler was eligible for financial relief under the governments Domestic Renewable Heat 
Incentive (DRHI).1 Ofgem made quarterly payments to her for seven years.
Seven years later, in 2022, Mrs G phoned BPF and said the retailer (which had gone into 
liquidation) had lied to her. She said she had been told that the DRHI payments would cover 
the loan, but that she had now unexpectedly found that she would still have three years 
worth of loan payments to fund herself in her retirement. She asked BPF for help. But the 
call handler told her that BPF could not help her, and suggested that she seek independent 
legal advice.
Mrs G continued to contact BPF about this matter. About six weeks after the initial phone 
call, BPF sent her a final response letter in which it said that she had been told the correct 
loan term and had been paid the correct amount in DRHI payments. Being dissatisfied with 
that response, Mrs G brought this complaint to our service (together with Mr M, although he 
was not a party to the loan agreement).
BPF argued that our service had no jurisdiction to consider this complaint, because Mrs M 
had complained more than six years after the sale, and also because complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity. Our adjudicator explained that Mrs Ms complaint was about how 
BPF had handled her claim under section 75, which is a regulated activity, and so our time 
limit runs from BPFs rejection of her claim. She also noted that BPFs final response letter 
appeared to acknowledge that BPF was at least potentially liable for the retailers actions 
under section 75.
The adjudicator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. She found that Mrs M was 
not complaining about the loan agreement, but about a misrepresentation that the boiler 
would effectively be self-funding when it wasnt. BPF had never really addressed that point, 
and should have dealt with her claim under section 75 from the start. For its failure to 
properly respond to her claim the adjudicator recommended that BPF pay Mrs M £300. BPF 
1 For details of the schemes operation see https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-and-social-
schemes/domestic-renewable-heat-incentive-domestic-rhi 
accepted that recommendation.
However, our adjudicator did not think that Mrs Ms section 75 claim would have succeeded. 
Firstly, the paperwork at the point of sale had made it clear that the loan period was ten 
years, not seven. Secondly, the DRHI payments exceeded the total amount repayable under 
the loan, so there had been no financial loss caused to Mrs M. Thirdly, Mrs M had brought 
her claim more than six years after the sale, so BPF would have been entitled to reject it as 
being brought out of time under the Limitation Act 1980.
Mrs M did not accept the adjudicators opinion, and so this case has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdictional issues
Under our rules, only Mrs M is eligible to bring a complaint to our service because only she 
was a party to the loan agreement. Mr M is not an eligible complainant.
BPF no longer disputes that our service has power to consider Mrs Ms complaint, so I do 
not need to deal with its initial objections in detail. I agree with what our adjudicator said 
about the subject. Briefly, to exercise, or to have the right to exercise, the lenders rights 
and duties under a regulated credit agreement2 is a regulated activity and falls within the 
jurisdiction of our service. Those duties include the duty to consider a claim under section 
75. The time limits within which a complaint must be brought to our service are not those set 
out in the Limitation Act, but in the chapter of the FCA Handbook called Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints, also known as DISP. Since the essence of Mrs Ms complaint to our service is 
that BPF rejected her claim under section 75, or did not properly consider her claim, time 
began to run in 2022 (when she brought her claim), not in 2015 (when she bought the 
boiler).
So I am satisfied that this is a complaint I have power to consider. I will now consider the 
merits of this complaint.
Should Mrs Ms phone call have been treated as a claim under section 75?
I have listened to the recording of Mrs Ms phone call to BPF in February 2022, in which she 
first raised her claim. It is clear to me that she was not complaining about the terms of the 
loan itself, but that she was saying that she had been mis-sold the boiler because the retailer 
had falsely claimed that the boiler would pay for the entire loan, by way of the DRHI 
payments. Throughout the call, she consistently repeated that the salesman had lied to her, 
and had pulled the wool over her eyes. I think that is clearly a claim about a 
misrepresentation by the retailer, and so it should have been treated as a section 75 claim. It 
is not clear to me why the call handler thought otherwise.
I think that error is mitigated by the fact that BPF did later go on to treat the matter as a 
section 75 claim in its final response letter, which was issued within the eight week deadline. 
I also think that, for reasons I will set out in the next section, BPF was entitled to decline her 
claim. So I think that the £300 which BPF has agreed to pay in full and final settlement of this 
matter (if Mrs M wishes to accept it) is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
2 Regulated Activities Order, article 60B(2).The merits of Mrs Ms claim
I do not think that Mrs Ms claim could have succeeded, because I do not think that a 
misrepresentation was made by the retailer, for the following reasons.
Firstly, I am satisfied that it was quite clear on the face of the loan agreement that the loan 
term was ten years, not seven. In the phone call to BPF, Mrs M said that she knew that the 
loan agreement said the loan term was 120 months, but she thought that was seven years. 
I do not think that misunderstanding can fairly be said to be the retailers fault.
Secondly, although Mrs M was consistent during the call that the retailer had lied to her, she 
was not consistent about exactly what the lie was. At first, she said that she had not realised 
that the DRHI payments would only be made for seven years. Later, she said she thought 
the loan term was only seven years. Of course, the theme common to both of these versions 
is that she thought the loan term and the duration of the DRHI payments would be the same, 
and so perhaps her claim would not have failed if this had been the only point against her; 
I attach less weight to it than to the other points. But BPF would certainly have been entitled 
to take it into account when evaluating her evidence.
Thirdly, the DRHI payments add up to more than the total amount Mrs M was liable to repay 
under the loan agreement. The significance of that is twofold. Firstly, the DRHI payments did 
pay for the loan, over a shorter period than the loan term, and so Mrs M actually made a 
profit from the boiler (notwithstanding that she has already spent the DRHI income and so it 
is no longer available to repay the loan with). That means there has been no financial loss to 
Mrs M (see my definition of misrepresentation near the beginning of this decision). Secondly, 
if the retailer said that the boiler would pay for itself then he was right.
(I do not think the point about the Limitation Act is persuasive, because although BPF would 
have been entitled to reject Mrs Ms claim on that basis, BPF did not rely on it in its final 
response letter, so it is moot.)
So for the three reasons given above (but especially the first and third), I do not think that 
BPF erred in declining to uphold Mrs Ms section 75 claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to pay Mrs M £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman