DRN-3552929
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is reporting to the credit reference agencies 
that she has two mortgages with it. She says this is wrong, and shed like her credit files 
corrected. 
What happened
Miss C has a mortgage current account (MCA) which is linked to her Barclays residential 
mortgage. Miss C says shes never used the MCA and it should be reported on her credit file 
as a current account.
Barclays says it reports the MCA as a flexible mortgage because if Miss C uses the overdraft 
facility within the MCA, the debt would be secured on her property.
Our investigator said the way Barclays reported the MCA wasnt unfair to Miss C.
Miss C didnt agree. She said Barclays should report the account as a mortgage current 
account. She says reporting it as a mortgage is inconsistent and misleading. Miss C said she 
has no cheque book or debit card and no way of using the account, which only exists 
because Barclays requires it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate, complete and up to date information to the credit 
reference agencies. The purpose is to assist third parties  such as other lenders  gain an 
understanding of an individuals existing obligations before offering them credit.
Barclays reports the MCA as a flexible mortgage, in addition to her mortgage account. 
Miss C says this isnt right and she only has one mortgage. 
The MCA can be used as a current account. It also gives Miss C access to additional 
borrowing in the form of an overdraft secured on her property. Barclays says it reports MCAs 
as a mortgage so that the credit file shows the level of the customers borrowing. Barclays 
has reported a zero balance for Miss Cs account.
I appreciate this is frustrating for Miss C when she doesnt use the MCA. But when Miss C 
took out a mortgage with Barclays she agreed to the terms. This included opening and 
maintaining the MCA. Miss C could potentially use the MCA to take out borrowing secured 
on her home, and I think its right that this is reflected on her credit file. I also think its right 
that Barclays reports that Miss C hasnt taken out any borrowing through the MCA. I think 
the information reported by Barclays (that the account has a zero balance) fairly reflects this.
Miss C says she doesnt have a cheque book or debit card for the MCA and has no means 
of accessing the borrowing facility. She says Barclays confirmed this. Miss C says calling the 
MCA a flexible mortgage is misleading and inconsistent. But I dont think it would be right for 
Barclays to refer to it as a current account. This wouldnt reflect the fact that any overdraft 
would be secured on her home. Simply using the product name (mortgage current account) 
might not convey to other lenders that theres potential for the account to be used for 
secured borrowing. Overall, taking all this into account, I dont think the term flexible 
mortgage is unfair. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to 
change how it reports the MCA to the credit reference agencies.
Miss C says shes worried this will affect her ability to borrow in future. She hasnt said that it 
has actually caused a problem, or provided evidence that this could happen. I agree that 
Barclays final response letter should have been more clearly worded. However, I dont think 
this affected the outcome or delayed sorting out the underlying complaint so as to make it 
fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman