DRN-4377195
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac has cancelled his mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Monument wrote to Mr B in March 2023 informing him that the policy would be cancelled on 
30 June 2023. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Monument had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr H with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monument stopped making the policy available to new customers in 2012 and so it was only 
held by existing customers who had taken it out before then and who had continued to 
renew it on an annual basis. Monument has now taken the decision to withdraw this product 
altogether.
Monument is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether Monument 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that Monument must give 90 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
By giving 90 days notice, Mr H was given the opportunity to source another policy so that 
there would be no gap in cover if thats what he wanted.
Mr H says that, when he took the policy out in 2009, he believed that it would provide cover 
for the full term of his mortgage. He says that, had he known that this wouldnt be the case, 
he would have looked elsewhere for a company that would stick to its commitment. 
The available evidence is that the only decision Monument made in 2012 was to stop 
offering the policy to new customers. And Mr H continued to be covered by the policy from 
2012 until it was cancelled in June 2023  so its only right that he needed to pay for that 
cover. So, a refund of premiums wouldnt be appropriate. It could also not be guaranteed 
that any alternative provider that Mr B might have moved to also wouldnt decide to withdraw 
cover somewhere further down the line.
I can understand why Mr H would think of the PPI as something that would cover his entire 
mortgage term. But I cant see that there was ever any promise of that  the terms of the 
policy are clear that Monument can cancel it with sufficient written notice  and the policy 
was annually renewable. 
Monument hasnt singled Mr H out. It has cancelled the policies of all the remaining 
policyholders, in accordance with the terms and conditions. As it applied the withdrawal 
across all of its customers, Im unable to conclude that it has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman