DRN-3067634
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement QIC Europe Limited (QEL) offered under his contents 
insurance following the theft of jewellery from his home.
What happened
Mr Bs jewellery was stolen from his home during a burglary. QEL accepted his claim under 
the general contents section of his policy.
QEL arranged for a valuation of the stolen jewellery based on Mr Bs description and 
evidence of his loss. None of the jewellery was specified in the schedule, so five pieces were 
capped at £2,500 in line with the policy limit for unspecified items. QEL offered a settlement 
of £34,921 in vouchers, or £24,701 in cash which reflected the cost to QEL to replace the 
jewellery using its jewellery service.
Mr B was unhappy with the offer because he didnt think it was in line with industry 
expectations for loss of antique jewellery. He asked for settlement to the full value, apart 
from the five items which he accepted were subject to the policy limit.
To begin with, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought QEL had 
made a fair offer in line with the policy terms. However, on receipt of further information, our 
investigator decided that QEL shouldnt have discounted the five capped items. She 
recommended that QEL settle the claim for the capped pieces without discounting them, 
bringing the overall cash settlement to the same value as the vouchers QEL had already 
offered.
QEL agreed to offer the full single item limit (SIL) for the five pieces of jewellery it had 
previously discounted. But it pointed out that the recommended cash settlement value wasnt 
the same as the voucher value. The cash settlement still included the discounted amount on 
pieces which werent within the SIL. QEL confirmed its offer was £28,338.51, which reflected 
its original cash settlement offer plus the difference between the discounted value and the 
SIL value of five pieces of jewellery. Mr B didnt accept its offer.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Im minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint, but my provisional decision doesnt require QEL to 
offer a full cash value settlement in the way Mr B has requested. Let me explain.
Firstly, I should point out that there hasnt been any dispute about the cash settlement of 
£2,000 for Mr Bs safe and stolen money. So, my decision is based on the assumption that 
QEL will settle that element of the claim. My focus is on the jewellery claim.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute about the circumstances around the theft or the 
valuation. The issue is, simply, that Mr B doesnt think QEL made a fair settlement offer 
because it reduced the cash amount to reflect its own retail discount. Rather than address 
each point thats been made by each party, Ive considered the overall claim.
To decide whether QELs offer is fair, Id need to see whether its in line with the policy and, 
if so, whether its fair in Mr Bs individual circumstances. Ive spent some considerable time 
looking through the policy documents, but Im afraid theyre just not clear. That means I cant 
fairly say that QEL has made an offer in line with the policy. Ill give some examples of where 
the confusion arises.
The Policy
Jewellery isnt defined or referenced in the policy. Ive looked at the definitions for personal 
belongings, personal possessions and general contents to see which category it reasonably 
falls within. Ive included the relevant parts here:
Personal Belongings
The following property solely used for domestic purposes all belonging to you or for which 
you are legally responsible:
clothing including clothing used for motor cycling
spectacles and hearing aids
baggage and other items normally carried about the person
photographic and mobile communication equipment
electronic equipment
sports equipment, musical instruments and bicycles.
Personal Possessions
Includes valuables and personal belongings in addition to the theft or accidental loss of 
money up to £500.
I think its reasonable to say that jewellery is a Personal Belonging in the generally accepted 
definition of the term, even though it doesnt really fit any of the types of item listed in the 
policy definition. I think its also reasonable to say jewellery is a valuable, which is within 
the Personal Possessions definition. That definition also includes personal belongings so, 
arguably, jewellery falls within both. This matters, because Mr B didnt have Personal 
Possessions cover, but I think the policy intends that cover to be for loss of possessions 
while away from the home. So, I think its reasonable to say Mr B wouldve expected his 
jewellery to be covered more generally within his contents cover.
The policy has the following definition:
General Contents
Household goods, business equipment, personal belongings and tenants 
improvements which you own or for which you are legally responsible
The General Contents definition includes personal belongings, so in the absence of a clear 
definition, Im satisfied that Mr Bs jewellery was covered under the General Contents section 
of the policy and this is what QEL considered the claim under.
The Schedule 
This document sets out the details of the cover Mr B bought and provides additional 
information to that contained within the policy. In this document, QEL included the following 
endorsements and conditions:No specified valuables valued over £7,500: For the purpose of Sections 1 to 3 ('Section 
1 - Art, Antiques and Collectables', 'Section 2 - Personal Possesions' [sic] and 'Section 3  
General Contents'), we will not pay for Damages to items valued more than £7,500.
This tells me that Mr B didnt specify any valuables - thats not disputed - so his cover was 
limited. But this implies the SIL is £7,500, not the limit of £2,500 as set out in the policy. And 
as the endorsements and conditions are specific to Mr Bs cover, its reasonable to assume 
the SIL is £7,500.
Although Mr B didnt have personal possessions cover, that section of the schedule also 
implies theres a SIL of £7,500:
Personal possessions away from home
Please remember you must specify any single item that is valued above £7,500
Under General Contents, a SIL isnt given for anything which might include jewellery, which 
suggests the maximum claim may be the full policy limit of £50,000. 
The Certificate of Insurance
The information contained in this document is broadly the same as that in the schedule. But 
Ive included here one part which contradicts that in the schedule:
Personal possessions away from home
Please remember you must specify any single item that is valued above £1,000
As Ive said, Mr B didnt have personal possessions cover, but this just goes to demonstrate 
the inconsistencies - the SIL stated in the schedule was £7,500.
Statement of Fact
This is the document which tells me what answers Mr B gave to the questions QEL asked 
when he took out the policy. Under the heading Your Contents Cover, QEL summarised Mr 
Bs responses:
Your policy covers damage to your contents and you have selected 'not' to include 
accidental damage to your contents. Your total sum insured for contents is '£50,000'. 
You have chosen 'not' to insure any specific items valued over £7,500.
This suggests to me that the question QEL asked was something along the lines of, Do you 
have any items valued at more than £7,500 which you would like to specify for cover under 
the policy? Mr B indicated that he didnt want cover for any specified items valued at more 
than £7,500. Having considered this, I think that at the point of sale, Mr B could reasonably 
have assumed hed be covered for any item under that value. Therefore, I think its fair to 
assume that the SIL applicable to Mr Bs general contents policy could be £7,500.
I think its also worth pointing out, here, that both the schedule and certificate of insurance 
include a new section which isnt shown at all in the policy:
Art, Antiques & Collectibles  Section 1
Sums insured up to amount
Unspecified total valuables limit £30,000
Unspecified single valuable limit £5,000
You have no specified valuables
While I wouldnt necessarily class jewellery under this heading, some of Mr Bs jewellery was 
antique, and Id argue that it was all covered by the broader term of valuables. So, according to this section, Mr B would have a SIL of £5,000, but his total cover would be capped at 
£30,000. Nevertheless, it further demonstrates that there is ambiguity in the policy 
documents.
In summary, I cant say that QEL fairly offered to settle the claim in line with the policy 
because I cant be sure under which section QEL considered the claim and what the correct 
SIL was. The policy states £2,500 but the other documents are those which personalise the 
policy to Mr Bs requirements and, as Ive explained, could be either £5,000 or £7,500. 
Ordinarily, where there is ambiguity, the policy should be interpreted in such a way that 
favours the policyholder. Ive taken this into consideration when deciding how matters should 
be put right.
Settling claims
Irrespective of whether QEL calculated the settlement based on the correct SIL, Ive gone on 
to look at the discount it applied to the cash settlement. The policy says:
Sums insured
The premium you pay is based on the sums insured. When accepting this insurance, we 
expect that the sums insured will represent the full value of the property insured and are 
adequate as follows:
General Contents
The cost of replacing them as new.
What is covered
In the event of damage to general contents which are owned by you or for which you are 
responsible, at an insured address shown on your schedule and anywhere in the world 
whilst temporarily removed, because of a sudden or unforeseen event which is not 
specifically excluded, we will pay:
the cost of replacement
We will not pay more than the sum insured shown in the schedule.
We will not pay more than:
£2,500 for any unspecified items
Having thought carefully about this, I cant fairly say that the wording here indicates that QEL 
will apply any discount. Id expect to see something which informs Mr B that QEL can 
choose how to settle the claim, and that any cash offer would represent the cost to QEL of 
replacement if he chooses a cash settlement over replacement. But the policy simply says 
QEL will pay the cost of replacement. It doesnt clarify the cost to which party, so I think its 
reasonable that Mr B would expect QEL to cover the cost to him to buy replacements for his 
stolen jewellery.
In summary, I dont think the discount QEL applied to the cash settlement offer was fair 
because the policy wording doesnt make this term clear to Mr B. To put this right, QEL 
should remove any retail discount it applied to the cash settlement offer.
Contents cover
My final point explains why Im not necessarily asking QEL to settle Mr Bs claim in cash to 
the full value of his loss, and for clarity, Ill repeat part of the policy I quoted above:
Sums insured
The premium you pay is based on the sums insured. When accepting this insurance, we 
expect that the sums insured will represent the full value of the property insured and are 
adequate as follows:General Contents
The cost of replacing them as new.
Mr B had contents cover up to £50,000. Mr Bs jewellery alone was valued at over £75,000, 
excluding any SIL limits. This tells me Mr B was underinsured and I understand QEL also 
mentioned this to him or his representative. In these circumstances, QEL has options 
available to it under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act (CIDRA) 
for how it handles the claim. One of those options is to reduce the settlement by the same 
proportion as the underinsurance  its limit of liability. While it didnt apply its limit of liability, I 
cant fairly ask it to consider Mr Bs claim more favourably while ignoring whats fair to QEL. 
Overall, I think the policy documents contain enough inconsistencies and ambiguity that its 
not clear whether QEL has offered to settle the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Ive made reference to personal possessions, but Im aware Mr B didnt take 
out cover for possessions away from the home and that hasnt influenced my decision. Ive 
included it to demonstrate some of the ambiguity which, as explained, leads me to conclude 
that the policy terms werent clear to Mr B. 
To put matters right, my provisional decision is that QEL should reconsider Mr Bs claim 
against the most favourable of the SIL mentioned in the policy documents  that is, £7,500. 
QEL shouldnt apply any retail discount to the cash settlement because I dont think the 
policy made it clear to Mr B that QEL would cash settle claims that way. And, I think its fair if 
QEL considers its options under CIDRA, should it choose to do so, when reconsidering Mr 
Bs claim. 
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and minded to require QIC Europe Limited to:
reconsider Mr Bs claim against the most favourable of the SIL mentioned in the 
policy documents  that is, £7,500;
not apply any retail discount to the cash settlement because the policy didnt make it 
clear that QIC Europe Limited would cash settle claims that way, and
consider its options under CIDRA, should it choose to do so, when reconsidering Mr 
Bs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QEL provided calculations of what it thought the settlement figure might be under CIDRA 
and accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
 
Mr B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As QEL accepted and Mr B didnt respond with any further evidence for me to consider, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and I require QIC Europe Limited to:
reconsider Mr Bs claim against the most favourable of the SIL mentioned in the 
policy documents  that is, £7,500;
not apply any retail discount to the cash settlement because the policy didnt make it 
clear that QIC Europe Limited would cash settle claims that way, and
consider its options under CIDRA, should it choose to do so, when reconsidering Mr 
Bs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman