DRN-1506477
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought a PPI policy when they took out a Halifax mortgage in 2001. The policy 
was sold in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance package called a 
Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package gave 
Mr and Mrs A cover for accident, sickness and unemployment on a 50:50 basis for up to 
twenty-four months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr and Mrs A say that they felt pressurised into taking out the PPI and it was implied by the 
agent they spoke to that theyd need to do so to qualify for their mortgage or to help with 
their application. And so they dont think it was made clear to them that the PPI was optional.
BoS has provided a copy of the mortgage application which Mr and Mrs A completed and 
signed at the time of this sale. Theres a section on the form headed Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) And I can see that Mr and Mrs A have both signed below the 
printed statement: Yes, we would like to take advantage of the TMPP. The way this section 
is worded seems to me to make it clear that the PPI was optional and a separate product 
from the mortgage itself.
BoS has also provided copies of screen shots from their computer system which record the 
answers that Mr and Mrs A gave to questions they were asked at the time about their 
personal circumstances. These were to check eligibility and suitability for the TMPP. And 
from what we know more generally about the sales process BoS used at around the time of 
this sale, it was its normal practice to discuss PPI cover with a customer and to then obtain 
their explicit consent to the policy being set up for them.
I accept that its possible that the BoS advisor did unfairly pressurise and mislead 
Mr and Mrs A into taking out the policy in the way they have described. But I need to bear in 
mind that this all took place almost twenty years ago and memories of such discussions do tend to fade over time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what 
happened, based only on what Mr and Mrs A think they remember now.
So, based on all the information now available to me, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs A were aware at the time that the PPI was optional and that they actively 
decided to take out this cover. But I can understand why they might not be able to recall this 
now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. And from what Ive seen, I think thats 
most likely to have been the case. This means that it had to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for them. I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Mr and Mrs A appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of 
its main limitations and exclusions.
 
Mr and Mrs A say the cover provided by the policy wasnt necessary given their other 
means of paying their mortgage at the time of the sale. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to these other means and, potentially, for longer than they would 
have lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where ones home 
is at risk if the repayments cant be made.  So I still think that Mr and Mrs A would 
have valued the extra security the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the premium was paid 
monthly, Mr and Mrs A could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met their needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs A enough information for them to decide whether or not 
to take out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information they received  including 
about the cooling off period they had after the sale - could have been better than it was. 
But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for them, I dont 
think better information would have changed their minds about buying it. I think theyd still 
have thought the policy gave them useful protection at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs A have lost out by anything that BoS 
may have done wrong when it sold them this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman