DRN-4118910
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) hold him personally liable for a Bounce 
Back Loan (BBL) that he says he applied for in the name of his limited company which has 
since ceased trading. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr W successfully applied to BOS for a BBL. Mr W believed he had applied for 
the BBL for his limited company, which subsequently ceased trading and was dissolved. But 
he found that BOS had incorrectly recorded the BBL as being applied for and received on a 
sole trader basis, which meant that he remained personally liable for the outstanding 
balance of the BBL. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
BOS responded to Mr W and confirmed that hed applied for the BBL on a sole trader basis 
and had received the BBL funds on that basis. Mr W wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel BOS had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that while Mr W may have intended to apply for the BBL in the 
name of his limited company, he didnt do so. Instead, Mr W applied to BOS for a BBL, and 
subsequently received the BBL funds, on a sole trader basis.
I take this position because the business relationship which Mr W held when he applied for 
the BBL was clearly that of a sole trader. This is evidenced by the business current account 
(BCA) statements, which are titled in Mr Ws name and not in the name of his limited 
company (which is only referenced as a trading name). And by the fact that Mr W applied for 
the BBL in his own name using his sole trader BCA and received the loan funds into that 
same sole trader bank account.
Additionally, BOS have provided contact notes which show that in June 2019, Mr W tried to 
deposit a cheque written out to his limited company into his sole trader account but that this 
was refused by BOS  because his account wasnt in the name of his limited company. And 
BOSs contact note also explains that Mr W was told at that time that the name and basis of 
the BCA couldnt be changed and that if Mr W wanted an account for his limited company, 
he would need to apply to them for a new limited company BCA.
But Mr W didnt then apply for a new limited company BCA, but instead continued to use his 
existing sole trader account. And this includes that Mr W applied for the BBL using that sole 
trader BCA and thus on a sole trader basis  which was the only business relationship basis 
he held with NatWest  in May 2020.
Furthermore, after applying for the BBL via his sole trader BCA with NatWest, Mr W then 
accepted the BBL agreement  which confirmed that he was being lent the money in his own 
name  before receiving the BBL funds into his sole trader BCA.
Mr W feels that BOS should have been aware that he was operating on a limited company 
basis and questions why BOS didnt raise this point with him before providing the BBL to 
him. In normal circumstances, I might agree with this point. But the BBL scheme was set up 
precisely because of abnormal circumstances  the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic  
and many of the rules and regulations surrounding lending were suspended for this scheme.
This includes that BBL applications were self-attested, and it wasnt expected that lenders
such as BOS would check the trading name or status of applicants  in much the same way 
as they werent expected to verify the business turnover information provided by the 
applicant at the point of application. Instead, it was for the applicant to ensure that a BBL 
was applied for correctly. And as mentioned, Mr W received the BBL agreement titled in his 
own name to review and accept if he was happy with the information contained therein  
which he did.
Ultimately, its for Mr W to ensure that his business relationship with BOS is structured on 
the correct basis  and I feel this is especially pertinent following the conversation he had 
with BOS in 2019 regarding the non-acceptance of cheques made out to his limited 
company into his sole trader account. And it isnt for banks such as BOS to check the validity 
of their existing business relationships with their customers on regular ongoing basis.
Finally, Mr W has questioned why BOS objected to the closure of his limited company, if it 
were the case that his only business relationship with BOS was that of a sole trader. Mr W 
stated several months ago that he would provide further information about this point, but to 
date no such further information from Mr W has been forthcoming. 
I also dont feel that any action BOS may have taken in this regard would override all that 
Ive explained above. This includes the sole trader BCA, sole trader BBL agreement, and the 
prior conversation BOS held with Mr W about his sole trader account and the need to open a 
new limited company account if he wanted to bank with them on a limited company basis. 
And I feel that these points demonstrate that Mr W clearly applied for the BBL on a sole 
trader basis and should in all reasonableness have understood that he was doing so. 
All of which means that I dont feel that BOS have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here by holding Mr W personally liable for the BBL. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to take any further action here. I realise this 
wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman