DRN-4444965
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a personal loan Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
provided to him. Hes in effect said that Nationwide lent to him even though it ought to have 
realised that he would use the funds advanced for gambling.
Background
Mr C has also separately complained about Nationwides decision to provide him with an 
overdraft, increase the limit and then continue providing it to him. Hes also complained 
about being able to make as many transactions as he did. Those matters are being 
considered separately and this decision solely concerns Nationwides decision to provide         
Mr C with a loan.  
Nationwide provided Mr C with a loan for £4,750.00 in June 2020. 
Mr Cs loan had an APR of 9.8% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £5,468.40, which included interest, fees and charges of £718.40, was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £151.90. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Nationwide had told us. And he thought 
that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to reasonably understand 
whether Mr C could afford to make his monthly payments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwide says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details regarding his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and other credit reference agency 
checks undertaken. In its view, all of this information showed Mr C could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr C has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because Nationwide ought to have realised that hed use the funds for gambling.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Nationwide have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Mr C has continually referred to Nationwide having 
provided him with a large loan. But a loan for £4,750.00 in itself wouldnt be considered a 
large loan or in itself wouldnt warrant a specific level of checks. Its the individual 
circumstances of the lending in question which are relevant to what a reasonable and 
proportionate check looks like, not just the amount of the loan in isolation.
I also think that Nationwide didnt simply accept an over-optimistic declaration of monthly 
disposable income at face value. It caried out checks against what Mr C had declared. 
Nationwides credit searches showed that Mr C had low levels of existing debt, at the time of 
the application at least, and what he did have was being reasonably managed. 
I appreciate that Mr C has disputed the amount Nationwides checks showed him to be in 
debt by as he says he was overdrawn by more than this on his main account, which was 
with another bank. But Ive seen the results of Nationwides credit search and it shows that 
Mr C had total debts of around £780 at the time this search was carried out. 
Mr C has provided statements from his main account showing that his balance was 
overdrawn by more than this. Although this is the case, different financial institutions report 
balances at different times. Its also worth noting that Mr Cs full credit file shows that Mr Cs 
other bank reported a £0 overdraft balance in May 2020 and June 2020, which are the 
reports in months leading up to this application. 
So I dont think that Nationwides information was inaccurate at least in terms of what was on 
Mr Cs credit file. And, in any event, whats important here is that Nationwide had no reason 
to question what it received from the credit reference agency it used. Im therefore satisfied 
that it was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit search information that it had. 
Ive also thought about what Mr C has said about it being the case that Nationwide ought 
reasonably to have been aware that hed use the funds for gambling. Its fair to say that     
Mr C was carrying out gambling transactions on his Nationwide current account prior to his 
application for this loan. But Mr C didnt have an overdraft on his Nationwide current account 
at this stage and the account was receiving credits in the form of gambling winnings as well 
as transfers. So Mr C hadnt been borrowing from Nationwide, at least, for the purposes of 
gambling in the lead up to this application. 
Furthermore, given Mr C wasnt overly indebted, I dont see why Nationwide would 
reasonably have reached the conclusion that Mr C was taking out this loan to fund gambling. 
I say this while particularly mindful that this was a first loan and I dont think it would have been reasonable to automatically decline Mr Cs application on the basis that he had been 
gambling what, on the face of things at least, appeared to be his own funds. 
At the absolute best, I would have expected Nationwide to ask Mr C more questions about 
these transactions. If Mr C was intent on gambling any funds he secured, which his 
complaint does appear to suggest hes arguing was the case, I consider it unlikely that he 
would have told Nationwide thats what he planned to do with any funds advanced, if he was 
asked further questions on his gambling as part of his application.
Finally, Ive also seen Mr Cs argument that Nationwide should have requested the 
statements for his main bank account, which he believes would have seen his loan 
application declined, in order to verify his inaccurate declaration of income. 
In particular, Mr C appears to have relied on CONC 5.2A.16 G (3) which states: 
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not 
generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
The first thing for me to say is that Nationwide didnt solely rely on Mr Cs statement of his 
current income when performing its income and expenditure checks. It does not appear to 
be in dispute that Mr C may have provided an inaccurate and inflated declaration of his 
income. But Nationwide actually took steps to cross-check Mr Cs declaration against 
information it obtained from a credit reference agency. 
The information from the credit reference agency suggested that the amount Mr C received 
in his main current account received each month, wasnt incompatible or inconsistent with  
Mr Cs income declaration. This check suggested that Mr Cs account was receiving 
sufficient funds to justify Mr Cs declaration.   
I wouldnt go as far as describing this as Nationwide actually verifying Mr Cs income. But 
nonetheless as it took steps to obtain independent evidence from the credit reference 
agency, in terms of the credits going into Mr Cs main account, I think its fair to say that 
Nationwide didnt solely rely on a statement of current income made by Mr C. Therefore, 
while Mr C might think that the steps Nationwide did take here did not go far enough, Im not 
necessarily persuaded that Nationwide acted contrary to the guidance in CONC 5.2A.16 G 
(3) in the way Mr C suggests. 
In any event and for the sake of completeness, I also think it is important for me to say that 
even if I were to give Mr C the benefit of the doubt here and agree with him that Nationwide 
acted contrary to the guidance in CONC 5.2A.16 G (3), it does not automatically follow that 
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld for this reason, or that the statements for his main 
account should be considered. I say this because even if I concluded that Nationwide had 
acted contrary to the guidance in CONC 5.2A.16 G (3) and relied solely on Mr Cs inaccurate 
declaration of his income, I would still need to conclude what Nationwide ought to have done 
to have acted in accordance with the guidance.
CONC 5.2A.16 G (3) does not state that a bank needs to ask a customer for statements to a 
bank account before relying on a customers declaration of income. What it states is that 
independent evidence should be obtained in order to consider a customers declaration of 
income. I think that this is an important distinction to make  particularly as one example, 
which is actually used in CONC 5.2A.16 G (3), is obtaining evidence from a credit reference 
agency and this is what Nationwide actually did in Mr Cs case. But leaving that to one side, even if I were to accept that, as Mr C says, what Nationwide did 
wasnt enough, obtaining the statements for Mr Cs main bank account wasnt the only other 
way for Nationwide to assess Mr Cs declaration of his income. It could also have looked at 
other independent evidence  for example, by asking Mr C for copies of his payslips, or ask 
him to provide some other proof of income. 
So I dont agree that Nationwide had to obtain copies the bank statements from Mr Cs main 
account to have complied with the guidance in CONC 5.2A.16 G (3) in the way that Mr C has 
suggested. And I therefore dont think that Nationwide ought reasonably to have been aware 
of the contents of the bank statements for Mr Cs main account.  
Having carefully considered the information presented before me, Im satisfied that 
Nationwides lending department was not actually aware, or that it ought reasonably to have 
been aware that Mr C would use any funds advanced for gambling when it made its decision 
to lend to him. 
Given what Nationwides credit search showed, Mr Cs declared income and the checks 
carried out against this, Im satisfied that there was no obvious reason for it to question the 
information it had obtained. There didnt appear to be anything that was obviously 
inconsistent or difficult to explain and Ive not seen enough here to be satisfied that the 
decision maker on Mr Cs loan ought reasonably to have been aware that any funds 
advanced would be gambled. 
I accept that Mr C says his position was worse than the information obtained shows and he 
had to take out further loans in order to keep up with his repayments. Im sorry to hear this, 
although given the amounts Mr C says he borrowed from elsewhere, the monthly payments 
on this loan and the total amount that had to be repaid, its difficult for me to accept that Mr C 
had to borrow the amounts hes referred to, solely to make the payments to this loan. 
Nonetheless, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a respondent firm did something wrong. Nationwide could only make a reasonable 
assessment of the information it had. I dont see how Nationwide turning Mr C down for 
additional borrowing in March 2021 or September 2021 means that Nationwide should have 
declined Mr Cs application in June 2020, or that these declined applications meant that 
Nationwide needed to contact Mr C about his existing loan. 
Although I do accept that these matters which occurred after this loan was taken out could 
be relevant considerations in relation to Mr Cs separate overdraft complaint. This is 
particularly in relation to allowing him to continue using the facility. But thats not what Im 
looking at here. Furthermore, I wish to be reiterate and be clear on the fact that I have not 
looked at Mr Cs overdraft complaint and make no findings in relation to this matter.  
Given the payments for Mr Cs successful loan application appeared to be affordable and 
this was a first loan, Im satisfied that Nationwide was not only reasonably entitled to believe 
that Mr C could make the payments, but also that it wouldnt be increasing his indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
In other words, the monthly payment appeared affordable based on the information that it 
obtained and it wasnt the case that it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C would use 
the funds advanced for gambling. As this is the case, I dont think that Nationwide did 
anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr C.
So overall I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C as he clearly feels strongly about this matter. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman