DRN-3031310
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Ms complaint. 
summary and background to complaint
Mr M said Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a credit card in 2003.
BOS didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it said 
Mr M had referred the complaint to us too late.  
 
But BOS did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of Mr 
Ms PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr M about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ms complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought BOSs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
BOS sent its final response on 8 April 2013. So Mr M had until 8 October 2013 to refer him 
complaint to us. But he didnt do this until 2018. So the complaint was referred out of time 
under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about that. But, while I know this will be disappointing for 
her, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here. I believe Mr M could have 
referred him complaint to us by 8 October 2013. Mr M says he contacted BoS directly to 
make his complaint and that he believed them when he got a response saying that his 
complaint about the policy being mis-sold had no grounds. However, the letter BoS sent him 
in April 2013 was very clear about the fact that he would not be able to escalate his 
complaint to this service unless he did so within 12 months. The fact that he chose to 
discontinue his complaint at that time is not an exceptional circumstance under the rules I 
have to apply.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr M with him complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Id just like to clarify one issue that appears to be a source of some confusion. Mr M says 
that BoS must have acted either incompetently or dishonestly by refusing his complaint in 
2013 because, when his representative contacted BoS in 2017 it resulted in him being paid 
compensation of around £2,000. However, that payment was not compensation for the PPI 
having been mis-sold. The amount that Mr M received was for any commission over 50% 
paid on the policy. But the requirement for BoS to repay commission was only introduced by 
the FCA on 28 August 2017 and in 2013 no-one knew about this issue as the relevant court 
case had not taken place at that time. I address the issue further below.
non-disclosure of commission
I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BOS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BOSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BOS didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BOS and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
BOS didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think BOS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on him complaint.
In summary they have said Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BOS failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr M wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BOS not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BOSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for BOS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr M paid for him PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that BOSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.As BOS has already paid Mr M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
my decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about how him policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Bank of 
Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman