DRN-1039641
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs R says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
In 2005 Mrs R applied for a Tesco credit card using a postal application form. At the same 
time she was sold a PPI policy. The policy provided cover against Mrs R not being able to 
work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the 
policy would have paid a monthly benefit of 10% of the credit card balance for up to 12 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs R applied for the credit card and the PPI using a postal application form. She completed 
the form herself and sent it back to Tesco. Ive seen a copy of the application form. I can see 
there is a section about PPI. Within the section is the option to accept or decline PPI by 
ticking the appropriate box. There is a tick in the Yes box and the No box is left blank.
Overall I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand how she may not recall this after so many years.
As it was a postal application I dont think Tesco recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Ive 
looked at Mrs Rs circumstances to consider whether any clearer information would likely 
have put her off buying the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs R didnt have any medical 
conditions that wouldnt be covered and her employment circumstances were not unusual in 
any way. So it looks like Mrs R was eligible for the policy and could have made a claim if 
shed needed to.It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time of the sale. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI cost would have put Mrs R off taking out the cover. 
Which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said. Mrs R has told us her employer wouldve paid 
her up to six months full pay if she became too unwell to work, followed by another six 
months of half pay. But the PPI policy could have paid Mrs R a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months in addition to any sick pay. So I still think Mrs R would have found the policy useful, 
especially if she was unable to work for an extended period of time.
And it would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mrs R had lost her job, meaning she would 
not have to use any redundancy pay to make the monthly credit card repayments.
In summary I think the PPI was presented to Mrs R as optional and I think she chose to take 
it out. And even if Tesco had given Mrs R all the clear information about the policy that it 
should have, I still think she wouldve gone ahead and bought it.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman