DRN-3193307
The complaint
Trustees Ms D and Mr G complain, on behalf of the trust S, that Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) avoided a whole of life assurance policy for the late Mr S and 
declined a claim because of this. The trustees also complain about the way the matter was 
handled.
The trustees have been represented by Mrs S, the late Mr Ss wife, who raised the claim.
Another business handled the claim on behalf of Prudential, but for ease in my decision I will 
refer only to Prudential.
What happened
In April 2012 Mr S applied for a whole of life plan with Prudential. He did so via an 
independent financial advisor (IFA). The policy he applied for initially had a sum assured of 
£550,000. This was accepted and cover started around a week later. The policy was then 
placed in trust with Ms D and Mr G as trustees.
Sadly, in November 2018 Mr S passed away. So, Mrs S submitted a claim on behalf of the 
trust.
To help its assessment of the claim Prudential requested information from Mr Ss GP. 
Based on the evidence gathered, Prudential said there were aspects of Mr Ss medical 
history which it felt he ought to have told it about when he applied for the policy. In particular:
Long-standing, treated anxiety and depression (documented from as early as 2001).
Acute Psychotic Disorder (09/06/2011  22/06/2011), with active monitoring by 
Community mental health team since then.
Excessive alcohol consumption (documented from as early as 29/08/2007).
After reviewing things, Prudential decided Mr S had deliberately misrepresented his 
circumstances by failing to share this history in the application form in response to the 
questions he was asked. In June 2019, it wrote to Mrs S to confirm it had avoided the policy 
(treated it as if it had never existed) and declined the claim because of this. It refunded the 
premiums that had been paid. It noted it would never have offered Mr S cover had it had the 
above information. In the letter Prudential sent it didnt explain to Mrs S why it had declined 
the claim but gave this information to Mr Ss GP. And advised Mrs S to make an 
appointment with the GP to discuss this information.
Once Mrs S had this information, she felt what Prudential had done was unfair and 
complained, asking it to review its decision. In particular, she noted:
Mr S disclosed hed suffered from anxiety for three years. Mr S had also completed a 
an additional form with his IFA, in which hed noted he had been suffering from 
anxiety/depression. Mrs S enclosed a copy of this form for Prudentials reference.
Mrs S recalled the week mentioned by Prudential in relation to the Acute Psychotic 
Disorder and noted theyd visited Accident and Emergency (A&E) due to Mr Ss 
heightened anxiety. Mrs S said the incident was confirmed as anxiety and depression 
and Mr Ss medication was increased, but he wasnt admitted to hospital, nor did he 
have active monitoring by the community mental health team.
Mr Ss medical records from 2007 state he was drinking 2-3 rums every night. 
Mrs S said Mr S did drink this much on occasion, but he later reduced his drinking. 
She noted this would still only equate to 3 units a day, about 21 units per week.
Mrs S also complained about the handling of the matter. She noted Prudential had sent a 
letter addressed to Mr S when the policy was avoided, which was distressing. Mrs S also 
said it was upsetting having to wait for a GP appointment to understand why the policy had 
been avoided and the claim declined.
Mrs S also disagreed that Prudential would have declined to offer cover. She said an 
underwriter who worked for the same business as the administrating company had recently 
advised it would have added a 55% rating (charged higher premiums for the same cover). 
She noted Mr S would have willingly paid a higher premium, as the policy was being paid for 
by a family trust.
Prudential looked into the complaint. It apologised for the fact it had suggested Mr S didnt 
disclose his anxiety and depression. It agreed that the additional form included this 
information and was provided to Prudential at that time. It accepted that in this Mr S 
disclosed that he had ongoing anxiety and depression since 2003 and that hed had blood 
tests and medication for this. He detailed that hed seen a specialist and, in connection with 
this, provided his GPs details.
Prudential also acknowledged that Mrs S had been caused upset by having to wait for a GP 
appointment to understand the why it had avoided the policy and declined the claim. 
It apologised for the letter it sent addressed to Mr S. It offered £500 compensation to Mrs S 
for this and for the time taken to respond to the complaint.
In relation to the avoidance of the policy and claim, Prudential said:
That the medical notes show Mr S was diagnosed by a consultant psychiatrist with 
Acute Psychotic disorder. It noted Mr S was prescribed anti-psychotic medication and 
had experienced visual and auditory hallucinations. It said this was not long before 
he applied for the policy and so it felt hed have known about this diagnosis.
The medical notes show Mr S was advised about safe alcohol limits in 2007 and in 
June 2011. The medical notes show he was drinking a bottle of rum every two days 
and two cans a night and trying to cut down. It was also recorded that hed abused 
alcohol over recent years.
It said the correct answers to the relevant questions would have meant it obtained a GP 
report. And it thought the risk Mr Ss overall medical history presented would have made him 
uninsurable at that time. It said it wouldnt have offered a policy and so it didnt agree to 
change its decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
Mrs S remained unhappy with Prudentials response and so brought the complaint to our 
Service on behalf of the trust. Mrs S questioned why Prudential didnt write to Mr Ss GP 
back when the policy was taken out. And she said that Prudentials premium refund didnt in 
any way reflect the financial impact that the decision to decline the claim had had on her 
family.Mrs S also told us the IFA didnt make Mr S aware of the importance of documenting each of 
the illnesses hed suffered from, such that he felt that disclosing anxiety/depression was 
sufficient. Mrs S said Mr S didnt know of the specific medical term or diagnosis of 
Acute Psychotic disorder. Mrs S didnt think anyone could be expected to detail this, when 
theyd already detailed anxiety/depression, which she said was how the illness was 
understood by Mr S.
Mrs S also acknowledged there were occasional periods when Mr S would drink to excess, 
usually brought on by his mental health issues or during holidays/celebrations. But she didnt 
think these could be counted as regular which is what the question asked.
Our Investigator looked into things and thought Mr S had made a careless, rather than 
deliberate, misrepresentation. But they were ultimately of the opinion that Prudential was 
entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. They also thought the compensation 
offered by Prudential in relation to its handling of the matter was reasonable. The trustees 
didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the complaint, I intended to reach the same outcome as the Investigator but
for slightly different reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision so that the trustees and 
Prudential had the opportunity to comment before a final decision was given.
Following receipt of my provisional decision, neither Prudential nor the trustees raised any 
further comments in relation to the merits of this complaint.
So, Im now in a position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im very sorry for Mrs Ss loss. Im conscious that to have the policy 
avoided and the claim declined, whilst also dealing with the bereavement must have been 
incredibly difficult for her and her family.
I also want to highlight that this policy was held in trust. Therefore, it is ultimately the trustees 
of that trust that are bringing this complaint to our Service, not Mrs S as an individual. 
And this has implications for the kinds of awards I can make. For example, I cannot award 
for the upset or distress Mrs S has experienced.
This is relevant to the concerns that have been raised about Prudentials handling of the 
matter. Mrs S is unhappy as she had to contact Mr Ss GP to get further information and 
Prudential sent a letter addressed to the late Mr S. Prudential has agreed it made mistakes 
here, so what I need to consider in this decision is their impact  but I can only consider their 
impact on the trustees of the trust. Whilst I dont doubt Mrs S found all of this very 
distressing, I cannot award for the upset caused to her, as she is not one of the trustees. 
And this means she is not an eligible complainant. And I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me the trustees were inconvenienced by these mistakes over and above what Id 
usually expect where a policy is avoided and a claim declined. For these reasons, I wont be 
asking Prudential to do anything further in relation to this part of the complaint.
Im aware that concerns have also been raised over the way this policy was sold to Mr S, in 
particular, the guidance Mr S was given when answering application questions. The IFA, 
through whom Mr S purchased the policy, was independent of Prudential. So, Prudential isnt responsible for their actions. This complaint is about Prudential, so in this decision I 
wont be commenting on the concerns S has about the IFA.
Id also like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment made by 
either the trusts representatives or by Prudential. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like 
to reassure all parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve 
provided to our Service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Misrepresentation
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation at the time this policy was taken out which is 
The Marine Insurance Act 1906. Ill refer to this as the Act. Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time Prudential made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
Under the Act, the onus is on the person taking out the policy to disclose material facts to the 
insurer. A material fact is something that a reasonable writer would want to know about. 
And, if they fail to do this and this induced the insurer to enter into the policy, then it will be 
entitled to avoid it (treat it as if it never existed).
However, we have a long-established approach to decide whats fair and reasonable, which 
is different to the Act and is largely set out in the code.
The code says misrepresentation is the omission of material information that the insurer has 
asked for and that would have resulted in a different underwriting outcome had it been 
disclosed. The code requires that a reasonable person would have considered the 
information relevant to the insurer. It classifies misrepresentations and sets out different 
remedies available to the insurer dependent on the classification.
Deliberate misrepresentation is defined by the code as occurring where in the 
circumstances, on the balance of probabilities, the customer knew, or must have known, that 
the information given was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer. The code says such 
categorisation should be reserved for only the most serious cases of misrepresentation. 
An insurer is then allowed to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
The code says carless misrepresentation results from insufficient care and includes anything 
from an understandable oversight or an inadvertent mistake to serious negligence. 
An insurer is then allowed to apply a proportionate remedy as outlined in the code. This can 
involve declining avoiding the policy and declining the claim if the policy would never have 
been offered by the insurer had it been given the information it ought to have had.
The code says innocent misrepresentation happens when the customer has acted honestly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances. And an insurer should then pay the claim in full.
The code also says consideration should also be given to how clear and concise and 
relevant the questions asked were and to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
Given the concerns raised about the guidance given to Mr S by the IFA, I can understand 
why the trustees think this is relevant when assessing whether Mr S took care not to make a 
misrepresentation. But the code states:If the intermediary was clearly acting on behalf of the customerthe intermediary (as 
opposed to the insurer) should be accountable for any misrepresentation resulting directly 
from the intermediarys action or omission.
As outlined above, the IFA was acting on Mr Ss behalf and not on Prudentials. So, I think 
Prudential can fairly rely on the information given to it by Mr Ss agent, providing it 
highlighted the importance of providing accurate information.
Im satisfied that in the declaration of health form Prudential warned that not including 
relevant information could result in the non-payment of the claim. And whilst Mr S chose to 
have the paperwork relating to his policy sent to his IFA directly, Prudential still sent copy of 
the confirmation schedule directly to Mr S. This schedule included a list of the questions 
asked and the answers submitted by his IFA. The letter stated that his answers were the 
basis of the agreement between Prudential and Mr S and it advised he should carefully 
check his answers and get in touch if they were incorrect. So, Mr S was given direct access 
to his application, the questions asked and his answers by Prudential. And I think Prudential 
made it clear that Mr S needed to ensure the answers were correct.
Im aware the representatives of the trust feel Prudential ought to have contacted Mr Ss GP 
following his application. But I wouldnt necessarily expect an insurer to request medical 
evidence at the start of a policy. It is not practical for an insurer to do this for every 
application and so it is accepted industry practice that insurers can rely on the information 
given to them by the consumer. Insurers would only request further medical evidence where 
they feel it necessary to assess an application or if they were carrying out randomly selected 
checks. I appreciate this was a large sum assured with high premiums, but this doesnt 
change the fact that Prudential was under no obligation to double check Mr Ss answers. 
Im also satisfied Prudential made it clear within the application form that its standard 
process is to request a random sample of medical records and it did not suggest it would be 
definitely be checking Mr Ss medical records.
Keeping all of this in mind, Ive then considered the evidence surrounding to the two key 
areas where Prudential thinks there has been misrepresentation.
Alcohol use
In the application Mr S was asked:
Do you or have you in the past 5 years ever regularly consumed more than 30 units 
of alcohol per week. 1 unit = 25ml of spirits or a small (125ml) glass of wine or  pint 
of beer, lager or cider
Mr S answered no.
The policy was completed April 2012, which means Prudential asked about Mr Ss drinking 
between April 2007 and April 2012.
There are several entries within the medical records of relevance here:
In Aug 2007 Mrs Ss GP notes show a consultation about his depression and anxiety. 
In this it is noted that Mr S is at times excess drinking-2-3 rums every night-advised 
re [disputed] safe limit 28 u per week-cut down alcohol-have 2 alcohol free days each 
week.1
1 To be clear, the reference to disputed here is within the GP record.A letter from the CMHT following a review on 10 June 2011 connected with Mr Ss 
hallucinations said was drinking heavily rum and spirits plus 2-3 beers per night but 
this has reduced recently.
Another letter from the CMHT on 13 June 2011 states under the section drug and 
alcohol history 1 bottle of rum every two days but is trying to cut down and 2 cans a 
night. Reported 4 Magners last night.
On the discharge document completed by the CMHT on 22 June 2011 it also states 
He has abused alcohol over recent years. Hes cut down and currently drinking 
approx. 2 pints of cider each evening.
And in August 2011 there is also a GP note which states Mr S stopped drinking 
alcohol again last few days.
The entries show Mr Ss drinking was at times greater than 30 units a week. But Mrs S has 
said that whilst there were occasions where Mr S would drink to excess, this wasnt regular.
The question doesnt define the term regular. But Im not persuaded that this makes the 
question unclear. I think a reasonable person would be able to understand that what 
Prudential was asking about here is excessive drinking beyond occasional - so excessive 
drinking beyond the occasional holiday or celebratory occasions Mrs S mentioned.
I think the medical entries indicate that regular excessive drinking was something Mr S was 
struggling with in the years prior to his application. There is reference to the him having 
abused alcohol, which isnt a term typically used by medical professionals where someone 
has drunk excessively on occasion. The evidence also shows Mr S was actively seeking to 
try to reduce his drinking which indicates he considered it, at times, problematic. And the 
records suggest his drinking reached high levels  for example 1 bottle of rum every two 
days.
I appreciate there may have been points where Mr S was drinking less than the 30 units a 
week. The medical snapshot of Mr Ss drinking does support Mrs Ss account that it varied. 
But the question doesnt ask if he was constantly drinking excessively, it asks Do you or 
have you in the past 5 years ever regularly consumed more than 30 units of alcohol per 
week. And I think the medical records show there were points where Mr S was regularly 
consuming over this.
So, I think Prudential can fairly say that a reasonable person, in Mr Ss circumstances, ought 
to have known that this information was relevant and should have answered this question 
yes.
Acute Psychotic disorder
The questions Prudential has said are relevant here are:
Have you ever had any of the following: Mental illness that has required hospital 
treatment or referral to a psychiatrist or other specialist?
Mr S answered no.
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: Any form of mental illness 
including anxiety, depression, stress, nervous breakdown or eating disorders? 
Mr S answered yes.In the last 6 months have you taken or been prescribed drugs, medicines, tablets or 
any other form of treatment? (over the counter medication and oral contraception can 
be disregarded).
Mr S answered yes.
There were then further forms available which could be completed and submitted with the 
application form where a positive answer was given. One of these was completed. In this 
form Mr S was asked What is the medical condition? and he declared anxiety/depression 
which he said begun in June 2003 and remained ongoing. He described symptoms of feeling 
anxious, irregular sleep, not wanting to go out and constant fatigue. He said hed seen a 
specialist for this and when asked for their details, gave contact information for his GP. 
When asked what specialist investigations thered been, he declared blood tests and 
prescribed medication.
Having looked at the medical evidence, I again think its fair for Prudential to say Mr S didnt 
declare material information that reasonable person would have considered relevant to the 
insurer  Ill explain why.
The medical records show that in June 2011 Mr S told his GP he was experiencing visual 
and auditory hallucinations. The notes also suggest he attended A&E and required sedatives 
on one occasion that month. The GP referred Mr S for assessment by the community mental 
health team (CMHT) and he was prescribed a number of medications by the team in 
question, one of which was an anti-psychotic drug. By mid-June 2011 Mr S was seen by a 
consultant psychiatrist from the CMHT at his home address. Throughout June 2011 he saw 
the CMHT on multiple occasions. He was discharged at the end of the month and told to 
continue medication. He was ultimately diagnosed with Acute Psychotic disorder as well as a 
long-standing history of mixed anxiety and depression. In August 2011 Mr S experienced 
hallucinations again after hed stopped his medication  he told the GP he thought this was a 
sleeping tablet  and he was advised to resume this.
Looking at the first question listed above, I think it is clear and specific. And Im satisfied 
Mr S should have answered the question yes. And thats because Mr S was referred to and 
saw a psychiatrist for a mental illness, I would also argue that the CMHT are a team of 
specialists to which Mr S was referred.
In reaching this view, Ive thought carefully about the comments Mrs S has made to our 
Service. In particular, she said that Acute Psychotic disorder is a medical term they werent 
aware of and Mr S understood his symptoms to be part of his anxiety and depression. 
And having considered the relevant medical evidence, I havent seen anything that 
categorically shows this specific term was used by medical professionals when discussing 
Mr Ss symptoms with him and his family. The disorder itself is mentioned in the psychiatrist 
report and in the discharge notes from the CMHT at that time. But these are the only two 
places it appears. What is listed in the original referral and assessment by the CMHT is 
known depression with increased features of psychosis. Ive also seen no evidence Mr S 
saw the community mental health team again following his discharge in late June 2011 such 
that I think this diagnosis would have been discussed further. The GP notes from during or 
after this assessment dont mention this condition.
However, what the medical evidence does show was that Mr S experienced visual and 
auditory hallucinations in June and August 2011 and was prescribed anti-psychotic 
medication to manage this. This then led to a specialist referral to, appointments with and 
treatment by the CMHT. As well as an assessment by a consultant psychiatrist. All of which I 
think would have been significant and therefore memorable.So, even if I were to accept that Mr S likely thought the mental illness he saw the CMHT and 
the consultant psychiatrist for was anxiety and depression, I think he still should have 
answered yes to the first question.
Where I think material information has been omitted, I need to consider what would have 
happened had the correct answer been given.
For the purposes of this application, generic additional forms were available that asked 
further questions about positive answers. It is not entirely clear from the application form 
whether more than one form needed to be completed where the same condition leads to 
more than one positive answer. However, I note that Mr S answered the second two 
questions outlined above yes and submitted only one further form in connection with both 
disclosures. Mr Ss application was accepted on this basis and so Im satisfied that at that 
time, Prudential was willing to accept one form per declared condition rather than per 
answer.
In the further form submitted, Mr S declared his anxiety and depression. He did not declare 
Acute Psychotic disorder. But if I were to accept Mrs Ss account of how Mr S understood his 
illness, he may not have known to declare this separately.
That being said, having reviewed the form Mr S did complete, Im still satisfied Prudential 
can fairly conclude Mr S ought to have added more information. Key for me here is the fact 
Mr S was again asked if he saw a specialist for his condition. It then asked for the 
specialists name, address and the last date he saw them and whether he was still attending. 
But Mr S gave only his GP details. This question is specific and clear. It is correct that Mr S 
did see his GP about this issue. But he also saw the CHMT on multiple occasions 
throughout June 2011, less than a year before his application. This included seeing a 
consultant psychiatrist. As outlined above, I think this would have been memorable given its 
significance and how recent it was. So, I still think Prudential can fairly say Mr S omitted 
material information that he ought to have known was relevant.
What would have happened?
Prudential has said that a declaration of the referral to the CMHT and the psychiatrist in 
2011 would have prompted a request for a full GP report. And it ultimately wouldnt have 
offered Mr S the policy.
The trusts representatives have disagreed. Mrs Ss account is that an underwriter said they 
would likely have charged more but would still have offered Mr S policy. Mrs S noted Mr S 
would have been willing to pay a higher premium as the policy was being paid for by a trust.
I have seen no evidence to show that an underwriter said this to Mrs S, nor what information 
they were given at the point they said this. But even if she was told this, I have personally 
reviewed the underwriting evidence provided by Prudential in connection with this complaint. 
And having done so, Im satisfied that this information would have changed the underwriting 
outcome, so I do think these omissions were material misrepresentations.
Specifically, I think the underwriters would have reviewed Mr Ss particular circumstances 
and would not have offered cover.
Due to the fact underwriting information is commercially sensitive, Im not in a position to 
share this evidence with S or its representatives. But Id like to reassure them that Ive 
carefully considered this when reaching this decision.Prudential classified this as a deliberate misrepresentation. Our Investigator felt careless 
was a more appropriate classification. However, I dont feel it is necessary for me to reach a 
finding on this point as the action that Prudential has taken would be appropriate for either 
categorisation.
I say this noting that I dont feel it can be argued that the categorisation of innocent 
misrepresentation applies here. And thats because I think the evidence suggests Mr S 
ought to have known he needed to declare the information on his application set out above.
Given Prudential would never have offered Mr S cover, Im of the opinion that its avoidance 
of the policy and refusal of the claim with a full refund of the premiums paid, is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr G as 
trustees of the S Trust to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman