DRN-3615379
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a package bank 
account.
What happened
Miss T took out a Select account in May 1999 that was upgraded to a Gold account in April 
2009. Prior to this complaint being brought to us, Lloyds upheld Miss Ts complaint about the 
sale of her Select account. So, I have not considered the sale of the Select account in my 
decision.
One of our Adjudicators considered Miss Ts complaint about the sale of her Gold account 
but didnt think it should be upheld. As Miss T disagreed this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
This decision will only be considering the complaint Miss T has raised about being mis-sold 
her Gold account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
Miss T explained that at the time her account was upgraded she had recently broken up with 
her partner and was vulnerable. Miss T has told us that Lloyds made her upgrade her 
account despite her being happy with the account she already held.
Its been agreed that Lloyds made a recommendation to Miss T that she should upgrade
her account to a Gold account. This means that it had to ensure that the account was a good 
fit for Miss Ts circumstances at the time. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time the Gold account was sold 
to Miss T as the sale took place a long time ago and businesses arent required to keep this 
type of information indefinitely.
Lloyds has provided a copy of its system notes where records of contact between Miss T 
and Lloyds were recorded at the time of the sale. As these notes were made at the actual 
time the account was sold to Miss T I find the evidence persuasive.
At the time Miss Ts account was upgraded a note was recorded on the Lloyds system. It 
stated:
Account upgraded to gold a/c to take advantage of worldwide travel insurance, as customer 
is going on holiday later this year
Lloyds has also explained that worldwide travel insurance was not available on any of the 
lower level package bank accounts it offered.
Miss T has explained that she didnt travel in the year she was sold the account and didnt 
travel for several years after. She is unable to reason why she would have agreed to 
upgrade her account as she did not benefit from the cover that came with it.
I appreciate Miss T was going through a difficult time when her account was upgraded but I 
think the note made at the time of the sale shows that the worldwide travel insurance benefit 
that came with the Gold account was discussed, and on balance I think it was a benefit of 
the account that Miss T thought would be useful to her. Although Miss T has told us she 
didnt travel in the year the account was sold to her, it doesnt mean it wasnt her intention to 
travel, and she could have benefited from the policy if she had.
In addition to the worldwide travel insurance benefit provided under the Gold account the 
benefit of up to £100 interest free overdraft was also included, which was not available under 
Miss Ts previous Select account. I can see from Miss Ts bank statements that she made 
use of her overdraft facility so I think this benefit would have been useful for her. 
The Gold account also included motor breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and 
sentinel card protection that Miss T would have been eligible for should she have chosen to 
use the benefits.
I note Miss Ts comments that the Lloyds representative may have received a commission 
for selling her the Gold account. But even if this was the case, based on the above I think 
that upgrading to the Gold account was a reasonable recommendation based on Miss Ts 
circumstance and the information Lloyds gathered at the time, I dont think Miss T was mis-
sold her Gold account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman