DRN-4433335
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S are unhappy with HSBC t/a First Direct. Mr P and Mrs S said First Direct 
had leaked their private information to third parties and they want compensation for this 
dating back over the past few years.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs S said they updated their account details and records with First Direct back in 
2019. But for some reason (and First Direct do accept responsibility for this) only Mr Ps 
records were updated. First Direct apologised and offered £150 compensation. Mr P and 
Mrs S turned this amount down. Mr P and Mrs S maintain that third parties had access to 
their personal and transaction details. Mr P and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.
Once the complaint was with this service First Direct said it hadnt been made aware of any 
actual consequences. But it did accept Mr P and Mrs Ss details being sent to an incorrect 
address would have been a worry and upsetting for Mr P and Mrs S. In view of this First 
Direct agreed to increase the compensation offer to a total of £300.
Our investigator thought that was a fair and reasonable amount and contacted Mr P and 
Mrs S to make that offer. It was declined, but during the discussion about the offer our 
investigator thought Mr P and Mrs S had given her the impression they would accept £600.
Our investigator went back to First Direct to ask them to consider making a further and 
higher offer of £600 in total. First Direct did come back and said it was willing to increase the 
offer to this amount.
Our investigator made the further offer to Mr P and Mrs S. But they came back and said this 
wasnt what they wanted. Mr P and Mrs S said they wanted £600 each rather than £600 in 
total. First Direct wasnt willing to increase its offer any further.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She upheld it on the basis of the increased offer of 
£600 in total. She accepted that First Directs mistakes had caused Mr P and Mrs S worry 
and upset. But in line with what she thought Mr P and Mrs S had asked for our investigator 
said the £600 in total was fair and reasonable compensation.
As Mr P and Mrs S didnt accept this their complaint was passed on for a final decision from 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Mrs S have no evidence to suggest their personal information has been used or 
corrupted in anyway. But its clear that First Direct accept Mr P and Mrs S would have been 
worried and upset by the mistakes it made. I agree this would still be a worry for them. First 
Direct increased the offer to £300 once the complaint had reached this service and then 
when asked to double the award to £600 it agreed. In fairness to First Direct it may only 
have agreed to the £600 as it was given the impression by our investigator that Mr P and 
Mrs S would accept that amount to conclude their complaint.
For me to look to make a higher award Id need to see evidence showing me the problems 
Mr P and Mrs S faced. Ive not seen any further details to show this. First Direct have 
apologised and made the offer of £600 in total. Based on the worry, upset and impact on 
Mr P and Mrs S I think thats a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Putting things right
pay Mr S and Mrs P a total amount of £600 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require HSBC t/a First Direct to:
pay Mr S and Mrs P a total amount of £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman