DRN-4453707
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly provided 
her with a credit card account and credit limit increases (CLIs) that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2013, Ms Y applied for, and obtained, a Barclaycard account. The credit limit was 
set at £400 and increases to the credit limit were applied in December 2015, August 2016 
and April 2017. 
In 2022, Ms Y complained to Barclays that it had lent to her irresponsibly, causing her 
financial difficulty and poor mental health. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks which 
showed Ms Y could afford the credit it had provided her with.
Unhappy with Barclayss response, Ms Y complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that Ms Ys complaint should be upheld. They believed, in essence, that 
Barclays should have carried out more checks regarding the second and third CLIs but that, 
ultimately, none of the lending decisions it had made on the account were unfair. 
Ms Y didnt agree with the investigators findings. She mentioned she had a career 
development loan with Barclays before the start of the credit card account. Ms Y also sent 
bank statements showing her current account was in overdraft prior to, and around the time 
of, the account opening and first CLI. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays was required to complete proportionate affordability checks prior to advancing 
credit to Ms Y. Whats considered proportionate will vary in each case as it is unique to each 
lending decision. In deciding how thorough a check should be, Barclays needed to consider 
things such as (but not limited to) the amount of credit being advanced, the type of credit, the 
size and frequency of the repayments, the cost of the borrowing and Ms Ys personal 
circumstances.
I can see that Barclays did obtain some information about Ms Ys financial circumstances at 
the start of the account in 2013 and regarding the first CLI to £900 in 2015. The checks 
carried out by the credit reference agencies (CRAs) presumably included the loan Ms Ys 
referred to as they included other borrowing and showed no signs of adverse information on 
her credit file. And, by the time of the first CLI, Barclays had gathered almost three years of 
data on how Ms Y had been managing her existing account up to that point. The signs were 
that Ms Y was coping financially, including with her existing levels of credit. 
Ive seen the copy current account statements Ms Ys sent in more recently for 2013 and the 
period September 2015 to January 2016  that is, predominantly the period at the start of the 
credit card account and the first CLI. But, given the nature of the credit Barclays had offered 
at that time and the information it had already gathered, I dont think it should have 
requested sight of those statements or similar. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think it was unfair of Barclays to have lent to Ms Y in 
2013 and 2015.
Regarding the second and third CLIs, the requirements for Barclays to carry out 
proportionate checks were essentially the same as for the previous lending decisions. One 
difference in 2016 and 2017 was that the amount of credit being afforded to Ms Y was 
becoming a fair amount larger at £1,300 and £2,000 respectively.
The credit checks Barclays undertook on these occasions also highlighted that the level of 
credit Ms Y held with third-parties had increased to between £10,000 and £15,000. Repaying 
these debts might have taken up a comparatively high proportion of her income. Despite 
that, Barclays didnt investigate further before applying the CLIs. In contrast to what Ive said 
about the start of the account and the first CLI, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Barclays to have done further checks.
Ive gone on to think about what Barclays might have discovered had it probed further 
regarding Ms Ys finances in 2016 and 2017. I appreciate Ms Y providing us with copies of 
her bank statements to give some insight here. On reviewing these statements, I cant see 
any strong indication that she was struggling with her finances. She was paying for her 
existing credit using a regular and steady monthly income which was more than enough to 
meet those commitments. Ms Y was no longer in regular use of the overdraft facility that 
shed been using previously. Bearing in mind the levels of additional credit Barclays was 
offering Ms Y in 2016 and 2017, theres little to suggest she didnt have the capacity to 
continue to manage. 
So, I dont think it was unfair of Barclays to have lent to Ms Y in 2016 and 2017 either.
Im sorry that Ms Ys suffered poor mental health. I realise she largely blames Barclays for 
this and says her medical conditions affected her spending habits. But I cant see that Ms Y 
made Barclays aware of the difficulties she was facing, or that it ought to have been aware, 
such that it could have treated Ms Y more sympathetically as a result. So, I dont consider 
that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman