DRN-4236062
The complaint
Ms V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over £12,000 she says she 
lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms V says she fell victim to an investment scam, where she 
made several international debit-card payments to a broker (S) from her HSBC account 
between 14 and 18 June 2021. 
Ms V told HSBC she had been scammed, but it refused to refund the money she lost as she 
had authorised the transactions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt satisfied there was enough evidence 
to suggest that S was operating a scam, as it is a regulated company. So, he didnt think 
there was any need for HSBC to have suspected a scam or to have intervened. Ms V 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations, guidance and good industry practice make it clear that banks 
ought fairly and reasonably to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, 
including fraud and scams. But the expectation to warn customers of the risk of such 
financial harm will only reasonably have been engaged if there were sufficient grounds 
for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; meaning that HSBC could have delayed the 
payments while concerns about the payee were discussed with Ms V.
So, I would need to be satisfied that S was operating a scam when the disputed 
payments were made in June 2021 in order to expect HSBC to have done anything 
further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment 
traders (such as CFD merchants like S) may use sales methods, or communication 
styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses 
incurred because of a disappointing return on an investment thats been promoted. Even 
so, not all complaints to us involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways 
and means of these businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that 
doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for 
fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning 
list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there 
were no warnings about S at the time these payments were made. The broker is still 
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC). And while it 
may no longer be authorised by the FCA, at the time Ms V made the payments, it was 
authorised to operate in the UK under the Temporary Permission Regime (up until 
November 2022).
So, overall Im not persuaded the investment firm can be said to have been fraudulent or 
operating a scam. As a result, HSBC wouldnt have been expected to intervene. There 
was the inevitable risk of Ms Vs investments returning a loss based on market 
performance. But HSBC isnt required to protect its consumers from the risk of financial 
loss due to investment advice or bad bargains.Therefore, I dont consider HSBC acted 
unfairly by failing to intervene or question Ms V about these payments.
Ms V has suggested that she may have been dealing with a clone of the authorised 
investment firm (although the screenshots of her trading platform seem to suggest it was 
the website of the legitimate investment company). But even if I were to accept that she 
was dealing with a clone, and that HSBC ought to have intervened and questioned her 
about the payments, there would have been very little to suggest that she was dealing 
with a clone or falling for a scam. Ive seen no warnings about a potential clone company 
operating under the guise of S. So, any warning from HSBC for Ms V to carry out further 
research into the firms legitimacy would have been unlikely to yield any results that 
would have ultimately prevented the payments from being made, as she would have only 
likely found information about S as the legitimate and regulated firm. 
Given Ms V made the disputed payments via debit card, there is sometimes the 
possibility that she could have sought to recover her funds via a chargeback claim. 
However, Ms V didnt dispute the transactions with HSBC within the relevant time period 
allowed (120 days) by Visa, so I dont consider it acted unreasonably by failing to pursue 
a claim in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms V, but in the circumstances I 
dont think HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable for the money she had lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman