DRN-3228328
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions (Hitachi).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr F responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). 
Mr F says the business didnt take account of the length of his lease or the mileage of the 
car when it was handed back; I disagree. The BVRLA guidance says that inspectors will do 
so, and I can see the inspector was trained to assess to that standard. 
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection report 
completed at handover. Im persuaded the scratches to the wing and door and the scuffs to 
the alloy wheels are all in excess of the fair wear and tear guidance. The guidance also says 
that charges can be made for missing items and I therefore think Hitachi have been fair to do 
so.
Im not persuaded the dent to the quarter panel has been fairly charged. The guidance says 
dents of less than 15mm are acceptable as long as theyre not on the swage line and I think 
that applies to this dent. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
Hitachi should waive the £60 charge they made to fix the dent in the quarter panel.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to waive the charge they have asked Mr F to pay to refurbish the dent on the quarter 
panel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman