DRN-2330143
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont refund him 
for transactions he says he didnt make or authorise totalling just under £8,000.
What happened
Mr S has a Barclaycard credit card. His wife, Mrs K, is an authorised user of the account.
On 31 August 2018, an individual pretending to be Mr S, called Barclaycard using a 
telephone number linked to Mrs K. After clearing security, the caller changed the address on 
the account, asked for a new card to be sent out to the new address and was able to listen 
to the PIN via an automated message. 
Between 9 and 12 September 2018 , several transactions were made from Mr Ss account, 
to a number of different retailers, using the new card which Barclaycard sent out following 
the call on 31 August 2018. On 11 September 2018 Barclaycard tried to contact Mr S about 
the transactions and left a message on his home number asking him to get in touch. Mr S 
didnt contact Barclaycard until 20 September 2018.
On 20 September 2018, a cheque for £9,300 was paid into Mr Ss Barclaycard account. 
Barclays received a notification from the payees bank that the cheque was fraudulent. So, 
returned it unpaid. 
When Mr S spoke to Barclays on 20 September 2018, he explained that he didnt know 
anything about the transactions and that it wasnt him whod called on 31 August 2018 to 
change his address or order a new card. Mr S couldnt explain how someone else was able 
to know the personal information about him needed to pass security. During the call the 
changed address was also discussed. Mr S was able to provide the county where the 
address was located before, hed been given that information by the advisor. But he 
maintained he didnt know anyone at the address where the new card had been sent. Mr S 
asked Barclaycard to look into what had happened and refund the transactions. At the end of 
the call Barclaycard set up a password on the account to prevent further fraud.
Following Mr Ss call, later that day, a further call was made by someone pretending to be 
Mr S using Mrs Ks mobile phone. The caller wanted to find out the balance on the account, 
however they werent able to provide the newly created password so failed security. Later, 
the same evening another call was made by someone purporting to be Mr S, this time from 
Mr Ss home phone number, asking for the balance of the account. 
On 30 November 2019, Mr S visited a branch and spoke to Barclaycard about its fraud 
investigation. During the conversation Barclaycard told Mr S that the call on 31 August 2018 
was made from the mobile number linked to Mrs K. Mr S couldnt explain how an unknown 
third party was able to use his wifes phone to obtain a new card for his account and said, 
hed check at home. When asked if hed been approached by anyone else to use his 
account, Mr S said, not as far as I know. And he maintained he didnt know anything about 
the cheque for £9,300 which was paid into his account.
Barclaycard investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded 
that it was likely Mr S authorised the transactions. In summary it said:
It accepted it wasnt Mr S whod called and asked for a new card to be sent out 
and changed the address on the account. But there was no plausible explanation 
for how an unknown third party could have been aware of the information needed 
to pass security. 
The third party who had impersonated Mr S used Mrs Ks mobile phone and 
Mr Ss landline to contact Barclaycard on 31 August 2018 and 20 September 
2018 to arrange for another card to be sent to a different address and check the 
account balance.
Mr S was able to provide information about where the fraudsters address was 
located despite not being provided with this detail when he spoke to Barclaycard 
and stating he didnt know anyone at the address.
Mr S disagreed with Barclaycards decision. He said Barclaycard should have done more to 
stop the transactions and checked the CCTV. He said the whole experience has impacted 
his health and hes suffered a great deal of stress.  He wants Barclaycard to refund him. So, 
he brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. 
Based on the evidence the investigator thought Mr S jhad more likely than not authorised the 
transactions. In summary she said there was no plausible explanation for how an unknown 
third party could gain access to Mrs Ks mobile phone and be aware of Mr Ss personal 
information needed to pass security to arrange for a new card to be issued. She also said it 
was unlikely that a fraudster wouldve used the card over a number of days. Mr S disagreed.  
He said he didnt know anything about the transactions and said someone had also changed 
the address on his other bank cards.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and Barclaycard have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
evidence. 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr S authorised the 
payments, Barclaycard is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr S says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mr S authorised the transactions either by making them himself or allowing a third party 
to do so.  
But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Barclaycard to hold Mr S liable for the transactions. So, I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S consented to the transactions 
being made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
In this case, Barclaycard has been able to provide evidence that the genuine card and PIN 
were used. So, Im satisfied that the payments from Mr Ss account were authenticated. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr S did consent to the transactions 
he is disputing. I say this because:
Barclaycards technical records show the transactions were made using the card 
which was sent out following the call on 31 August 2018. Having listened to the 
recording of this call and other calls between Mr S and Barclaycard, Im satisfied that 
it wasnt Mr S who called Barclaycard on 31 August 201. But theres no plausible 
explanation for how an unknown third party could do this without Mr Ss consent. 
Given the level and type of security in place on Mr Ss account this seems 
impossible. I say this because the person impersonating Mr S was able to provide 
how old Mr S would be on his next birthday, details of other accounts he had, his 
mothers maiden name and who he lived with. I think it unlikely that an unknown third 
party would be able to guess this information correctly. And Mr S hasnt told us that 
his personal information had been stolen or that hed given this information to anyone 
else. 
The call on 31 August 2018 was made from Mrs Ks mobile phone. Ive not seen any 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party would be able to gain access to 
Mrs Ks mobile phone to make this call. I note that when Barclaycard shared this 
information with Mr S and asked him for an explanation, he simply said hed need to 
check at home. I dont know what (if anything) Mr S discovered. But he hasnt shared 
the outcome of any checks he made at home. I can also see that the mobile phone 
was used more than once to contact Barclaycard by someone pretending to be Mr S. 
This means the fraudster needed access to Mrs Ks phone over a period of several 
days. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs Ks mobile was lost or 
stolen at the time. So I think its likely that whoever made the calls using the mobile 
phone did so with consent. 
I note too that Mr S hasnt been able to offer any explanation for how the fraudster 
was able to use his home telephone number to contact Barclaycard on 20 September 
2018 to check on the balance of his account. This means the fraudster wouldve 
needed access to Mr Ss home to use his landline. I think its unlikely that an 
unknown third party without any connection to Mr S wouldve been able to do this.
Mr S also knew in which county the address was located where the card used to 
make the disputed transaction was sent  this wasnt information that was given to 
him by Barclaycard. So, taken together this all suggests to me that Mr S knows rather 
more about the fraudulent activity on his account than hes been prepared to tell us 
and Barclaycard. 
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit from 
the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. Instead the disputed transactions took place days 
apart.  
The card wasnt used to make or attempt any further transactions after Mr S called 
Barclaycard to discuss the disputed transactions on 20 September 2018. Barclaycard 
cancelled the card following this conversation, which was information known only to 
Mr S and Barlaycard. So, I cant see how an unknown third party wouldve become 
aware that they wouldnt be able to continue to use the card to make or attempt 
further transactions unless Mr S shared this information.  
Ive considered what Mr S has said about CCTV footage. However, whilst Mr S might not have appeared in the footage, it doesnt rule out the possibility that he allowed 
someone else to use his card.
Ive also considered the cheque which was paid into Mr Ss account for £9,300. 
Barclaycard were notified that the cheque was fraudulent and returned it unpaid. 
Mr S has said he knows nothing about this cheque. But I think this is unlikely as 
thered be no benefit to a fraudster clearing Mr Ss credit card balance. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. Based on 
the evidence, the most likely explanation is that Mr S authorised the disputed transactions 
and allowed someone else to use his account. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for 
me to ask Barclaycard to refund Mr S.
Mr S has said Barclaycard bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped them 
from going through. So, the banks at fault and should refund him the money he says hes 
lost. Mr S is right that Barclaycard has a responsibility to monitor any unusual or suspicious 
payments  however, Im afraid in Mr Ss case Im satisfied that these payments didnt fit this 
criteria. I say this as the payments werent unusually large, they were carried out using 
Mr Ss bank card and PIN.
In summary, my primary task has been to decide if Mr S authorised the disputed 
transactions. I cant decide he didnt authorise them just because Barclaycard didnt block 
the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view connects him to the disputed 
transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman