DRN-3128381
The complaint
A charity Ill refer to as E has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due 
to Covid-19.
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy after closing 
on 20 March 2020 due to two employees having symptoms of Covid-19. E said the 
employees called 111 and their GP and were told they had symptoms of Covid-19 but 
testing wasnt available. E said, as the advice from Public Health England (PHE) at that time 
was to quarantine, it made the decision to close. E was then required to remain closed 
following the Governments response to the national pandemic. E said it had closed on the 
advice of a government authority due to an occurrence of an infectious or contagious 
disease at its premises. 
RSA turned down Es claim. It said while someone at Es premises might have had Covid-
19, there wasnt an enforced closure due to that person. RSA said if E had been told to close 
after contacting PHE, it would accept that this was evidence of someone at its premises 
having Covid-19. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, E brought its complaint to our service. It said it was 
unreasonable for RSA to expect it to have contacted PHE when PHE had already issued 
guidance that applied to its circumstances.
E provided an email from an employee (who Ill refer to as R). This email said another 
employee, who Ill refer to as M, became ill on 17 March 2020 and R became ill the next day. 
R said they called 111 and their GP who indicated it was likely they had Covid-19. R said 
they were sent an antibody test which produced a negative result. E also sent a copy of its 
staff sickness record for March 2020 and a copy of the rota to show the employees had been 
at the premises around the time they became unwell.  
RSA said E hadnt shown it was most likely that someone at its premises had Covid-19, so 
they still didnt think Es claim was covered. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
E should be penalised for not having contacted PHE. However, he thought RSA had fairly 
turned down Es claim, as he didnt think E had demonstrated that it was most likely 
someone at its premises had Covid-19. 
 
E didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
thought its decision to close should be taken in the context of the knowledge available to its 
trustees at the time, which included two medically trained doctors, as well as the guidance 
from PHE.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
Es policy has an extension for infectious diseases. The relevant part of this says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof 
on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an 
outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of 
which is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be 
notified
I dont intend to make a finding on whether the PHE guidance for households on Covid-19 
meant E needed to close. I say that because, the policy requires the closure of the premises 
to have been as a result of an outbreak or occurrence at the premises of a notifiable human 
infectious or contagious disease. 
So, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to decide that E has demonstrated that there 
was most likely a case of Covid-19, or other notifiable disease, at its business premises. I 
dont think E has shown this is most likely and Ill explain why.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As 
with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
E clearly acted on the belief that its employees had Covid-19, as it took the decision to close 
its premises. However, I only have the testimony from E and an email from R dated October 
2020 to indicate that the employees illnesses were Covid-19. R said they were sent an 
antibody test, which I think supports their position that medical experts thought Rs illness 
could be Covid-19. However, R confirmed that in May 2020 the antibody test produced a 
negative result for Covid-19. 
I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at this time didnt have Covid-19. 
And given that I only have E and Rs testimony to support that R and M had Covid-19 and 
Rs antibody test produced a negative result, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Es premises. That means I dont think this 
extension provides cover for Es claim. I understand E took a decision at that time, based on the knowledge and evidence it had available, but the policy doesnt cover it for those 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome E was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Es claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman