DRN-4454821
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Redline Finance (Redline) had been misrepresented.
Ms R has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Mr R.  For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any action taken, by either Ms R or Mr R as 
Ms R throughout the decision.
What happened
In June 2022, Ms R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Redline. She part-exchanged her existing car for £9,000 and paid the supplying dealership 
£2,000. Once the finance on her existing car was cleared, this left £628.26 which was put 
down as a deposit for the car being supplied by Redline. The agreement was for £18,621.74 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £286.01 and a final payment of £9,306. The 
supplying dealership also acted as the credit broker in this instance.
In July 2022, Ms R contacted the dealership. She said the car she part-exchanged was of 
the same make, model, and age as the car she was supplied with by Redline, but the 
dealership only valued her car at £9,000; while the car she was supplied was valued in 
excess of £20,000. She was also unhappy that she wasnt advised about the poor value of 
ending her previous agreement over three years into it. She indicated that she wanted to 
withdraw from the new agreement and be returned to her earlier agreement. In response, 
the dealership offered to take the car back, cancel the agreement, and refund the payment 
shed already made.
Ms R wasnt happy with this, and she said the dealership had treated her request for 
information as a formal complaint. So, Ms R raised a complaint about being sold an 
unaffordable car, about the rate of interest she was being charged, about the valuation the 
dealership had put on the car shed part-exchanged, and about the dealership selling the car 
shed part-exchanged, instead of returning this to her. Ms R also said that the agreement 
shed signed was void because the mileage on the car had been materially misrepresented.
The dealership didnt agree there had been any mis-selling, but they offered Ms R £150 as a 
goodwill gesture due to administrative errors that took place in the sales process.
In September 2022, after receiving an arrears notice from Redline, Ms R complained to 
them, saying the agreement had been rescinded due to the mileage misrepresentation, and 
because she hadnt signed the substitute agreement, provided by the dealership, showing 
the correct mileage. She also said that the dealership had agreed to cancel the agreement 
on 1 August 2022, and the car had been returned to them on 6 August 2022.
Redline responded to say the dealership provided Ms R with sufficient information to make 
an informed decision, and that the offer to end the agreement and refund the payments 
made was fair. They also explained that, if Ms R didnt accept this offer, she would need to 
collect the car from the dealership and resume payments. Ms R wasnt happy with this 
response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
When bringing her complaint, Ms R also said that documents she was promised were never 
sent, she raised concerns over the validity of an electronic signature being used on 
documents, and said that Redline didnt investigate her complaint properly.
Our investigator said that, although Ms R had raised issues about both the dealership and 
Redline; we were only able to consider her complaint about Redline, as she intends to 
complain about the dealership separately.
The investigator thought the evidence showed Ms R had been provided with sufficient 
information at the time of the sale to allow her to make an informed decision. And he said 
that a financial business is entitled to make a commercial decision about the goods and 
services it offers, including what interest rate would be charged.
With regards to the mileage, the investigator said the order form showed the car had done 
42,351 miles at the point of supply, while all other documentation (including the hire 
purchase agreement itself) showed a mileage of 42,531  a difference of 180 miles due to a 
transposed figure. However, as the hire purchase agreement stated the correct figure, the 
investigator didnt think there had been any misrepresentation.
Turning to the signature Ms R was querying, the investigator said this was on a document 
dated 28 June 2022, which happened after the hire purchase agreement had been signed 
and came into force on 23 June 2022. As such, he didnt think this was a matter for Redline. 
Whats more, he didnt think that a second order form (showing the correct mileage) was 
sufficient to say the agreement with Redline had been cancelled, especially as the 
agreement quoted the correct mileage details. As such, Ms R was liable for the payments 
under this agreement.
The Investigator explained that the Consumer Credit Act says that, when a consumer 
withdraws from a finance agreement, they must also repay anything owing under that 
agreement. So, while Ms R had the right of withdrawal, this didnt mean she wasnt required 
to pay Redline what she owed them. Whats more, Redline had an obligation to report any 
missed payments to the credit reference agencies, so the investigator didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly by doing this.
In March 2023, Redline agreed to allow the dealership to buy back the car for £15,000 
which, along with the deposit and payment Ms R had paid, came to a total of £15,914.27. 
Redline accepted this as full and final settlement of the agreement, writing off the remaining 
£2,700 plus interest Ms R owed. They also removed all adverse information relating to this 
agreement from Ms Rs credit file. The investigator thought Redline had acted reasonably by 
doing this and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Finally, the investigator said that Redline hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when they agreed the finance Ms R had applied for. So, he went on to consider what 
these checks wouldve shown. After reviewing Ms Rs bank statements, the investigator said 
that, had Redline carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, they wouldve found the 
payments were sustainably affordable for Ms R.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigator. She said the underlying basis of the investigators 
view seemed to be that Redline accepting a lower offer from the dealership was sufficient for 
them to do nothing more. But she thought this was irrelevant to whats considered fair 
treatment of the customer. She also said that Redline removing adverse information from her 
credit file was an admittance it should never have been there in the first place. And the 
investigators view seemed to mean that a regulated business can act however it likes, so long as it corrects this behaviour once a complaint has been raised to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Ms R also said that the contract was affirmed on 28 June 2022, and she cancelled within 
14-days, which entitles her to a full refund of what shes paid. However, the investigator said 
that she would still be liable for the full amount owing under the agreement. Which she 
considered was an unreasonable and unenforceable condition within Redlines contract.
Finally, Ms R was unhappy that Redline didnt conduct reasonable checks, but have got 
away with this because reasonable checks wouldve shown the agreement to be affordable. 
Because Ms R didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its extremely important for me to set 
out exactly what Ive been able to consider here. I note Ms R has complained about how 
Redline handled and responded to her complaint. However, complaint handling is an 
unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction to consider. So, the way 
Redline handled Ms Rs complaint hasnt been considered as part of my decision.
Ive also noted Ms Rs extensive comments about how she considers the dealership were 
acting wholly as an agent for Redline in this matter. As such, she doesnt think its 
reasonable for me to consider this matter before her complaint about the dealership has 
been fully investigated, and then to decide on both matters together.
While the dealership was acting as a credit broker when arranging the agreement with 
Redline, I dont agree they were acting wholly as an agent for Redline in all matters. I say 
this because the dealership was able to sell the car to Ms R without either arranging any 
finance, or by arranging finance with another lender. Given this, while I will consider the 
dealerships credit broking activities as part of my decision, Im satisfied Im able to reach a 
conclusion without having to consider the dealerships non-credit broking activities, as these 
have no bearing on Redline. As such, I dont need to wait until the complaint into the 
dealerships actions has been investigated, and then consider both complaints as one whole.
The basic facts in this matter arent disputed, and the key elements have already been set 
out above. As such, I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on the remaining points of 
contention, namely those raised in Ms Rs comments on the investigators view.The main point of contention is the misrepresentation and whether Ms R was given sufficient 
information to make an informed decision. For there to have been misrepresentation there 
needs to have been a false statement of fact AND the false statement mustve induced Ms R 
into an agreement she otherwise wouldnt have entered into.
As Ive said, its not disputed that the order form had an incorrect mileage recorded - 42,351 
instead of 42,531. Im satisfied this was a clear error due to a transposed figure, which gave 
the impression the car had done 180 miles less than it actually had. However, the hire 
purchase agreement that Ms R signed on 23 June 2022 clearly and correctly states the car 
had done 42,531 miles. Whats more, upon inspecting the car, Ms R would also have seen 
the correct mileage showing on the odometer. As such, Im not satisfied there was a false 
statement of fact.
However, even if I were to say the incorrect mileage on one document made it a false 
statement of fact, I still need to consider that it was this false statement of fact that induced 
Ms R to purchase the car. And I havent seen anything to show me that the mileage was so 
important to Ms R that she wouldnt have taken the car had she known it had done 180 more 
miles than she believed. As such, I dont think Ms R was induced to take the car just 
because of a single instance of an incorrect mileage figure quoted on the paperwork.
Turning to the rest of the paperwork, all the information on this regarding the sale price of the 
car Ms R agreed to is correctly shown. As is the interest rate, monthly payments, and total 
amount payable. As such, Im satisfied that Redline didnt misrepresent the sale or the 
agreement to Ms R.
Ive seen a Statement of Account for the agreement between Ms R and Redline. This clearly 
shows that the agreement started on 23 June 2022, which Ive noted is also the same day 
Ms R signed the hire purchase agreement. Ms R has stated that she cancelled the 
agreement within 14-days of it coming into force. As such, she believes shes entitled to a 
refund of all the money she paid.
Ive reviewed the Hire Purchase agreement, and this says:
RIGHT OF WITHDRAWAL
You have a right to withdraw from this Agreement without having to give a reason. 
The right to withdraw starts on the day the Agreement is made and ends on the 
expiry of 14 days beginning with the date after that day. To withdraw you must notify 
us in writing  If you withdraw you must repay the Amount of Credit shown above 
together with any interest at the interest rate shown above accrued from the date of 
this Agreement to the date of Repayment without delay and no later than 30 calendar 
days after giving notice to withdraw.
As the agreement came into force on 23 June 2022, this means Ms R would need to advise 
Redline of her wish to withdraw by no later than 7 July 2022 and repay the £18,621.74 plus 
any accrued interest at 7.9% APR by no later than 6 August 2022 (assuming notice was 
given on the latest date possible  7 July 2022).
However, the email Ms Rs provided, which confirms she wants to exercise her right of 
withdrawal and wants to return the car, is dated 12 July 2022. And this was only sent to the 
dealership. This request was clearly made more than 14-days after the hire purchase 
agreement came into force, and wasnt made to Redline, as required. As such, I dont agree 
that Ms R exercised her right to withdraw from the agreement.
But, if Redline were to have accepted Ms Rs late email to the dealership as exercising her 
right to withdraw from the agreement, then she was still required to repay the amount outstanding within 30 days, which she didnt do. This is because withdrawing from the 
agreement is fundamentally separate from returning the car; and its perfectly possible for a 
customer to withdraw from the agreement, repaying the amount owed from private funds, 
refinancing etc., and still keep the car.
While Ive noted that Ms R believes this withdrawal term, and the requirement to repay the 
amount owing, to be an unreasonable and unenforceable term, I dont agree. And I dont 
think it would have been reasonable for Ms R to have withdrawn from the agreement without 
repaying the amount owing  as Ive said, withdrawing from the agreement and returning the 
car are separate, not linked, transactions. However, if Ms R continues to believe the 
agreement contains unenforceable terms, I think that this is a legal matter and is something 
best dealt with by the courts.
Ive also seen that, on 1 August 2022, the dealership agreed to buy back the car from Ms R, 
repay the finance agreement, and refund the payment of £286.01 shed made. In response 
to this, on 2 August 2022, Ms R sent the dealership a Pre-Action Letter, indicating she would 
pursue legal action against them if they didnt return the car shed sold them in part-
exchange, return all monies that shes paid, and void the finance agreement.
The car was returned to the dealership on 6 August 2022. However, from Ms Rs email the 
same day, this was done with the expectation that the dealership would return the part-
exchange car and all the monies Ms R had paid. As such, Im satisfied that Ms R didnt 
accept the offer from the dealership. And the dealership, who didnt agree to Ms Rs terms, 
said that unless she accepted their offer, she would be required to collect the car.
As Ms R didnt agree to the dealerships terms, the point of disagreement being the refund of 
the deposit, and after lengthy negotiations with Redline, the car was purchased by the 
dealership, the agreement cleared with any outstanding balance waived, and the agreement 
ended. Redline also changed their reporting on Ms Rs credit file to remove any adverse 
information. Again, Ive noted Ms Rs extensive comments on this matter, and why she 
thinks this was unfair.
However, Ive considered this in line with the request to withdraw from the agreement made 
on 12 June 2022. And Im satisfied that Ms R is in the same position now as she wouldve 
been had she made her request to withdraw both in time and to the correct business. I say 
this because, in either case, the agreement wouldve ended, with no refund of any payments 
made (including the deposit) due; there would be no adverse credit recorded on her credit 
file; and she wouldnt have been in possession of the car supplied to her (as Ms R hasnt 
indicated any private funds to repay the finance, to have withdrawn from the agreement in 
July 2022 she wouldve needed to have sold the car to repay what she owed).
Finally, Ive considered our approach to complaints about finance being irresponsibly 
provided. While Ms R has said that the only important factor is that Redline didnt conduct 
reasonable checks, this isnt how we deal with these matters. Instead, there are two 
overarching questions I would need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Redline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Redline make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Redline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?So, in a situation where we didnt think the checks were reasonable and proportionate, we 
also need to consider what those checks would show. Its not disputed that Ms Rs bank 
statements clearly show she could sustainably repay the borrowing. And, with nothing to 
indicate that Redline acted unreasonably or unfairly in any other way when considering Ms 
Rs finance application, we wouldnt ask them to take any further action.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms R, Im satisfied that 
Redline acted fairly and reasonably throughout, and I wont be directing them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint about Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc trading as Redline Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman