DRN-2807371
The complaint
Mr B placed an order to buy shares on-line with Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as 
Lloyds Bank Direct Investments (HSDL) but the order didnt complete, and the shares 
werent purchased. Mr B complains that this caused him a financial loss.
What happened
On 23 July 2020, Mr B placed an on-line order for shares using his HSDL Trade Plan. The 
order was for a limit price of 30p for shares in a company I will refer to as S. The trade was 
deleted by HSDL shortly after it had been placed, before HSDL re-instated it several minutes 
later. The trade was deleted again later the same morning by Mr B and no trade was 
completed on the day. 
Mr B says he contacted HSDL through their webchat page on the morning of the proposed 
trade as he could see that the trade had timed-out. During the webchat, HSDL confirmed 
the trade hadnt completed and told Mr B theyd deleted the trade in error but re-instated it. 
Mr B complained to HSDL that because they hadnt completed the trade hed suffered a 
financial loss of about £2,500. He also complained that after HSDL had cancelled the trade 
in error, they acted fraudulently in re-instating the trade without his instruction. Mr B brought 
his complaint to our service on 23 July. 
HSDL provided a final response to the complaint on 26 September. They said the buy-limit 
trade wouldnt have completed because the limit price hadnt been met. HSDL accepted they 
had deleted the instruction from Mr B in error, but said it was re-instated within minutes. 
They said there was no financial loss suffered by Mr B as they hadnt been able to trade at 
the buy-limit price. HSDL accepted their service hadnt met Mr Bs expectations when they 
deleted the trade and failed to acknowledge this when Mr B first made his complaint. HSDL 
proposed to pay Mr B the sum of £75.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
when they deleted the trade in error. 
Mr B didnt agree with HSDLs final response and one of our investigators looked into things 
for him. Our investigator thought that HSDL hadnt done anything wrong in respect of the 
buy-limit trade because the share price didnt remain at the limit price long enough for HSDL 
to trade. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint 
and the case was passed to me for consideration. Mr B believes the trade was placed earlier 
than the HSDL records show and it was executed. He says he has suffered a financial loss 
and that HSDL acted fraudulently when they re-instated the trade after realising theyd 
cancelled it in error.
As I reached a different conclusion to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision and 
asked both Mr C and Aviva for any further evidence or comments. In my provisional decision 
I said:
I understand from Mr Bs comments that he wanted me to confirm I had seen all the 
correspondence he has sent to our service, together with all the correspondence 
HSDL have provided. So, I can confirm Ive independently reviewed all the 
correspondence received and I will make my decision based on the evidence and the 
comments sent by both Mr B and HSDL. 
I understand that HSDL will be disappointed with my provisional decision, but I 
consider they couldve dealt with the trade better than they did. Im satisfied that the 
way HSDL re-instated the trade several minutes after realising they had deleted it in 
error wouldve caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience, but their offer of a 
payment of £75.00 as a remedy was reasonable. However, I do consider it would be 
too speculative for me to conclude Mr B suffered a financial loss because of the way 
HSDL dealt with the trade. I will now explain why I have reached this conclusion.
 Initial Trade 
It may be useful at this time to deal with the time-line of events on the morning of 23 
July, as I think this will allow me to explain my provisional decision. 
Mr B says he set-up the buy-limit trade on-line at 08.00. A buy-limit trade can only be 
executed at the limit price, in this case 30p, or lower. Mr B says that when he entered 
the instruction on-line he received a message that it was executing. But after five 
minutes this message vanished, and he was later told by HSDL theyd deleted it in 
error. HSDL have provided a screen-shot of the instruction placed by Mr B timed at 
08:09:59. HSDL have also provided an audit review from their IT Service Desk that 
confirms the deal time was 8:09:59. So, having carefully checked all the evidence 
and comments provided I havent seen anything that persuades me the trade was 
made any earlier than 8:09:59. There is also no evidence to show the trade was 
executed. 
Mr B says he contacted HSDL through their webchat at about 08:10 and has 
provided several screenshots of the chat. HSDL have provided a transcript of the 
whole webchat showing it started at 08:21. Ive compared the webchat transcript 
provided by HSDL against the extracts of the screenshots from Mr Bs mobile device. 
In his screenshot, at 8:35, HSDL confirm they deleted the initial trade. In HSDLs 
transcript there is the same entry also timed at 8:35. So, because the entry Mr B sent 
has the same time as the HSDL entry, I consider its more likely the webchat started 
at 08:21 and its an accurate timeline of the events after this time. 
Having decided that the trade was likely placed at 8:09.59 but wasnt executed, I will 
consider what is likely to have happened next. 
The order was live from 08:09:59 until HSDL deleted it at 08:18:23. HSDLs 
screenshot records it was cancelled because the limit price exceeded the limit 
tolerance. HSDL have provided evidence that supports the market offer price for a 
share in S at 08:09:58 was trading below 30p, but by 08:14:06 it was trading above 
30p and didnt fall back to 30p for over an hour or so. I can understand why Mr B 
feels the trade shouldve completed between 08:09:59 and 08:14:06. Indeed, HSDL 
accept the limit price couldve triggered the purchase at 8:09:59 but say the order 
didnt complete automatically because their system couldnt find a seller for the 
number of shares Mr B wanted to purchase. HSDL say they were unable to manually 
trade in such a short space of time before the price exceeded the 30p limit. 
I asked HSDL to provide me with evidence they attempted to complete the trade, or 
that they had taken steps to manually compete the trade. However, HSDL said they 
couldnt fulfil a trade for the amount of shares Mr B wanted to buy and they didnt 
provide any evidence to show a manual trade was attempted. Ive seen that between 08:09:56 and 08:14:06 some 546,000 shares were purchased on the market below 
30p, and I consider it unreasonable that HSDL cant show they attempted to 
complete the order, or part of it. Instead, HSDL cancelled the order at 08:18:23 and 
re-instated it at 08:21:59, by which time the share price was over the 30p limit. 
I appreciate there was a short window of opportunity for the trade to be completed, 
but I wouldve have expected HSDL and their automated system to have sourced 
enough shares at 30p or below to fulfil Mr Bs trade at a time when the market was 
trading 546,000 at that price or below. And if this deal couldnt be made automatically 
because of internal limits, I wouldve expected HSDL to make reasonable attempts to 
make the trade manually. Neither of these happened and HSDL closed the deal 
without further instruction from Mr B. 
Mr B says he intended buying the shares at 30p and selling them for a profit. 
However, I do consider its too speculative for me to decide Mr B wouldve done this. 
I say this because I havent seen any evidence from Mr B to show he regularly 
bought shares and sold them quickly within a very short space of time. And of 
course, I cant say at what price Mr B wouldve sold his shares, how many he 
wouldve sold and whether his intention was to hold the shares for longer than a few 
hours. I consider its relevant to take into account that the share price rose 
significantly within the first hour of trading on 23 July, but quickly fell back to below 
the level of 30p by mid-morning, so it is difficult for me to conclude what Mr B 
wouldve done during the day. And whether any share dealing wouldve caused a 
loss or a profit. 
However, I do understand Mr B feels he missed out on an investment opportunity 
and I consider HSDL should make a moderate payment of £250.00 to reflect the 
disappointment this wouldve caused him. 
Re-instatement of the trade by HSDL
Ive seen that HSDL cancelled the initial trade and re-instated it. Mr B says that 
HSDL acted fraudulently when they re-instated the trade. HSDL said theyd cancelled 
the trade in error, so I dont consider they did anything wrong by re-instating it when 
they realised what they had done. They were putting Mr B back in the position he 
wouldve been in if they hadnt cancelled the trade. 
Ive seen that during the period the trade was cancelled the share price didnt fall 
below 30p, so I dont consider the actions of HSDL in this regard caused any 
financial loss to Mr B. Im satisfied that finding out about the cancellation and re-
instatement added to Mr Bs distress and inconvenience on the day of the trade, but I 
consider HSDLs offer to pay Mr B £75.00 to recognise the impact on him was 
reasonable.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
HSDL responded and explained Mr B had placed a buy order earlier in the day at 8:08 that 
couldnt be traded. HSDL say there was no live price available for the quantity of shares Mr 
B wanted to trade and this prompted an on-line message to Mr B the trade had been routed 
to a dealer.
HSDL say Mr Bs subsequent trade, the buy-limit order at 08:09:59, failed because the price 
exceeded the tolerance. This was sent to a dealer who manually reviewed it at 08:18, by 
which time the price of the shares was above the limit price Mr B had set. HSDL confirmed 
this trade was cancelled in error by them and re-instated at 08:21.HSDL say that although my provisional decision stated 546,000 shares were purchased, 
they dont think this reflects this was the number of shares traded, not the number of shares 
purchased. They say that typically, when a stock rises strongly, buy orders are difficult to 
execute electronically due to an increase in buyers with limited stock availability. HSDL say 
this is evidenced when Mr B tried to buy shares at 08:08 but the order was unable to be 
traded electronically.
HSDL say Mr Bs order was handled in accordance with their agreed Order Execution Policy. 
The order was reviewed in fair and due turn by their dealing team and theyd fulfilled the 
obligations set out in the customer agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the comment from HSDL that my provisional decision quoted 546,000 shares had 
been purchased. The documents provided by HSDL didnt explain that these were share 
trades, only that they were the prices for the shares. In view of the representations from 
HSDL in this regard Im persuaded that there were 546,000 shares traded, rather than 
purchased, between 08:08 to 08:18:23 on the day. However, Im satisfied this has no 
material impact on my decision.
The other comments from HSDL dont change my opinion and Ill now explain why.
Ive noted the 8:08 trade that HSDL have now provided, but its clear that the on-line prompt 
told Mr B the trade was being re-routed to a dealer. Mr B then, almost immediately, placed a 
buy-limit order at 08:09:59. So, it seems reasonable for me to conclude Mr B wasnt 
proceeding with the 08:08 trade and that his complaint is more about the 08:09:59 trade and 
what happened to it.
HSDL point out that the buy-limit trade failed because the limit price was exceeded. I 
understood this to be the case and referred to it on my provisional decision. HSDL say this 
trade was manually routed to a dealer. It was reviewed at 08:18:23, and when the dealer 
couldnt make a trade, it was deleted. I addressed this matter in my provisional decision too.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B placed a buy-limit trade but HSDL, or the dealer they 
routed it to, didnt review it for almost eight and a half minutes. During this time Mr B 
wouldve been left wondering what was happening to his trade, whilst at the same time 
watching the market move against him.
HSDL pointed me to their terms and conditions and Ive seen these explain what can happen 
in extreme market conditions. They say that where HSDL cant make the deal electronically 
they will route the trade to a dealer to compete it manually. In the Trading Fairly section of 
their Direct Investments order execution policy, HSDL say, We will always try to put trades 
through in the order we received them, but there may be some exceptions. For example, if 
markets are very busy, we may need to take other steps to better manage the queue of 
orders to make sure we get you the best price promptly. Well let you know if we have any 
problems in carrying out your order.
I asked HSDL to provide evidence of when and where Mr Bs deal was placed in their queue, 
but they didnt provide anything that would help me. So, it doesnt seem unreasonable for me 
to conclude that the trade wasnt reviewed for eight and a half minutes. During that time 
HSDL didnt keep Mr B informed about what was happening. I dont consider the on-line 
prompt, Place Order failed  Error: 100 3434: Limit Price exceeds the Limit Tolerance, is a clear explanation to Mr B that HSDL had decided to route this trade to a dealer. Trading is 
now electronic, so Im persuaded that eight and a half minutes to review a trade isnt what Mr 
B wouldve been expecting, and HSDL failed to provide any meaningful update on the trade 
to him during this time. I can understand why Mr B believed the trade had timed-out. 
When HSDL told Mr B the 08:08 trade was being routed to a dealer he quickly replaced it 
with a buy-limit order. This persuades Mr B was looking to trade quickly as the market was 
moving against him. The delay in HSDL reviewing the trade meant Mr B was unable to 
consider amending his trade, either the number of shares to buy, or the limit price he was 
prepared to buy at.
I remain satisfied Mr B missed an opportunity to invest because of the delay and lack of 
information from HSDL, and that HSDL caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience when 
he found out they had cancelled his buy-limit order at 08:18:23.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct Investments should do the following:
Pay Mr B £250.00 to reflect the missed investment opportunity he suffered on 23 July
2020; and
Pay Mr B the sum of £75.00 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused when
he found out the trade had been cancelled and re-instated the same day.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman