DRN-1976425
The complaint
Mr H complains about Unum Ltds decision to turn down his income protection claim.
 
What happened
Mr H was a member of his previous employers group income protection scheme. The aim of 
the cover was to provide an income in the event that he wasnt able to work because of 
illness or injury after a waiting period of 26 weeks.
In June 2016, Mr H stopped work in his sedentary role because of pain and fatigue. He then 
returned to work in January 2017. However, he stopped work again in July 2017, and 
remained off work until he was made redundant from his employer in July 2019. A claim was 
submitted to Unum for Mr Hs two periods of absence, however this was turned down as 
Unum didnt think Mr H had shown that he met the policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. He explained that hed since been 
diagnosed with fibromyalgia. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the available evidence 
did support that Mr H met the policy definition of incapacity, in both periods of absence. She 
recommended that Unum pay the claim, plus interest. She also thought it should pay Mr H 
£500 compensation for the upset hed been caused as a result of the claim being turned 
down. 
Unum didnt accept nor reject our investigators findings. Instead, it noted that Mr H had 
since been made redundant and requested a copy of that letter. After this was provided to 
Unum, it thought that in agreeing to take redundancy, Mr H had waived his right to any claim 
under the policy. 
Our investigator didnt agree with Unum, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partly agree with the investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is.
(a) unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation
Mr H first stopped work on 22 June 2016. As the scheme has a 26-week waiting period, that 
means Mr H must show that he met the above definition of incapacity throughout the waiting 
period (22 June 2016 to 21 December 2016).
Mr H advised Unum that hed stopped work because of abdominal pain and bladder 
problems, and although hed experienced these for around a year, he became unable to 
manage the pain. Mr H also reported sciatica, back pain, and fatigue/difficulty sleeping.
Ive looked at Mr Hs medical records over the relevant period, and I see that before he 
stopped work, he was reporting long-standing abdominal symptoms. At the time he stopped 
work, he reported feeling hot and shivery with dysuria. He was later referred to urology for 
investigations. During the relevant period, Mr H also reported various pains to his GP that he 
was experiencing. 
In August 2016, Mr H was seen by Mr K, a consultant urologist. Mr K noted that Mr H had a 
multitude of complaints (mainly with his bladder), as well as IBS and back and nerve pain. 
Mr K said that given Mr Hs long history and symptoms, he thought he may have chronic 
prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome. In December 2016, Mr H was prescribed a new 
medication by Mr K.
Mr Hs GP noted on 21 December 2016 that Mr H wanted to return to work. Mr H did then 
return to work in January 2017.
Whilst I recognise that Mr Hs GP had signed him off work throughout the waiting period, his 
symptoms werent new and he was able to previously work despite experiencing those 
symptoms. His GP also hasnt said how Mr Hs symptoms affected his functional ability. 
Although I appreciate Mr H was feeling hot and shivery around the time he stopped work, 
the evidence doesnt support that his symptoms were so severe that he couldnt work 
throughout the entire 26-week period. And whilst Mr K thought he was suffering from chronic 
prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain, he didnt comment on Mr Hs ability to work. 
Therefore, on balance, I dont think Mr H has shown that he met the definition of incapacity 
during his first absence from work. Weve explained this to Mr H, and he has accepted my 
findings in this respect. 
Five months after Mr H returned to work, he then stopped work again in June 2017. As Ive 
found that Mr H didnt meet the definition of incapacity for the first period of absence, the two 
periods of absence cant be linked. That means the 26-week waiting period would again 
apply.
In the lead-up to Mr H stopping work in June 2017, he was reviewed by his GP in respect of 
his bladder issues, and he reported that the medication (prescribed to him by Mr K) was 
benefitting him. In May 2017 Mr K discussed his chronic issues with his GP, specifically his 
chronic pain that was previously in his bowel and abdomen but said treatment had helped 
this. He also described intermittent shooting and burning sensations across both arms and 
legs. The GP arranged a referral to neurology. 
Shortly after Mr H stopped work in June 2017, he spoke with his GP in July 2017 about his 
ongoing vague neurological problems. Then in August 2017 he told his GP he was 
experiencing right shoulder pain for the past six weeks. Mr H continued to have GP 
consultations throughout 2017 about the pains he was experiencing. In November 2017, his 
GP noted that his neurologist had switched his medication. It was also reported that Mr H 
had attempted to go back to work, but this wasnt successful  and that his shoulder pain 
had worsened as well as his fatigue. 
In October 2017, Mr H was reviewed by Dr A, a consultant neurologist. She said Mr Hs 
neurological symptoms started around 11 years earlier, and that over the last year, his 
symptoms had started to bother him more. She said that along with his previous symptoms, he was feeling numb in his feet and fingertips bilaterally, and had associated tingling in 
hands and feet, and was also bothered by shoulder pain and wrist pain. Dr A said that Mr H 
had a lot of neurological symptoms which were mainly neuropathic. She confirmed she 
would arrange blood tests and an MRI brain for him. These results were later confirmed to 
be normal. 
Mr H continued to be in regular contact with his GP about his ongoing symptoms, and in 
early 2018 reported that fatigue was his main issue. In February 2018 Mr H was reviewed by 
Dr A and she reported that the previous three months had been miserable for him, as hed 
been having a lot of fatigue, ongoing shoulder pain, and pain in his left leg. 
Then in April 2018, Dr A referred Mr H for a neurosurgical opinion. She explained he had a 
long and complex past medical history which included IBS, urinary symptoms, asthma, 
depression and fatigue. She explained an MRI of his spine showed a disc protrusion, which 
is why she wanted a neurosurgical opinion
In July 2018, Mr H was examined by Dr T (consultant occupational physician). Dr T noted 
that Mr H had been off work with nerve pain since 27 June 2016 with some attempted 
returns to work, though he didnt account for Mr Hs return between January and June 2017. 
Dr T said that Mr Hs nerve pain had become progressively worse, and he had constant 
nerve discomfort, though he also noted that over the past year, Mr Hs primary symptoms 
and functional limitations had been that of extreme fatigue. 
Dr T said that Mr H had been reviewed by a neurologist with a diagnosis of spinal 
degeneration and of disc prolapse, though he didnt think Mr Hs symptoms would be 
explained by this alone. He thought that Mr T was unfit for all work, due to his extreme levels 
of fatigue, and said he questioned whether there was an underlying additional condition that 
was causing his fatigue but had not been fully diagnosed. He also said Mr Hs condition was 
becoming worse and was of a variable, unpredictable nature. 
I think this is a balanced case. Whilst its apparent that Mr H was experiencing symptoms 
throughout the 26-week waiting period in 2017 that were related to his (now confirmed) 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia, the evidence from the time doesnt go into much detail about the 
functional difficulties his symptoms were causing him, or explain why he wasnt able to work 
in his role because of those symptoms.
However, I think the later evidence from Dr T is quite persuasive. Although he saw Mr H 
after the waiting period had ended, he did refer to the previous year in his comments about 
Mr Hs limitations. Whilst I recognise he was reliant upon Mr Hs reporting of those 
symptoms and the impact on him, that would always be the case with fibromyalgia.
Mr H did see Dr A during the relevant waiting period, and it seems she was in little doubt as 
to the range of debilitating symptoms that he was experiencing. 
Overall, I think theres enough evidence for me to conclude, on balance, that Mr Hs 
symptoms most likely prevented him from working throughout the 2017 waiting period and 
beyond. 
Our investigator had recommended that Unum pay Mr H £500 compensation. Given how 
balanced the case is, I dont require Unum to pay that compensation. Again, weve explained 
this to Mr H, which he accepts.
Unum says that because Mr H accepted redundancy from his employer, it thinks he signed 
away his right to benefit from the policy. I disagree. Ive looked carefully at the redundancy 
letter and this only refers to claims made against the employer and its agents etc, not an insurance policy taken out by the employer. Although Unum has made reference to the 
additional document that accompanied that letter, Ive read that document and it makes no 
mention of income protection claims.
Unum didnt agree with our investigators view that it should pay benefit directly to Mr H. I 
appreciate that Mr Hs former employer is the policyholder, however, as Unum will be aware, 
when someones employment has ended before this service considers the complaint, we 
sometimes think its more appropriate for it to pay the benefit directly to the consumer. Im 
satisfied that it would be reasonable for Unum to do so here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Unum Ltd to pay the claim 
for the second period of absence, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date each payment 
was due to the date of settlement. The settlement should be paid directly to Mr H.
 If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman