DRN-3898349
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lendable Ltd trading as Zable (Zable) irresponsibly issued him with a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr W successfully applied for a credit card with Zable in March 2022. He was given a credit 
limit of £200, which wasnt raised. He maintained the account, and paid at least the minimum 
monthly payment until July 2022, when it fell into arrears. Zable has told us it attempted to 
reach out to Mr W to agree a repayment plan but has been unsuccessful.
Mr W complained that he didnt think Zable had done a proper check on him when it issued 
the card. He referred to having gambling on his statement and that it has affected his mental 
health.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our Adjudicator said that Zable had carried out 
adequate credit checks and that the results of those checks indicated that the payments on 
the card were affordable.
Mr W disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mr Ws complaint. 
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Zable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
Zable carried out a credit check on Mr W and considered the information set out in his 
application. He declared a monthly net income of £1,268, which Zable had verified through 
an independent check. The credit report showed that Mr W had eight defaulted accounts 
though none in the previous 12 months. He also had four active accounts consisting of three 
current accounts and one loan with a monthly payment of £25, where he had kept up with 
any relevant payments. Zable carried out an affordability check which estimated that Mr W 
was paying about 8% of his income on credit commitments.
Mr W refers to gambling appearing on his statement. By this I assume he means his bank 
statement as credit card holders havent been able to use their cards for gambling since 
April 2020. Unfortunately Mr W hasnt supplied a copy of any relevant statement. However, 
the credit check didnt show any of his current accounts to be in overdraft.
I have to bear in mind the low amount of credit provided, of £200, which if Mr W had made 
the recommended monthly payment of 5%, would have meant a liability of £10 a month. Also 
the card was a high interest card designed for applicants to build their credit rating. So it 
could fairly be expected that it would be available to people with a poor credit rating. 
I think Zable carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing revealed by those 
checks to indicate it needed to consider any additional checks. In particular in my view it 
didnt need to see bank statements. And if it had seen those statements I do not know what 
they might have shown. 
So I think that Zable acted reasonably in determining that the card was affordable and in 
providing it to Mr W. Im sorry if his debt problems have affected his mental health. I would 
urge him to contact Zable to agree a repayment plan.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman