DRN-3041399
The complaint
Mr F complained about the advice he received from one of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK 
Limiteds (trading at the time as Merchant Investors) advisers to transfer from his 
occupational pension to a personal pension. Hes also unhappy that compensation already 
paid hasnt made up for the loss he suffered.
Mr F is represented by a claims management company, who Ill refer to as F.
What happened
In 1990 Mr F received advice from one of Sanlams advisers to transfer his occupational 
pension to a private one. Mr F followed the advice.
In 2002 Sanlam reviewed the advice that Mr F had been given. This was part of an industry 
wide review of advice given to consumers to transfer their pensions away from occupational 
schemes (known as the Pension Review). Following the review Sanlam wrote to Mr F and 
said:
its investigation showed hed suffered a financial loss as a result of transferring from his 
occupational pension
it offered to pay £54,772 to his existing policy to make up for the loss
the £54,772 was equal to the financial loss hed suffered plus an additional amount to 
allow for the future charges it expects to make on the policy
the offer had been calculated according to guidelines set out by the regulator
if he accepted the offer he needed to sign and return the acceptance form; and it would 
be in full and final settlement of all matters covered by its review of the advice.
Enclosed with the letter was a document titled Summary of Loss Assessment, which gave 
some more detail of Sanlams investigation.
Mr F signed the acceptance form on 2 March 2002 and it was received by Sanlam two days 
later. Sanlam wrote to Mr F on 8 March 2002 to confirm that the funds had been paid to his 
existing policy with effect from 1 February 2002.
In October 2019 F complained to Sanlam about the advice Mr F had been given in 1990. F 
made various points relating to why the advice Mr F received was inappropriate. I havent 
listed those here as I dont think theyre material to the outcome of the complaint (see below 
under The advice in 1990). In order to put things right F wanted Mr F to be compensated in 
line with the regulators current guidance on pension transfer redress.
Sanlams response to the complaint was that the advice had already been reviewed and the 
matter resolved and settled via the Pension Review carried out in 2002.
F referred Mr Fs complaint to us. It said Sanlam told Mr F in 2002 that its offer was to "make 
good the loss" and Mr F accepted the offer on that basis. But the compensation hasnt made 
up for the loss. F didnt therefore believe the offer, or the acceptance of it, was valid.
F later said that Sanlam didnt review the advice in 2002 in accordance with the standards or 
requirements that were applicable, as:
Sanlam didnt ascertain if reinstatement into the occupational scheme was possible, and
the assumptions Sanlam made for future charges used in the calculations were zero
oF felt this was incorrect as the fund into which the compensation was paid didnt 
have zero charges
othe guidelines said that future expenses of the personal pension should be the 
normal basis of charges applying to that contract; and that its not permissible to 
reduce a possible loss by assuming a reduction in the future expenses to be 
charged under the personal pension.
As Sanlam didnt properly review the advice, F said the regulators updated guidance should 
be used to calculate Mr Fs compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. F disagreed. It remained of the 
view that Sanlam didnt carry out the review in accordance with the regulatory standards or 
requirements:
charges  it was obvious that Mr Fs plan and fund in 2002 had some charges so there 
was no argument that Sanlams assumption of zero charges was incorrect
reinstatement  Sanlam was required to investigate if reinstatement was possible, and it 
failed to do so.
Sanlam said that future charges were taken into account, as stated in the offer letter sent to 
Mr F. It said this is illustrated by the fact the fund value at the time was £28,071.19, which 
was reduced by £7,736 to compensate for charges incurred in the future. Sanlam also felt 
that given the length of time between 1989 and 2002 it was unlikely that reinstatement into 
Mr Fs occupational scheme would have been an option.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. 
Ive outlined the relevant parts of my provisional decision below, and they form part of my 
final decision.
The advice in 1990
In its initial complaint letter to Sanlam F outlined the regulations and law it felt were in 
force at the time of the advice. It also raised various points as to why it felt the advice 
Mr F received was inappropriate and why it breached the regulations and law.
I didnt think the points F made in this respect were material to my determination of this 
complaint and I didnt discuss them further. That was because a review of the advice had 
already taken place and, in my view, the central issue now was more about the review of 
the advice in 2002 and the compensation paid, rather than the appropriateness of the 
advice.The Pension Review and updated guidance
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to 
rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as much as possible into the 
position they would have been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The 
financial business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be 
reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial 
business needed to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in by 
way of a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were 
used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the 
pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most reviews were done 
between 1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly during that time. In 
general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time 
that the calculation was done and compensation paid. This included where mistakes 
were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done 
using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
In many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. 
This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by 
personal pensions. So although it was thought the compensation paid following the 
Pension Review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match 
the occupational scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many 
consumers.
But that in itself isnt a reason to redo the Pension Review and recalculate 
compensation. The review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a 
line under the matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that 
they wouldnt be liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that 
the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were 
considered to be reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many 
years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This 
was designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers 
received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been 
settled in full and final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would 
be excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said 
some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where 
the particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
The basic arguments
F essentially argued that the Pension Review in 2002 wasnt done correctly  because 
the assumption about the charges was incorrect and because Sanlam didnt investigate 
if reinstatement into Mr Fs original pension was possible  and is therefore invalid. So it 
felt compensation should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.Sanlams position was that it had already properly settled the matter in respect of the 
advice as per the Pension Review.
I dont ask financial businesses to re-calculate a consumers loss simply because the 
compensation previously paid didnt actually make up for the loss theyve now suffered. 
That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So while F might have been 
correct that the compensation Mr F accepted didnt put him in the same position he 
would have been in had the transfer not taken place, that in itself didnt mean I would re-
assess the compensation offer.
However, if an error was found in the original calculations  eg incorrect date of birth, 
sex, marital status, pension transfer value  I would normally direct the business involved 
to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, not now). Thats because the 
Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made and accepted in good 
faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, the re-calculation should 
be done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
The assumption regarding fees
The issue here concerned whether Sanlam correctly allowed for future charges.
Sanlam told me the compensation calculations were done by an actuarial company (who 
specialised in Pension Review loss calculations) who it no longer had a business 
relationship with. So it wasnt now able to check the minutiae of the calculations with 
them. It nevertheless provided various documents from the actuary regarding the 
calculations made in 2002. I didnt see anything in those documents  and neither F nor 
Mr F had provided anything  which showed that there were errors in the data inputted 
into the calculations.
I agreed with F there were likely to be some charges going forward. And some 
documents did show zero in respect of future charges. Sanlam said these documents 
appeared to have been used by the actuary to ascertain the value of Mr Fs pension. 
Nevertheless, there were entries in other documents which I thought clearly supported 
Sanlams position that the offer did incorporate an amount for the ongoing charges. As 
an example, documents summarising the calculations showed that Mr Fs loss was 
calculated as £52,665 and the charges were calculated as £2,107 (making up the 
£54,772 that was paid into Mr Fs pension). I therefore concluded, based on the balance 
of evidence provided, that an allowance was made in the overall calculations for future 
charges.
Although it wasnt strictly part of the complaint, that conclusion raised the question about 
how the £2,107 was calculated and whether it was fair. Sanlam told me the figure was 
calculated by the actuary, which it expected was based on the relevant guidance at the 
time. I thought that was a reasonable assumption to make  especially as there was 
nothing to suggest that the calculations were wrong. I also felt it was significant that the 
regulator carried out spot checks with businesses to ensure that the Pension Review 
was being done correctly.
Reinstatement to the original pension
The issue here concerned whether Sanlam made enquiries as to whether reinstatement 
into the occupational scheme was possible.I hadnt seen any evidence to show that Sanlam made any enquiries in this respect. So 
there was an argument that the Pension Review wasnt carried out in strict accordance 
with the applicable guidelines. However, in reviewing the complaint, I wasnt bound by 
the strict terms of contracts, guidelines etc. My overall remit was to decide the complaint 
based on what I thought was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I didnt know if reinstatement was possible. But there were only two possibilities  either 
Mr F could have been reinstated or he couldnt. It looked like Sanlam didnt enquire, and 
neither F nor Mr F provided anything to show that it would have been possible if an 
enquiry had been made. The only certainty was that Mr F left his occupational pension 
scheme in May 1989 and the Pension Review was done in early 2002.
Of the two possibilities, due to the number of years that had passed I thought the most 
likely one was that Mr F wouldnt have been able to be reinstated into his original 
occupational scheme. I didnt therefore think Sanlams failure to enquire disadvantaged 
him. Had it enquired, the overall outcome of the pension review  compensation being 
paid into Mr Fs current pension  would most likely have been the same.
Overall, even though Sanlam didnt check whether Mr F could be reinstated into his 
occupational scheme, I concluded that there were no fair grounds to require it to 
recalculate the compensation.
Other arguments
One of Fs arguments was that, in law, a valid contract/agreement is only formed when a 
valid acceptance follows a valid offer. It said in this case that didnt happen as the offer 
was made (and accepted) on the basis that it would make up for Mr Fs loss  which it 
didnt in fact do.
I hadnt seen any legal opinion to support whether Fs argument had any legal merit. In 
any event, only a court could decide whether any contract/agreement was formed and 
whether it was now valid. But even if it was legally invalid, in deciding this complaint I 
was able to look beyond the strict legal position to what I considered fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
In that regard, I was satisfied that Sanlam made a genuine offer based on what the 
actuary had calculated Mr Fs projected loss to be based on the terms of the Pension 
Review. And Mr F accepted that offer. There was therefore an agreement  or a meeting 
of minds. I didnt think it was fair to now ignore and invalidate that agreement.
Recently Sanlam told us it was concerned that we were still considering Mr Fs complaint 
as it understood we would dismiss it without looking at its merits (under DISP 3.3.4.(5)) 
as the matter had been dealt with in accordance with regulatory guidance at the time. 
Sanlams argument in this respect was misplaced because the rule it referred to only 
applied to complaints referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service before 9 July 2015  
F referred Mr Fs complaint to us in November 2019.
Summary
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and following that Mr F agreed a full and 
final settlement in 2002. I accepted Mr F might have lost out as the compensation he 
agreed to and received didnt match his actual loss. However, for the reasons outlined 
above I was satisfied based on what Id seen that Sanlam calculated its offer fairly.Response to my provisional decision
I havent received anything further from Sanlam.
F said the key issue was that the FG17/9 guidance exists to give appropriate redress for 
cases not dealt with correctly during the Pension Review. It further said it was a requirement 
to check if reinstatement into the original pension was possible as this was the only way to 
guarantee that the consumer could be put back in the same position they would have been 
in without the unsuitable advice. And as Id concluded that Sanlam didnt check whether 
Mr F could be reinstated into his previous pension scheme, the only fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances is for me to conclude that a new calculation be carried out as 
per the updated guidance.
F also said that in Sanlam's offer letter in 2002 it said the offer had been calculated 
according to guidelines set out by our regulator. But as the guidelines werent followed, the 
statement was misleading. It feels this is another reason why the offer and acceptance 
werent legally valid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The assumption regarding fees
F hasnt made any further comments in respect of my conclusion that Sanlam made a fair 
allowance for the ongoing charges. My conclusion in this respect therefore remains as 
outlined in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Reinstatement to the original pension
Nothing F has said in response to my provisional decision about the reinstatement into 
Mr Fs previous pension scheme persuades me to change my mind in this respect. In my 
view, its comments essentially re-state its previous argument  which Id considered prior to 
my provisional decision. I dont therefore have anything to add to what I said in my 
provisional decision. To confirm:
it was a requirement for Sanlam to have checked whether Mr F could be reinstated into 
his previous pension
Im satisfied that Sanlam didnt check this  which means technically the Pension Review 
wasnt carried out correctly
I think it most likely that reinstatement wasnt possible; so even if Sanlam had enquired,  
the outcome of the Pension Review would have been the same  so Sanlams failure 
didnt disadvantage Mr F
so based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable, I conclude that there are no fair 
grounds to require Sanlam to recalculate the compensation.
Other arguments
Although the nuance of the argument has slightly changed  the emphasis now being on 
Sanlam's statement about the offer being calculated according to the regulators guidelines, 
rather than the offer not making up for Mr Fs loss  F has again referred to the offer and 
acceptance not being legally valid. I emphasise that my role here isnt to decide whether any 
contract or agreement that was formed is now legally valid.Its true that Sanlams offer letter said the offer had been calculated according to the 
regulators guidelines. However, even though the guidelines werent strictly followed, Ive 
essentially concluded above that Sanlams offer would most likely have been the same even 
if it had followed the guidelines. So I dont think Mr F was sufficiently misled, to the extent 
that it would now be fair to unwind the meeting of minds that I referred to in my provisional 
decision.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Sanlam calculated its offer following the 
Pension Review fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman