DRN-3495888
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been 
summarised by our investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
AXA has attempted to resolve the matters raised by Mr and Mrs C by offering them 
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Having reviewed the 
compensation offered, I agree that this is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. So, what Im focussing on below is AXAs decision to turn down the 
claim for water damage to the property and its contents.
AXAs position is that Mr and Mrs C havent shown theres an insured event for the 
policy to respond to. It says that following investigations, it is as likely the damage 
was caused as a result of damage over time (because of the presence of mould), or 
a structural defect within the property (such as inadequate, or failed tanking of the 
basement). So, AXA says the onus is now back on Mr and Mrs C to prove an insured 
event happened.
Mr and Mrs Cs position is that the water found in the property has been identified as 
rainwater, which is linked to a sudden and severe downpour around July 2021. 
Theyve provided photos of the damaged area before the water entered, which show 
no mould. And photos of mould appearing just one week after the event. They say 
theyve never had any issues of water ingress previously, having lived there for 
around nine years. And that no structural issues with the rooms were highlighted 
when they bought the property.
AXA says Mr and Mrs Cs claim doesnt meet its definition for Flood under the 
policy, defined as, Sudden release or rapid build-up of water from outside the Home 
or Outbuildings entering into the Home or Outbuildings. It says that for heavy rain to 
be considered under the flood peril, it has to be a one-off event where the property 
floods because the drains cant cope. 
Ive checked the remainder of the policy terms and exclusions, and I cant see 
anything which states that the drains need to be overwhelmed following rainfall in 
order for a flood claim to succeed. And based on the circumstances of this case, Im 
persuaded Mr and Mrs Cs claim does fall under the policys broader definition of 
Flood, and theyve done enough to show this. 
Therefore, I dont think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to be required to show 
exactly how the water ingress happened in order for the claim to succeed. 
Essentially, its been shown the water originated from outside the property and found 
its way in (and this point has never been in dispute). And further, the weather records 
and news reports from the time show evidence of localised flooding due to rainfall. 
Im not persuaded by AXAs comments about the mould showing gradual damage 
either. From everything Ive seen, it seems more likely the mould appeared due to 
AXAs initial delay in responding to the claim. I say this because AXAs contact notes 
show that Mrs C raised her concerns about mould appearing within a few weeks of 
raising the claim. And the loss adjusters conclusions regarding mould and gradual 
damage were made around October 2021  some months after the initial claim was 
raised. Further, Im persuaded by Mrs Cs evidence which shows the room was 
mould free prior to the claim.
I note AXAs concerns regarding possible issues with tanking in the basement. But 
even if this turns out to be the case, it wouldnt be reasonable for it to turn down the 
claim. I say this because in line with our services general approach to gradual 
damage, Ive not seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs C should have been aware 
(or ought reasonably to have been aware) that there was a problem. Im persuaded 
by their testimony; that something of this nature had never happened before (or 
since); the property remained dry; and the affected rooms havent been altered since 
they bought the property.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint, AXA Insurance UK Plc should accept the claim under the Flood peril.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman