DRN-3701370
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received when he called Barclays Bank UK PLC to raise 
a chargeback dispute.
What happened
Mr S took his mobile phone for repair. He was unhappy with the repair and asked the 
merchant for a refund, but this was refused. Mr S contacted Barclays to raise a chargeback 
dispute.
Mr S was unhappy with the service he received when he asked to raise a chargeback. He 
says that Barclays disconnected his call and failed to call him back. He says that when he 
spoke to a member of staff, she was rude and told him she was unable to proceed with the 
chargeback.
Mr S complained to Barclays. It acknowledged that Mr Ss call had been disconnected 
prematurely but said the advice given by the member of staff about the chargeback was 
correct. Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision. I listened to the calls between Mr S and Barclays. I found 
nothing in the call to have been unprofessional, but I said that I wasnt persuaded that 
Barclays had done what it should have done in relation to the chargeback claim. I said that 
Barclays should have asked the merchant to provide information before it made a decision 
on whether the chargeback claim was likely to be successful. I concluded that Barclays 
hadnt treated Mr S fairly and said that it should pay compensation of £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise 
before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision and said they accepted it. In the 
circumstances, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay compensation of £50 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay 
compensation of £50 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman