DRN-2353855
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wont apply a 4% per year 
escalation to her pension. And that Aviva didnt inform her it wouldnt be applied until two 
months prior to taking her benefits.
What happened
Mrs S took out a Section 32 policy with Aviva in 1987, the advice to do so was given by 
another business. A complaint about that business is being dealt with under a separate 
reference.
Mrs S says the adviser from the other firm explained the policy to her and she was told she 
would get a 4% escalation when she took her pension. The point of sale documentation 
shows that Mrs S was given an illustration which showed:
A transfer value of £2,946 growing to a fund value of £90,743 (low investment return) or 
£140,208 (high investment return).
It showed a potential pension in retirement of £7,109 and £10,985.90 per year. 
It went on to state:
The pensions shown above are payable monthly on the 1st of each month and increase at 
a rate of 4.0% pa compound. . .
GUARANTEE
From State Pension Age, the policy will provide at least the revalued Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension of £2,943.20 pa. We also guarantee to pay any Equivalent Pension 
Benefits. (To implement the guarantee, it may be necessary to alter the mix of benefits).
There was also a policy schedule  and this set out the terms of the policy. It was divided 
into the first schedule which set out Mrs S details and the second schedule which set out 
the policy conditions. It said:
 ESCALATION PERCENTAGE RATE: 4.00% per annum compound
7 APPLICATION OF THE CAPITAL SUM
At the Benefit Date or the Substitute Benefit Date subject to the election of the Insured 
under Condition 8 so much of the Capital Sum as shall be appropriate should be applied 
using the Society's then current annuity rates to purchase an immediate pension payable 
to the Insured which shall not be less than the Guaranteed Minimum Pension
9 INCREASES IN PENSION
Pensions purchased under Condition 7 shall increase at the Escalation Percentage Rate 
specified in the Second Schedule
The rate of Increase in pensions shall not be such that the pension payable to the 
Insured which can be purchased by the Capital Sum shall be less than the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension.
Mrs S was upset to find out that when she came to take her benefits, Aviva wouldnt be 
paying the escalation.
Aviva explained that the value of Mrs S policy didnt support the cost of providing the 
GMP, so it would be topping up the value to pay the GMP. But as per the terms of the 
policy, this meant the escalation wouldnt be applied.
Mrs S complained as she had planned on receiving the escalation in her retirement. And 
she says shed been led to believe she would receive this for thirty years and it was only 
a couple of months before she came to retire that Aviva explained she wouldnt be 
receiving it.
Mrs S says she recalls asking the adviser to explain what the minimum pension would 
that she would receive. Shes told us the adviser said that she would receive the 4% and 
this was guaranteed.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
felt that Aviva had been correct under the terms and conditions when it chose not to pay 
the 4% escalation. And that it couldnt have known that Mrs S was expecting the 4% to 
be paid regardless of the policy value. 
Mrs S said in response that Aviva left it until just two months before her retirement date 
to tell her that she wouldnt be paid the escalation. She says this gave her no time to take 
advice and shop around for a better product. She thinks that Aviva failed to properly 
manage her policy and expectations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons.
I do sympathise with Mrs S position and I can understand why she thought she would 
receive the escalation. And I appreciate this belief wouldve been held for a long time  and 
so it would be particularly upsetting to find out this wasnt the case at retirement.
Whilst Mrs S says she recalls what the adviser said at the time, this policy wasnt sold by 
Aviva  and so it isnt responsible for what she was told by the adviser. Its responsibility was 
to provide Mrs S with accurate information about the policy. The sale of this policy was 
before specific legislation about what advisers and pension providers were required to do 
came into place. Only the common law standards applied but in any event, I think even if 
Aviva were held to a later standard, it acted fairly and reasonably.
The illustration did say there would be 4% escalation, but this was an illustration of future 
benefits and not guaranteed. Within the illustration it said it guaranteed to pay at least the 
revalued GMP  it does not say the GMP plus escalation. And this is caveated by stating the 
mix of benefits may need to be altered to meet the guarantee.Ive read the policy schedule carefully and I think Avivas explanation of it, is fair and 
reasonable. The second schedule shows that Aviva guaranteed to pay the policyholder not 
less than the revalued GMP. And that increases (escalation) shall not be paid if this means 
that the capital sum (the fund value) does not support the cost of the GMP. Unfortunately, 
this is the situation that Mrs S has found herself in. But Im satisfied Aviva has treated her in 
line with the terms set out at outset, and she has received her fair entitlement from the 
policy.
Its easy to see why Mrs S wouldve been upset to find out so late in the day that the 
escalation wouldnt be paid. But I dont think I can fairly say this was Avivas fault or that it 
should have done more. Mrs S hasnt provided any evidence to say she enquired with Aviva 
about her understanding of the GMP and escalation prior to her taking her benefits. So it 
doesnt appear that it wouldve known of Mrs S expectations. Furthermore, it wasnt acting 
as her financial adviser, so it didnt have any responsibility to actively check her 
understanding and provide information about the suitability of the plan for her needs.
Mrs S has said this failure to actively tell her the escalation wouldnt be paid, has taken away 
her choice  she says she couldve moved to a better product. But even if she had known, 
because the GMP wasnt supported, she wouldnt have been able to transfer the plan. No 
other provider wouldve accepted it knowing theyd have to pay the GMP to Mrs S even if the 
fund didnt support the cost. And so commonly firms do not allow the transfer of policies 
where the GMP is not met, as the firm has a requirement under HMRCs rules to pay a 
pension not less than the GMP to the policyholder. To transfer less than the cost of the 
GMP, does not meet this obligation.
Mrs S also wouldnt have been able to add additional contributions to this policy as Section 
32s couldnt accept further contributions. And as Ive said Aviva wasnt acting as Mrs Ss 
financial adviser, so it didnt have any responsibility for her retirement provision.
Its worth noting that if Mrs S policy didnt have the guaranteed minimum pension (which is 
why she cant have the escalation) the annuity payable to her wouldve been less. As Aviva 
had to make up the difference between the value of her fund and the value of the GMP it had 
to pay her. At the time of the sale of the policy, it wouldnt have been foreseen by Aviva nor 
the adviser that the cost of the GMP wouldnt be met. Returns were expected to be way in 
advance of the cost of the GMP. Had firms known theyd end up having to fund the GMP for 
many customers themselves, they no doubt wouldnt have been keen to accept the transfers 
in the first place. 
It could be argued that good customer service would be to notify policyholders when it 
becomes apparent escalation may not be payable. But its difficult to pinpoint at what time 
Aviva should know that this is the case. And there is no specific requirement to do so. The 
values involved in calculating the cost of the GMP will fluctuate. And even if Aviva did tell 
Mrs S, it wouldnt have changed her position in terms of the policy. As the investigator 
explained the further away from retirement the less accurate any estimate would be about 
the chances of the GMP being supported. So I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simon HollingsheadOmbudsman