DRN-2762505
The complaint
 Mr F on behalf of F Limited complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd wrongly applied a
Quote Booster feature to his account and failed to inform him of this. He wants a refund of
the £1,900 plus fees it has taken.
What happened
In a Provisional Decision, I summarised the case as follows:
F Limited opened an account with IBUK on 23 May 2013. IBUKs system showed that Mr F
subscribed to the Quote Booster on 22 February 2016 at 10:09:55. It removed this feature
on 31 May 2018 as there had been no activity on the account.
Mr F said that he had never subscribed to the service and he wasnt able to log on to the
service by himself and would have needed the help of a family member (and she was at
work on the day in question).
IBUK rejected his complaint, saying that clients have to subscribe to the Quote Booster via
its online platform and its data showed that Mr F logged onto the system under the
username a194 twice on the morning of the 22 February 2016. It said he accessed the
account minutes before the Quote Booster was activated.
It said the IBUK website shows the subscriptions including on the account
statements. It said that the statements were available to both registered names of F limited
(including Mr F) at any time. It also said that the Quote Booster was in place for two years
and neither party raised concern over the fees.
It said that Mr F was a sophisticated investor and so shouldve known how to manage the
account and flag any fees that he may not have been sure of.
An investigator at this service did not believe the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F disagreed, saying:
We can see no specific reference to what the Quote Booster fees actually were in the 
opening documentation quoted, nor how the same would be activated
Without the statements, to which it has been conceded by IBUK that we could not 
access during the period in question, I fail to see how we were supposed to know 
about the existence of the Quote Booster?
We only located the market data subscriptions screen thanks to the information the 
investigator provided in one of his emails, and we had to work out how to get to the 
place where the directions started via Settings
As there was no activity on the account, there was no need to monitor the account
He also made numerous other points about the alleged evidence of activation data.
The investigator sought further information about some of these issues but IBUK did not
respond.
I was satisfied Fs complaint should be upheld, saying:
I acknowledge that Mr F has raised a number of points about the mechanism for logging 
into
his account and queried much of IBUKs alleged proof, some of which IBUK has not fully
addressed. He has also queried its failure to either email or write to confirm when a
customer signs up to this £60 a month feature; he had also sought further information about
how often it reviews accounts, why it waited 27 months to do so in his case and why it did so
at that point. Further, he questions why he was not told that it had unilaterally stopped his
subscription. From what I have read, IBUK has not dealt satisfactorily with many of these
concerns.
However, as I intend uphold this complaint for other reasons, I have not considered the
issues above.
In this case, I have had to weigh two conflicting types of evidence: IBUKs computer log and
Mr Fs recollection of what he did and didnt do. Very many complaints revolve around such
a conflict and in the overwhelming majority of cases I have concluded that there is not
sufficient evidence to doubt a business computer log and therefore not sufficient grounds to
uphold a complaint.
This is one of those extremely small number of cases where I have reached a different
conclusion.
In my view, it is clear and evident that Mr F did not actively choose to subscribe to the QB
feature: he had not logged-on since his account started, he was not actively managing his
portfolio and never used this specialist feature once in the following 27 months. It therefore
seems highly unlikely that he chose to pay £60 a month for something he never intended to
make use of.
In this context, I am very surprised that IBUK did not at least offer a substantial rebate when
he complained; it being obvious hed never used the service and had never intended to
subscribe (whether he did press the button or not). It did not cost IBUK anything to allow him
access to this feature and I believe it should  in line with its responsibility to treat customers
fairly  have offered him a substantial rebate in lieu of the overall circumstances.
However, I am not persuaded  on the balance of probabilities  that Mr F did log on and
choose to subscribe to the Quote Booster, despite IBUKs log. This is because I found Mr Fs
detailed evidence as to why he could not and did not log on, or subscribe to the QB feature,
sufficiently persuasive - including his arguments that:
He had never logged on since opening his account
Relied on his daughter in dealing with such online issues (and she was at work 
during the alleged time
He had never logged on to his account after allegedly subscribing to QB
Still could not log on at the point he made his complaint and needed our 
investigators assistance to do this
I have seen nothing to doubt the integrity of Mr Fs evidence, even if his recollections are
faulty and he did actually log on. Given this, if I were to conclude that he had honestly
forgotten that he logged on in 2016, I would have to also conclude that he did have the logon
details and password back then; he had been able to do so without his daughters help;
that he had logged on for some unknown reason; that he had failed to enact any changes tohis account or portfolio but had mistakenly subscribed to the QB feature (which he clearly
had no intention of using). Overall, in my view, this seems pretty implausible.
For all these reasons, in this unusual case, I find Mr Fs evidence more persuasive than
IBUKs log. On the balance of probabilities, I believe its log is not sufficient proof, on its own,
that Mr F did choose to purchase the QB. Whether this indicates some sort of computer
glitch, I cannot say.
I therefore intend to intend instruct IBUK to refund the fees F paid, which I understand
are £1,920.33. Given I have reached this decision very much on the balance of probabilities, 
I do not intend to instruct it to add compensatory interest to this sum.
In response IBUK said it did not agree with a number of my arguments but was prepared to 
pay the amount in question. However, it also enclosed copies of the monthly online-
accessible statements and emails referring to these new statements. These showed the 
Quote Booster being charged on Fs account.
It also referred to three previous replies which included copies of statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 For the reasons previously outlined, I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
I accept that the Quote Booster and its cost was included in all the relevant statements and I 
am satisfied that the prices were correct (something I was not sure about earlier; hence 
asking for more information). 
However, this does not change my view that I am not persuaded that Mr F, or another 
representative of F, signed up for the Quote Booster in the first place  for the reasons 
previously outlined. 
I also think that IBUK ought reasonably to have offered a substantial rebate given the 
specifics of this case and, perhaps, thereby have avoided the necessity for F to bring a 
complaint to this service.
Putting things right
Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd must pay F £1,920.33.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd to pay F compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman