DRN-3480504
The complaint
Mr D complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly settled his 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the claim 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
In May 2021 the catalytic converter from Mr Ds car was stolen. He made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. Advantage arranged the repair with its approved supplier and it was 
completed.
In July 2021, Mr Ds car engine management light came on. Mr D took it to his local garage 
and was told there was an issue with the replacement catalytic converter. 
Mr D contacted Advantage and it told him to go back to its approved supplier that had 
undertaken the repair. Mr D organised to take the car to the garage but when he arrived the 
engine fault light had gone off. The garage said they could not do anything if there was no 
fault showing.
The fault light came back on after a couple of days and Mr D contacted the garage to book 
the car in. The garage told Mr D it would call him back to organise an appointment for the 
repair numerous times, but it never did.
Eventually in November 2021, an Advantage representative inspected Mr Ds car and 
confirmed the catalytic converter was faulty. They said this could have been diagnosed when 
Mr D had visited the garage even though the fault light had gone out.
Mr D then spent a considerable amount of time contacting Advantage to progress the repair. 
Advantage told him it had passed the claim onto another company and he should contact 
them. Mr D refused and eventually Advantage told him the repair was authorised and the 
garage would be in touch to book in the repair.
The garage did not get in touch with Mr D to organise the repair.
Mr D made a complaint to Advantage on 2 December 2021. Advantage responded on 
8 December 2021 to say as the complaint was now resolved the file was closed. However, 
the repair was still outstanding.
As Mr D was unable to get a response from Advantage, he had the repair completed at the 
time of his annual MOT. This was at his own cost of £704.59.
As Mr D was not happy with Advantage, he brought the complaint to our service.
Advantage did not submit any evidence for this complaint despite a number of requests from 
our investigator and after deadlines for responses were extended. 
.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and said Advantage should 
pay Mr D £704.59 for the repair to the faulty catalytic converter that he had paid for himself. 
He also said it should pay Mr D £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
When the view was issued at the start of April Advantage contacted the investigator by email 
and said it had not sent a submission for this complaint. It asked for confirmation how he had 
reached his decision. Our investigator replied and requested Advantage got in touch. 
There has been no further contact from Advantage. The investigator has taken its silence to 
mean it does not accept his view and therefore the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds claim to Advantage when his catalytic converter was stolen was accepted and settled 
by Advantage in a quick time. Mr D had no issues with his claim.
When the engine fault light came on to show a fault Mr D contacted Advantage.
I have looked at the details in Mr Ds policy. It says one of the benefits of the policy is; 
5 year guaranteed repairs. I therefore think it is clear that Advantage should cover the cost 
of any repairs found with the catalytic converter as it had only been fit approximately two 
months before a fault was identified.
From July 2021 when Mr D reported the fault, he has encountered issues with progressing 
the repair. Including long waits on the phone when he called to speak to Advantage, both 
Advantage and its approved repair garage not contacting him after saying they would and 
trying to pass him over to alternative claims handlers working on its behalf.
At the start of December 2021, as the repair still had not been sorted out, Mr D made a 
complaint to Advantage. Advantage acknowledged the complaint and then within a week it 
wrote to him to say it had recorded the complaint as closed as it was resolved. It was not 
resolved.
In a letter to Mr D on 21 January 2022 Advantage accepted it had closed his complaint 
incorrectly. It paid him £50 for the inconvenience caused and said the garage would be in 
contact with him directly to arrange the work.
In early February 2022 as no contact had been made by Advantages approved supplier to 
complete the repair, Mr D contacted Advantage again. He told it he had organised for his car 
to go in for its required MOT. And that he would instruct the garage to replace the faulty 
catalytic converter.
As there was no response from Advantage the repair was completed in the middle of 
February at Mr Ds garage at his own cost of £704.59. He was without a car at this point for 
four days.
Advantage have not made any further contact with Mr D and have not made any response to 
our services requests for information on this complaint.Therefore, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Advantage to pay Mr D £704.59 for the 
cost of the repair to the catalytic converter. I also require Advantage to pay Mr D a further 
£400 compensation for the time and inconvenience caused during the months he has tried to 
progress his claim for repair of the catalytic converter.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr D £704.59 for the cost of the 
repair to his car and £400 compensation for the time and inconvenience caused. It must pay 
Mr D within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman