DRN-2841717
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim, after it was forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Mr W, a director of K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf. 
What happened
K held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. It claimed on its policy after being 
forced to close due to the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Aviva said there was no cover under the policy, as extensions which looked like they might 
be relevant required damage to property. And Aviva didnt think Covid-19 had damaged 
property. Aviva said, while the policy did cover business interruption due to a list Specified 
Diseases, Covid-19 wasnt included in the list. So, Aviva turned down Ks claim.
Unhappy with Avivas response, K brought its complaint to our service. K said the policy 
covered pandemics, including SARS and MERS which were similar diseases to Covid-19. It 
also thought the Supreme Court judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
test case meant its claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Aviva had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt 
think the policy provided cover for SARS or MERS either and said the outcome of the test 
case didnt impact Ks claim. 
K didnt think Aviva had acted fairly in turning down the claim and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ks business. But, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ks claim.
I will deal in turn with why sections which look like they might be relevant dont provide 
cover.
Damage
The business interruption section of Ks policy says:
We will cover You for loss of Income resulting from Damage to property used by 
You at Your Premises for the purposes of Your Business. Such Damage must 
occur during the Period of Insurance, and be caused by a Specified Insured
Event(s)/Insured Event(s) which is not excluded by the Property Damage Section 
of this policy, and for which liability has been admitted under an insurance policy
covering Your interest in such property.
.
Damage is defined within the policy as:
Physical loss, destruction or damage
For this to provide cover, Covid-19 would need to have caused damage to property used by 
K at its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to property 
used by K at its premises, so I dont think this provides cover for the circumstances of its 
claim.
Prevention of Access
The cover provided by the policy is then extended by various extensions. The extension for 
prevention of access says:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises
This extension would require Covid-19 to have caused damage to property within one-mile 
of the boundary of Ks premises which physically prevented or restricted access to Ks 
premises. I havent seen anything to indicate thats the case, so Im afraid this extension 
doesnt provide cover either. 
Loss of Attraction
Damage to Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of Your 
Premises which causes a loss of Income directly due to a reduction in customers 
visiting the area
As this extension would also require Covid-19 to have caused damage to property within one 
mile of Ks boundary, it doesnt provide cover for Ks claim, for the reasons set out above. 
Specified Disease
The relevant part of this extension provides cover as a result of:
 
Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the
boundary of Your Premises

The discovery of an organism at Your Premises which is likely to result in any
person contracting an illness caused by food or drink poisoning or a Specified
DiseaseThe policy says that for the purposes of this cover Specified Disease is defined in the 
policy. The policy goes on to set out a list of covered diseases. Unfortunately, this extension 
also does not provide K with cover in the current circumstances, as Covid 19 isnt one of the 
specified illnesses.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Aviva might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Ks policy sets out a specified list of illnesses
which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it
provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific illnesses.
There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including SARS and MERS. 
Therefore, I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
disease.
Other points raised
K has also referred to the FCAs test case. However, the terms in Ks policy were
different to those considered in the test case, so I dont think the outcome of that case
impacts Ks claim.
I understand K believes Aviva havent acted fairly in declining its claim. But having 
considered the matter very carefully I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ks claim 
when there isnt cover under the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman