DRN-4049023
The complaint
Miss F complains about a car she acquired with finance provided by Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc (trading as Kia Financial Services) (Kia).
What happened
In June 2019 Miss F acquired a car under a conditional sale agreement with Kia.1 There is a 
dispute about whether the car was new. Under her agreement with Kia, she was to make 36 
monthly payments of £224.68, followed by a balloon payment of £9,990 in the 37th month. 
Miss F complains that she was not given better finance options, as she would have preferred 
not to have to pay a balloon payment.
In March 2022, the salesman sent Miss F a letter setting out the early settlement figure. She 
complains that this may have adversely affected her credit rating. However, the agreement 
was not settled early, and was paid in full.
In June 2022, the car broke down due to a problem with the clutch. It was repaired, but then 
it broke down again a few days later, and had to be taken to the garage again. Miss F had 
originally wanted to keep the car, but as a result of the breakdowns she lost confidence in it, 
and returned it at the end of the agreement. She complains about the clutch, and also about 
the tyres, which she says were not new but were already old when she first got the car. She 
says the tyres were worn and cracked after 16 months, and that their condition caused the 
car to fail its first MOT.
Kia did not agree that the clutch or tyres had been faulty in 2019, and it did not agree with 
her other complaint points either. Miss F brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. He concluded that the clutch must have 
been faulty to begin with, as it had failed after only 15,000 miles. But as the fault had been 
repaired, he decided that £200 was fair compensation for Miss Fs inconvenience.
He did not uphold her other complaint points. He said there was no evidence that a better 
finance option had been available in 2019. The cars MOT history showed that its first MOT 
had been in 2022, and it had passed, so he thought the condition of the tyres must have 
been the result of wear and tear. The car had been produced in July 2018 and registered 
less than a year later, and when Miss F had acquired it the mileage had been 30 miles, so 
he was satisfied that it had been a new car when sold. Miss F had asked for an early 
settlement figure, which is why she had been sent a letter about it, but since nothing had 
come of that, her credit file would not have been affected.
Kia accepted that opinion, but Miss F did not. She said £200 did not reflect the stress she 
had been put through. She had broken down in central London during the rush hour. The car 
had broken down a second time. She had not had a courtesy car. She maintained that the 
tyres were defective when supplied. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
1 The agreement states that the creditor is Hyundai Capital UK Ltd T/A Kia Finance but Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc has confirmed that it has accepted responsibility for this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, except 
that I think that the compensation should be a little higher.
I agree that the clutch failing so early suggests that it was not durable, and that this was a 
fault which was present all along. I also agree that £200 is not enough, given that the 
circumstances of the breakdown must have been particularly stressful, it was repeated, and 
Miss F had to make alternative travel arrangements. So I think that £400 would be fair 
compensation for this issue. Kia has agreed to pay this amount, if Miss F accepts my 
decision.
I do not uphold the other complaint points, for the same reasons as were given by the 
investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay 
Miss F £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman