DRN-2811450
The complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation AXA France IARD paid to Ms T in 
respect of mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Ms T also thinks AXA should 
make a further payment because of the trouble and upset it caused her when dealing with 
her complaint. 
What happened
On 16 February 2018 following a complaint made by Ms T, AXA agreed PPI had been mis-
sold and it offered to pay £2,955.84 to settle the complaint. At the same time, it asked Ms T 
to provide details of a bank account so that it could transfer the compensation directly to her. 
Ms T duly provided that information in an acceptance form dated 20 February 2018. 
AXA says it couldnt verify the account details Ms T provided. So, on 7 March 2018, it sent 
Ms T a cheque instead of paying the compensation directly into her account. Ms T says she 
had to take a taxi to her bank to cash the cheque and that AXA should reimburse those 
costs.  She also said she had to spend three to four weeks chasing payment after posting 
back her acceptance form. 
When it calculated the compensation, AXA didnt have all of Ms Ts statement data. So it had 
to make some assumptions about how it thought she would have used her account. Ms T 
didnt think it was fair that AXA had made those assumptions about her account. She said it 
should have used actual data.  
Ms T also said that she thought AXA should refund any secret commission it received from 
her PPI premiums. 
Ms T brought her complaint to this service. She said she wanted AXA to refund all fees, 
interest, charges, unpaid fees in respect of her account and to write a letter of apology. Ms T 
also wanted AXA to refund her postal costs, telephone costs and to compensate her for not 
having those funds in her pocket. She thought AXA should pay an amount of not less than 
£500 for causing her distress and inconvenience due to its poor customer service. 
Our adjudicator thought what AXA had done was fair and that she didnt think it needed to do 
anything further. Ms T disagreed with what our adjudicator said. She said she had to chase 
AXA eight times before her cheque was received. She reiterated that she wanted her out of 
pocket expenses incurred whilst pursuing her complaint to be refunded. 
As Ms T didnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to all the issues Ms T raised. Im sorry to disappoint her, but I 
havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
AXA accepts it mis-sold PPI to Ms T and so I dont need to look at the circumstances of the 
sale. I am looking at what AXA did in respect of the offer it made to Ms T to settle the 
complaint. 
Did AXA fairly calculate the offer of compensation? 
As AXA agrees PPI was mis-sold, I would expect Ms T to be returned to the position she 
would have been in if that policy had not been sold in the first place. In practice, AXA would 
have to refund all of the PPI premiums Ms T paid, along with any interest and charges she 
incurred because of the PPI. It should also pay 8% simple interest for any time Ms Ts 
account would have been in credit but for PPI. This is to compensate her for being out of 
pocket and not being able to use those funds as she may have wished. 
There are times, such as this, when a business doesnt have all of a customers statement 
data. This policy was sold in 1996 and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. I wouldnt expect either AXA or Ms T to keep records for such a long time.  
However, AXA does have a record of the total premiums Ms T paid, along with her actual 
statement data from August 2005 onwards. It has used the information it does have to 
assume when Ms T paid her PPI premiums. In the absence of any information to the 
contrary, Im satisfied the assumptions AXA made are fair in this case. 
Neither Ms T nor AXA has any data to show what she actually spent on PPI before August 
2005. So other than make reasonable assumptions based upon the information it does have, 
it is difficult to see how AXA could calculate Ms Ts compensation in any other way. It may 
also be the case that if AXA had actual records, the amount owed to Ms T could have been 
less than AXAs current offer. 
So, using those reasonable assumptions, I can see that AXA refunded all of the premiums it 
believes Ms T paid. It has also calculated how much interest she would have paid on those 
premiums. And I can see it has calculated 8% from the point her account would have been in 
credit. 
Ms T has asked for all late fees and interest to be refunded to her. It is not clear whether Ms 
T means she wants all of the interest and fees she paid on her account that arent related to 
the PPI policy to be refunded. If that is the case, I dont think it would be right for me to tell 
AXA to do that. The reason being that the purpose of compensation is to return Ms T to the 
position she would have been in if the PPI hadnt been sold. All of the interest and fees 
associated with the PPI have been refunded. If I ask AXA to refund the interest and fees on 
her account generally, she would be in a better position than if she had taken a PPI policy. 
On balance, Im satisfied AXA fairly calculated its offer of compensation to Ms T and its 
assumptions were fair. 
Commission 
Ms T asked for AXA to refund any secret commission in respect of her PPI premiums. 
However, I need to make clear that AXA was the insurer, it was not the lender. It would not 
have received the commission in respect of her premiums that Ms T suggested. 
The unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable in this case. 
The cheque 
I can see Ms T is not happy because AXA issued a cheque instead of paying compensation 
directly to her bank account. I can see from AXAs correspondence that it did so because it 
could not verify the account details Ms T provided. And I think issuing a cheque in those 
circumstances is reasonable. I appreciate Ms T wants her travel costs to the bank to be reimbursed. But as the cheque 
was issued to protect Ms T from fraud, I dont think it would be right to ask AXA to do that. 
Ms T says it took longer to receive her payment because of the cheque and I can see that 
shes very upset about that. But looking at this objectively, I dont think the difference in 
timeframe would have been significant. 
I say this because in the final response letter, AXA said it would take 10 working days from 
the date it received Ms Ts acceptance form to pay by bank transfer. It looks as though the 
acceptance form was received by fax on 24 February 2018 and the hard copy was stamped 
as received on 27 February 2018. So I wouldnt have expected her to be paid before 9 
March 2018. From the documentation provided to us by AXA, I can see that the cheque was 
issued on 7 March 2018 within the timeframe it told Ms T about in the final response letter. 
Ms T is seeking the refund of the cost in calling AXA. I can see she made eight calls to AXA 
 seven of those calls were within the 10 working day period AXA told her about in its final 
response letter. And AXAs telephone number is a freephone number, so I wouldnt have 
expected Ms T to incur any costs in calling that number.  
I do very much appreciate that Ms T genuinely feels very aggrieved and stressed about the 
efforts she made in pursuing her complaint and the extra work she honestly believes she 
had to do to secure her compensation payment. But looking at this objectively, I cant 
reasonably say that AXA should pay additional compensation to Ms T. The compensation it 
did pay has been calculated fairly, AXA has refunded what I would expect and Ms T received 
payment within a reasonable timescale. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Ms T, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and AXA France IARD doesnt have to take any further action in 
respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman