DRN-3053283
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with his Equifax Limited credit score. Mr O wants Equifax to reflect a higher 
score.
What happened
Mr O says that following the rejection of his mortgage application, his prospective lender said 
it was because of a low credit score from Equifax.
Mr O says that his credit scores are much better with the other two credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). 
After Mr O complained to Equifax, it said his score was low due in part to some late 
payments. Mr O thinks that Equifax shouldnt take account of historic entries from several 
years ago. Mr O doesnt believe Equifax when it told him that only he could see his credit 
score  not any lenders. 
Mr O thinks that Equifaxs algorithm is discriminatory and that it uses it to push customers to 
take up a paid subscription. 
Equifax told Mr O it took account of several factors when it generated his credit score. It 
explained that when his accounts had been settled or closed within the last six years, 
Equifax would take account of any late payments or arrears relating to those accounts.
Equifax explained to Mr O that the score he could see wasnt the actual score used by a 
potential lender. 
Equifax suggested that Mr O ask for a manual review of the lending decision. And it 
explained the updated process to review his Equifax credit report.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint be upheld. He said that Equifaxs 
credit scoring method was commercially sensitive. The investigator was satisfied that 
Equifax had given Mr O some reasons why his score was lower than expected. 
The investigator said that any prospective lender would see the same information about     
Mr O whether he paid for an Equifax subscription or not. 
Mr O remains unhappy with the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that this service resolves individual complaints  it would be for the 
regulator - to make decisions about the way in which Equifax runs its business. 
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me
Mr O thinks that his low credit score with Equifax has affected his mortgage application. But 
Equifax supplies credit data to lenders who then use this along with any information the 
applicant has provided, to assess a credit application and calculate a credit score based on 
its own mathematical model. Equifax doesnt decide the outcome of a credit application. The 
credit score on Mr Os personal Equifax file isnt given to prospective lenders. It is just an 
illustration of how Equifax thinks lenders might view his credit history. 
Each CRA has its own method and algorithms for generating credit scores. Just because   
Mr Os credit score is higher with one CRA doesnt mean that it must be the same with 
Equifax. 
Mr O is unhappy about the age of some of the negative markers that Equifax has referred to. 
On its website, Equifax says that if a credit account is closed or settled, the information  
which will include Mr Os repayment history  is kept for live decision-making purposes for 
six years from the date the account was closed or settled.  But it will be down to individual 
lenders to decide how far back they want to consider Mr Os repayment history. I dont 
consider I can require Equifax to make any changes to Mr Os credit file.
Im satisfied that Equifax has explained to Mr O what factors have affected his credit score. I 
cant see any evidence to suggest that Equifax has recorded the wrong credit information 
about Mr O. As I dont find it made a mistake, Im not asking Equifax to take any action in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman