DRN-1472292
The complaint
Mr K complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
 Advantage received a claim from a third party saying that Mr Ks car had been in an 
accident which was his fault. So they started looking into the claim. But Mr K said hed sold 
the car before the accident date, so it wasnt anything to do with him.
Advantage defended the claim and asked Mr K for proof that hed sold the car when he said 
he had. Ill call this the necessary proof. They said that he didnt send them that for some 
months. But in the meantime the third party took Advantage to court. Once Mr K gave 
Advantage the necessary proof, they were able to show the third-party insurer that Mr K had 
sold the car before the accident date, so he wasnt responsible. Advantage then had the 
court claim discontinued, removed the fault claim from the claims database, and explained to 
him that they had resolved the matter. But he thought that Advantage hadnt given him 
enough information about what was happening, and that theyd made up the claim and were 
lying to him about how they had handled it. He also wanted them to obtain compensation 
from the third-party for the stress and inconvenience he said that the matter had caused him.
 
Advantage didnt agree. They said theyd successfully defended a real claim against his 
policy, despite what they felt was his lack of cooperation. 
 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably, and she didnt require them to do anything else.
  
Mr K didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K cancelled his policy with Advantage on 13 September 2018.  On 20th September 
Advantage heard from a third-party insurer alleging that Mr Ks car had been an accident. 
But he said he hadnt been in any accident and that he had sold the car on 2 September. 
It didnt help that the third-party insurer at first gave Advantage the wrong accident date. At 
first, they gave them a date which would have been while Mr K still owned the car. But later 
they said that theyd made a mistake and the correct accident date was 5 September 2018. 
That was after Mr K said hed sold the car.
 
Its clear that mistake about the accident date wasnt Advantage s fault. And I can see that 
they explained to Mr K that the correct date for the accident was 5 September.  But they said 
although Mr K cancelled the policy with them, he didnt tell them that he had sold the car on 
2 September. So when the new owner had the accident, Mr K was still shown as the insured 
person. So Advantage asked Mr K for the necessary proof that he had sold the car and 
confirmation from DVLA that he had transferred ownership before the accident date.  
Clearly, this was important for them to show the third-party insurer.  Advantage say they also 
tried to phone Mr K about this, but he didnt accept the calls. 
According to Advantages records, they didnt receive the necessary proof from Mr K until 
May 2019. In the meantime the third party took Advantage to court because they could not 
disprove the allegation. Advantage felt Mr K was not cooperating with them to help them 
defend the claim although his policy required him to do that. And if hed given them that 
evidence earlier, and had cooperated with them to defend the claim, they could have 
rejected the claim much earlier and wouldnt have had to go to court or incur unnecessary 
costs of that. Despite that, theyd defended the claim successfully, managed to get the claim 
struck out, cleared his name and got the claim redirected to the correct car owner. But Mr K 
said the matter caused him stress and inconvenience. He wanted Advantage to pursue the 
third party to recover compensation for him. 
But Advantage arent obliged to do this, as Mr Ks policy gives them full discretion about 
defending or pursuing claims. Its common for insurance policies to do that, and insurers can 
decide about claims as they wish, whether the policyholder agrees with them or not. They 
are entitled to make a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable for them to 
contest or pursue any claim. Advantage had no option but to defend the claim on Mr Ks 
behalf. But they felt that it would have been avoidable if theyd had the necessary proof from 
Mr K earlier. And they incurred high costs in doing so, so I dont think it was unreasonable if 
they decided not to pursue the third party any further, but just bring the court matter to a 
close. Mr K wants this service to help him take the case to court. But as the investigator 
explained, this service cannot provide legal advice.  
I think that it was reasonable for Advantage to ask Mr K for proof that hed sold the car when 
he said he had. They needed that to show the third party. Their records show that the third 
party started court action against Mr K in February 2019. Advantage instructed solicitors to 
defend the claim, but they didnt get the necessary proof from Mr K until May.  Once they 
had the proof that he didnt own the car at the date of the accident, they successfully used it 
to defend the court case against him. The court dismissed the third partys claim, so the case 
against Mr K was dismissed.  Advantage explained that to Mr K, the case was closed, and 
as they were satisfied that the claim should not have been pursued against him, they 
removed the claim from the claims and underwriting database, so that it wasnt recorded 
against him. So its clear that Advantage resolved the claim against Mr K, at some cost to 
them, and that they satisfactorily explained to him what theyd done. 
Mr K still thought that Advantage had made up the claim against him, and that they should 
be banned from trading. Its not our role to punish a business, but instead to look at Mr Ks 
individual case and see if Advantage has done anything wrong. Im satisfied that they didnt. 
There is no persuasive evidence to suggest that they made the claim up. The claim was real,  
as Advantages file shows. And it wouldnt make sense for Advantage to make up a claim 
against Mr K because thats the same as making a claim against themselves, and because it 
cost them money to defend it. Mr K felt Advantage and/or their solicitors gave him 
misinformation or insufficient information about the court case, and he didnt hear from 
Advantage for months at a time. 
But its clear that Advantage did try to tell Mr K what was happening, but he would not take 
their calls. And I accept Advantage s account that between October 2018 February 2019 
they didnt receive any info any information from the third-party to pass on to him, so there 
was nothing to tell him. I see that they offered him £75 in compensation for his 
inconvenience as result of that, and I think thats reasonable.I do see that the situation must have been frustrating for Mr K.  As he saw it, he was being 
accused of something that he knew wasnt his fault. But that doesnt make it Advantage s 
fault. As the investigator also explained, Advantage had an obligation as an insurer to deal 
with any claim made against his policy. The claim was real, they had to deal with it, and all 
the evidence they have provided shows that they did. They also cleared his record of fault on 
the claims and underwriting database. 
 
I think that Advantage fairly defended him and his interests, explained what they had done 
and the outcome, and that this was reasonable of them. And so I dont require them to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
