DRN-3029023
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr B says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloyds offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989, which is 
after Lloyds says it sold Mr B PPI (due to the passage of time Lloyds cant be certain when 
Mr B took out PPI, but it has assumed it was when he first took out his credit card in 1985.) 
Prior to this there were fewer requirements on a business when selling insurance such as 
this. But Lloyds doesnt appear to have considered Mr Bs complaint any differently  to be 
fair to Mr B it seems to me they have considered the sale of PPI against these later 
standards. 
So on the basis that it puts Mr B in a more favourable position, I have taken into account the 
later industry codes of practice in considering what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Lloyds had to make it clear that PPI was optional. Because of the passage of time, 
Lloyds can no longer say exactly when Mr B took out PPI. But he took out his first Lloyds 
credit card in 1985, and it has assumed  in my view not unreasonably  that it was at 
this point that Mr B also took out PPI.
Unfortunately Lloyds no longer has Mr Bs credit card application from 1985. But, again I 
dont find this surprising given how long-ago things happened  businesses dont have to 
keep records indefinitely.
So given the limited evidence about an event which likely happened over 30 years ago, I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that Lloyds likely misrepresented the policy as not 
being optional or that Mr B didnt agree to take it out.
Lloyds has assumed that this was a branch sale and also assumed that it recommended 
the PPI to Mr B. This means it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And the 
evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr B was eligible for the cover 
and although he had some existing means in the form of some sick pay, he still seems to 
have had a need for cover. The policy would pay out 10% of the outstanding balance 
each month and would do so for up to 12 months, which is longer than Mr B told us he 
would receive full sick pay for.
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr B says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out,  I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because the policy only excluded things Mr B saw a doctor 
about in the 12 months before he took out PPI, so I dont think he was caught by the 
policy exclusion. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
and/or back problems.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave 
Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But on balance I think he chose 
to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was likely given. While Mr B, 
through his representative, said that he was financially stretched at the time,, Ive not 
seen anything else to suggest the policy wasnt affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr B 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, while Mr B has recently said that he wouldnt have made the same decision about 
the policy had he known all the facts, I think the evidence suggests more likely than not that 
he would have still taken out PPI. 
I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at 
the time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr B wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr B 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman