The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about a default Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) recorded 
against him.
What happened
Mr H entered into a loan agreement with Lending Stream in April 2015. Mr H shortly found 
himself in financial difficulty after his work situation changed. Lending Stream reported that 
his loan was in default as of 26 December 2015. Mr H didn't think this was fair. He says he 
immediately told Lending Stream of his financial difficulty and that it didn't respond. He also 
says Lending Stream reported the default too late and didn't notify him it intended to default 
the loan.
An adjudicator considered Mr H's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr H didn't 
agree and so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've considered everything both parties 
have said but I've only set out below the points I consider key to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I'm going to start by looking at whether Lending Stream acted fairly by reporting Mr H's loan 
as being in default. I think it did - I'll explain why.
Mr H's first repayment was due on 22 May 2015. It seems this payment was made on time 
but that none of the subsequent repayments were. The first missed payment was due the 
following month on 29 June 2015.
Lending Stream has provided a copy of a letter dated 30 June 2015, addressed to Mr H, 
notifying him of this missed payment. I've seen a copy of a similar letter dated 28 July 2015 
informing Mr H he was now two payments in arrears and another from 2 September 2015 
explaining that Mr H was now three payments behind. A letter dated 21 September 2015 
says that Lending Stream is terminating Mr H's agreement as the missed payments had not 
been remedied.
Mr H says he sent two letters to Lending Stream on 14 and 30 June 2015 and that these 
letters informed Lending Stream of his financial difficulty. He says Lending Stream didn't 
respond to these letters. Mr H has provided copies of these letters, although as they're 
unaddressed it isn't clear whether Mr H sent the letters to the correct address.
Lending Stream says it didn't receive copies of these letters and from the contact history it 
has provided, I've seen no evidence they were received. Lending Stream's letters are 
DRN-1617287correctly addressed (save for one missing a postcode) and so I think it's more likely than not 
that they would've been delivered.
So on balance, I think Lending Stream kept Mr H informed of the status of his loan and I've 
not seen that Mr H took sufficient steps (such as making a repayment plan) to prevent 
Lending Stream defaulting the loan.
I've next looked at the date of default. Defaults stay on credit files for six years, so I 
understand why Mr H is concerned about this. There's a balance to be struck between not 
defaulting a loan too late (so it stays on a credit file for longer than might be fair) and 
defaulting it too early, when a repayment plan might be more appropriate.
From the evidence I've seen, the first missed payment was the payment due on 
29 June 2015. Mr H has shown us his credit file, with the date of default recorded as
26 December 2015, which is just under six calendar months (exactly 180 days) after the first 
missed payment. At the latest, a default should be applied when the account is six months in 
arrears - and it seems that's what happened here. I don't agree with Mr H that the default 
was placed on his file after seven months, as Lending Stream has provided information 
showing the first repayment (£29.12 on 22 May 2015) was made on time. So I think it's 
reasonable to say the six month 'clock' for fairly applying the default started on 
29 June 2015.
As I've not seen clear evidence that Mr H was in successful contact with Lending Stream 
between the first missed payment and December 2015, I don't think Lending Stream acted 
unfairly by not defaulting the loan sooner - especially as it appears to have still been writing 
to Mr H up until the end of September 2015.
I understand that Mr H will be disappointed with this decision but I don't think
Lending Stream has acted unfairly by defaulting Mr H's loan, or by reporting the date of 
default as 26 December 2015. This decision brings to an end this service's consideration of 
Mr H's complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman