DRN-1696886
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons. 
From what we know about how Bank of Scotland sold this type of policy at the time, I think 
its most likely that Bank of Scotland made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt remember the PPI being discussed or mentioned. But thats 
understandable given how long ago the sale was. And I dont think I can reasonably uphold 
the complaint based solely on his testimony, given what I know about how this type of policy 
was sold at the time. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Although he had some sick pay 
through his work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 24 months and also 
covered unemployment. And Mr B had no other way of making his repayments at the time of 
sale, such as savings.
I think Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even 
if it had, I think Mr B would still have bought it. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr 
B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules about the non-disclosure of high levels of commission and profit share 
dont apply in this case, because the mortgage ended in 2006.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman