DRN-1202320
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has unfairly 
settled a claim on her car insurance following a road traffic accident. 
Background
Mrs F was involved in a road traffic accident. She says she was stationary when a bus 
collided with her car. So she made a claim to Advantage under her car insurance policy. 
Advantage has settled the claim on the basis Mrs F was at fault for the accident. And it has 
paid the third partys claim. It says this is based on CCTV footage which shows Mrs Fs car 
proceeding into the bus. 
Mrs F is unhappy with this decision. She says if the footage shows her car moving, its 
because the bus caught her front bumper and pulled her along. She wants Advantage to 
change the outcome of her claim as she wasn't at fault.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint and felt that Advantage had acted fairly by 
accepting liability for the accident on Mrs Fs behalf, based on the information it held. So he 
didn't uphold the complaint. 
Mrs F didn't accept the investigators findings. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I should first explain that this service isn't able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Advantage has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision when handling this claim. 
Mrs Fs policy allows Advantage to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any 
claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim on the best terms it thought fit. But it must 
exercise this right fairly and reasonably. This is common across insurance policies of this 
nature.
Ive taken all of Mrs Fs comments into account and I acknowledge that she feels very 
strongly that she was not at fault for this accident. But Advantage has made its decision 
based on CCTV footage. 
Whilst its possible Mrs Fs car was seen moving in the footage because of the bus hitting 
her bumper, Advantage had to consider what is more likely than not to have happened. And 
take into account what a court is more likely to decide if the case was heard. Advantages 
opinion is that Mrs F is more likely to be held liable, so its settled the claim on this basis. From what Ive seen, I dont think Advantage made that decision lightly or without proper 
consideration of all the evidence available. And Ive been provided with no other evidence 
that would persuade me otherwise. So I dont think Advantage has acted unfairly when 
settling Mrs Fs claim and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman