DRN-2663208
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited following a 
claim on his home emergency insurance. Mr M wants British Gas to apologise and to offer a 
higher level of compensation than theyve already offered. 
  
What happened
Mr Ms fridge is covered under his home care agreement. When this broke down, he 
contacted British Gas who arranged an engineer to inspect it. Mr M says there were a 
number of issues during the claim. He says British Gas cancelled appointments, sent an 
engineer who didnt carry out a full inspection, and he had to chase for updates. British Gas 
then decided the fridge needed to be replaced. Mr M says there were further problems when 
the supplier refused to deliver the fridge inside his home. This meant he had to take it inside 
which led to the fridge being dented. 
Mr M complained to British Gas and they explained their engineer identified a fault and, 
while they fitted a part, they recognised further parts were needed. This was then passed to 
the manufacturer, but as the parts werent available, British Gas decided to replace the 
fridge. British Gas apologised for the delay and overall inconvenience and offered £40 
compensation.          
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought British Gas offer of £40 
compensation wasnt reasonable and recommended they offer an additional £60. Mr M 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr M will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr M. The key facts about this arent in dispute. 
British Gas have admitted they got things wrong which led to delays and inconvenience. The 
only issue I have to decide is whether the steps theyve taken to put things right are fair and 
reasonable.
I think its right that British Gas should compensate Mr M for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. Mr M has told us he was left without a fridge for 
around four weeks, and what was particularly frustrating was that this was over the 
Christmas period. 
I can see there are two engineer visits. The first visit leads to the engineer referring the 
matter back to British Gas. The next visit then identifies a repair isnt possible. Mr M says 
there were two cancelled appointments which meant the claim continued for longer than it 
should have. And, he had to chase for updates to find out what was happening. I feel its 
reasonable for British Gas to pay compensation to reflect the frustration caused by the delay 
as well as the inconvenience in having to chase for updates. 
I understand Mr M was left frustrated at having to bring the fridge into his home himself. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy says it doesnt cover unpacking or installing new 
appliances. So, I cant say theres been an error by British Gas if the supplier refused to 
bring the fridge into Mr Ms home. That said, its clear Mr M was left frustrated when the first 
supplier refused to bring the fridge into his home. This led to Mr M contacting British Gas 
and they cancelled the order. A second delivery date was arranged which Mr M says was 
supposed to be through a different supplier, but it turned out to be the same supplier. The 
fridge was left outside Mr Ms home and he had to bring it inside himself. While the terms 
and conditions say British Gas wont unwrap or install new appliances, I think more couldve 
been done to explain this to Mr M so he wasnt left under the impression that the supplier will 
be bringing the fridge into his home. This understandably led to frustration for Mr M.     
So, while there has been frustration and inconvenience to Mr M, this has been over a limited 
period. I cant say there is any ongoing issues, but I do acknowledge that it will have been 
inconvenient to not have an essential appliance for nearly four weeks - and particularly over 
the Christmas period. Taking everything into account, I think British Gas, having paid £40 
already, should pay Mr M an additional £60 compensation  bringing the total to £100. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that British Gas have acted unreasonably so, in addition to the £40 
compensation already paid, they should pay Mr M an additional £60 to bring the total 
compensation to £100. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr 
M £60 compensation to bring the total compensation paid to £100. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman