DRN-4332607
The complaint
Mr A complains that he didnt receive his welcome bonus of 70,000 Avios when he opened a 
credit card account with American Express Services Europe Limited.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr A opened a credit card account with AESEL. The account included an 
offer of bonus Avios points if he spent £3000 on the card within the first 3 months.
Mr A spent £3000 but didnt receive the Avios points. He queried this with AESEL and was 
advised that he was ineligible for the Avios bonus because hed held an American Express 
account within the last 24 months.
Mr A complained to AESEL. He said he wasnt aware of the exclusion and said the account 
hed held previously hadnt been used for a long time and that hed requested to close the 
account in November 2020 but AESELs records wrongly showed that the account had been 
closed in December 2021.
AESEL didnt uphold the complaint. It said the terms of the welcome bonus meant that Mr A 
was ineligible because he had held an account within the last 24 months.
Mr A remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that because Mr A had held an 
American Express account which had been open within 24 months of the new account being 
opened, he wasnt eligible for the bonus points.
Mr A didnt agree.  He said hed requested to close his previous account and hadnt made 
any transactions on the account for over a year prior to requesting that it was closed. He 
said that not using the card was consistent with his belief that the card had been cancelled. 
Mr A said he wanted to be returned to the position he would have been in had there been no 
error  either by being credited with the Avios points or having the card fee refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr As account history. I can see that Mr A previously held an American 
Express card until December 2021.
Mr A opened the account which is the subject of this complaint in January 2023.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account. These say that the welcome bonus is 
only available if you havent held an American Express account in the last 24 months. This 
information was clearly stated. Im satisfied that Mr A would have been aware before he 
applied for the account that he wouldnt be eligible for the welcome bonus.
Mr A has said that he requested to close his previous account in November 2020. Ive 
reviewed the system notes held by AESEL in relation to that account, but I cant see 
anything to suggest that a request to close the account was received. Mr A hasnt provided 
this service with any evidence that he made such request.
Mr A has said that he hadnt used the previous account for over a year before it was closed. 
He says that this is consistent with his genuinely held belief that the account had been 
closed in November 2020. Mr A has also said that the previous account didnt show as 
active on his online account or his Amex app.
I havent seen any screenshots of Mr As online account or his app so I cant comment on 
this point.
Ive taken account of what Mr A has said and I agree that the absence of a record on the 
system notes shouldnt be the sole determining factor. However, as Ive said above, Mr A 
hasnt provided any evidence to support his assertion that he requested to close the account 
in November 2020. In order to upheld Mr As complaint, I would need to see clear evidence 
that he gave an instruction to close the account which wasnt followed by AESEL. I dont 
have enough evidence to uphold the complaint.
Mr A has made reference to the annual fee for the card and that he would like this refunded. 
I can see that when Mr A discussed his complaint with AESEL he was advised that he had 
the right to cancel the card and request a refund. He was further advised that the refund may 
not be for the full amount. If Mr A does choose to cancel the card, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for AESEL to issue a pro rata refund based on the number of months that Mr A 
has used the card.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman