DRN-3071306
The complaint
Ms F and Mr F complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a medical expenses 
claim Ms F made on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F was added to Mr Fs group private medical insurance policy on 27 February 2017. 
Shed previously been covered under a different policy with a different insurer. The policy 
was taken out on a moratorium basis. This meant that Aviva wouldnt cover any conditions 
for which a policyholder had experienced symptoms; received medication; undergone tests; 
been treated for or received about in the five years before the policy started.
In November 2019, Ms F was referred to a gynaecologist. She was diagnosed with 
endometriosis in December 2019 and her consultant, who Ill call Mr G, recommended that 
Ms F undergo surgery. Ms F made a claim on the policy for the costs of her treatment.
Aviva turned down Ms Fs claim. It noted that Ms F had been experiencing heavy and painful 
periods since 2010 and that shed been referred to a gynaecologist in 2015. Shed also been 
prescribed medication to treat her symptoms. And a gynaecologist had referred to their 
suspicion that Ms F was suffering from endometriosis in 2018. So it concluded that Ms F had 
been experiencing symptoms of endometriosis in the five years before shed been added to 
the policy. This meant that her claim fell within the scope of the policy moratorium.
Mr F and Ms F were unhappy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into this 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Ms F unfairly. She considered all of the 
available medical evidence. And while she accepted Ms F hadnt been given a formal 
diagnosis of endometriosis until December 2019, she felt the evidence suggested shed 
been suffering with symptoms of it in the five years before the policy started. So the 
investigator felt it was fair for Aviva to conclude that Ms Fs claim wasnt covered.
Mr F and Ms F disagreed. They said that Ms F had only been diagnosed with endometriosis 
in December 2019  a condition which had previously been missed by other specialists and 
instead they had treated her as having heavy periods. Ms F had been treated with 
medications to control heavy bleeding and pain. They said their specialist had said that 
many women are prescribed this medication to treat period problems rather than for 
endometriosis. They felt that Aviva were looking back on Ms Fs symptoms with hindsight, 
knowing her diagnosis. Whereas other specialists and doctors had used the signs and 
symptoms in conjunction with tests and had determined that she was simply experiencing 
heavy and painful periods.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr F and Ms F, I think it was fair for Aviva to 
turn down Ms Fs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr F and Ms Fs policy and the available medical evidence, to 
decide whether Aviva treated Ms F fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of 
Mr F and Ms Fs contract with Aviva. The policy was set-up on a moratorium basis, so Ive 
looked closely at what this means for Ms Fs claim. The policy says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if the
member had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition in the five years before they joined the policy.
A pre-existing condition is defined as: 
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
 the member has received medication, advice, diagnostic tests or treatment; or
 the member has experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before the member joined the policy. 
(Bold is my emphasis).
I think the contract terms make it clear that Aviva wont pay for any pre-existing conditions a 
policyholder has experienced symptoms of; or received advice, medication, tests or 
treatment for in the five years before the policy began. I also think the policy makes it clear 
that Aviva will treat any condition which falls within the scope of this definition to be pre-
existing, even if a policyholder hasnt had a formal diagnosis.
Aviva concluded that Ms Fs endometriosis did fall within the scope of the moratorium clause 
and so was excluded from cover. So Ive gone on to consider the available medical evidence 
to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for it to draw. 
Ms Fs medical practice provided Aviva with copies of her medical records. In the covering 
letter, Ms Fs GP stated that in 2010, the working diagnosis had been dysmenorrhea  
painful periods. The GP also said that in 2015, Ms F had seen a colleague with 
oligomenorrhea and elongated periods and was referred to a gynaecological team. 
Ive seen a letter dated 2011 from a consultant paediatrician which refers to the fact that Ms 
F had been prescribed Logynon, which had helped with menorrhagia and dysmenorrhea. In 
May 2015, Ms F saw a consultant gynaecologist, who referred to Ms F being troubled by painful, heavy and irregular periods. That consultant prescribed Ms F medication to take on 
the days that her periods were very heavy.
Ms F subsequently saw another consultant gynaecologist in June 2018. They said: (Ms F) 
gave a 7 year history of irregular painful periods with clots which she says is worsening 
especially in the last 3 years. This would mean that Ms F had been experiencing pain and 
heavy bleeding since at least 2011, with worsening symptoms from 2015 onwards.
Avivas clinical team reviewed Ms Fs medical records. It stated that heavy, painful periods 
are a symptom of endometriosis. It also noted that Ms F had been prescribed medication to 
try and treat her symptoms for several years. So while it accepted Ms F hadnt been formally 
diagnosed with endometriosis until two and a half years after she was added to the policy, it 
found that she had been experiencing symptoms of it, along with receiving treatment and 
advice in the five years beforehand.
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I find this was a fair conclusion to draw. It appears 
that Ms F was experiencing ongoing symptoms for at least seven years before her diagnosis 
and she saw a consultant gynaecologist around two years before she was added to the 
policy. Aviva has drawn a clear link between these symptoms and Ms Fs ultimate diagnosis. 
While I appreciate Mr G stated that Ms F didnt previously have a formal diagnosis, I note 
that he didnt suggest that Ms Fs past symptoms werent linked to endometriosis, or that this 
wasnt a pre-existing condition as set out in the terms of the contract. He also didnt state 
that this was a new condition which wasnt linked to Ms Fs previous dysmenorrhea and 
menorrhagia. I havent seen any medical evidence which suggests that these symptoms 
werent caused by endometriosis. And I also note Mr F referred to the fact that past 
specialists mightve missed Ms Fs condition.
Overall then, on balance and taking into account the totality of the evidence, I find it was fair 
and reasonable for Aviva to rely upon both the available medical evidence and its clinical 
review to conclude that Ms Fs condition fell within the scope of the moratorium. This means 
that while I sympathise with Ms Fs situation and Im sorry to hear that shes been unwell, 
Ive decided it was fair for Aviva to turn down her claim. If Mr F and Ms F dispute though that 
Ms Fs past symptoms were down to endometriosis, its open to them to obtain further 
evidence and to provide it to Aviva to review.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman