DRN-2062855
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) wont refund 
payments made using his credit card that Mr B says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
On 2 July 2019 Mr B says there were multiple transactions made from his credit card, held 
with Barclaycard, to retail stores in a different city to where Mr B lives and works. Mr B says 
he didnt authorise and consent to the transactions.
Mr B said he noticed these transactions on 4 July 2019, after using his card to make a 
payment for a parking fine and checking his mobile banking app. Mr B notified Barclaycard 
about the transactions. As Mr B still had his credit card in his possession, he didnt 
understand how the transactions were made.
Mr B says he had last used his credit card on 30 June 2019, to withdraw some cash from an 
ATM as he didnt have his debit card with him. Mr B says that there were several unknown 
males a few shops down that were watching him. Mr B explained he wasnt approached by 
the unknown males and completed his withdrawal. Mr B has suggested the males may have 
tampered with the cash machine to either clone his card or obtain his PIN.
Mr B says on 2 July 2019, when the disputed transactions took place, he was at work. And 
Mr B has provided confirmation of this from his employer. Mr B says that when he is at work, 
he always keeps his wallet in his car which was always locked, and he kept the keys with 
him at all times. The only people that had access to his wallet or car would have been 
friends, family or work colleagues when he himself was driving. Mr B says no one knows his 
PIN and he didnt think his card could have been taken by anyone he knows.
Mr B wanted Barclaycard to refund the transactions that he hadnt authorised. Mr B was also 
unhappy that greater checks werent completed by Barclaycard when the transactions 
happened. Mr B had, a few years ago, been the victim of attempted fraud and says Barclays 
assured him there would be greater security checks such as verifying high purchases 
through text or a call. Mr B says the spending on his card was unusual and was for high 
amounts and had Barclaycard sought to verify them, then the card could have been blocked 
preventing the fraudulent transactions.
Barclaycard say all the disputed transactions were completed with Mr Bs genuine card and 
were all correctly authenticated by Mr Bs PIN. It said as there was no evidence that Mr Bs 
card had been cloned and with the genuine card and correct PIN being used, and alongside 
Mr B being in possession of the card it said it considered Mr B was liable for the 
transactions.
Unhappy Mr B referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they considered no one other than Mr B 
or someone known to him with his consent and PIN disclosed, couldve authorised the 
transactions.
As Mr B disagreed and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
I think these sections of PSR 2017 are of particular relevance here:
67.  Consent and withdrawal of consent 
(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to 
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
(2)  Such consent
(a) may be given before or, if agreed between the payer and its payment 
service provider, after the execution of the payment transaction;
(b) must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between the payer and its payment service provider; and
(c) may be given via the payee or a payment initiation service provider.
75.  Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions 
(1) Where a payment service user 
(a) denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or 
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed, 
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers 
accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the 
service provided by the payment service providerSo a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given consent to the 
execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user (customer) denied 
having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider (in this case 
Barclaycard) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr B says he didnt consent or authorise the transactions and is seeking a refund of the total 
payments made from his account. Barclaycard has said the disputed transactions were 
made using Mr Bs genuine card and PIN.
So, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that its more likely than not 
Mr B or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions Mr B is 
disputing. 
The disputed transactions 
Barclaycard has provided evidence to show that Mr Bs genuine card was used for all the 
disputed transactions  and the card had not been cloned. This is known by the chip that 
sits within the card. The payment transactions were all authenticated by the correct PIN 
being entered  with no incorrect attempts being made.
So Im satisfied from Barclaycards technical evidence that Mr Bs genuine card was 
physically present when each of the disputed transactions was made and that the payments 
in question were authenticated by Mr Bs correct PIN being entered. This means I now need 
to determine whether Mr B consented to the payments being made.
Mr B says that on the day the transactions were made, he was at work  and this has been 
confirmed by his employer. The transactions Mr B is disputing took place in another city a 
considerable distance away from Mr Bs place of employment. So Mr B says the transactions 
clearly werent made by him. Mr B has explained when he is at work, he keeps his card in 
his wallet, in his car, which was locked  with Mr B having the keys on him at all times. And 
Mr B has said that he hadnt written down his PIN or shared it with anyone.
Mr B was concerned that when he had last used the card to withdraw cash from an ATM 
there were several unknown males located nearby that he thought were watching him. Mr B 
remembered this as he thought there was a possibility he could be mugged. Mr B wasnt 
approached by the unknown males and completed his ATM withdrawal. But Mr B is 
concerned that there was a possibility the unknown males had something to do with the 
fraudulent transactions. Mr B is either referring to the males identifying his PIN (often 
referred to as shoulder surfing) and / or potentially having cloned his card when he used the 
ATM. I understand why Mr B thinks this, but it is unlikely. Ill explain why.
Barclaycards technical evidence shows that Mr Bs actual card, and not a copy or clone of it, 
was physically present and used to make the disputed transactions. It shows the chip on the 
genuine card was read each time and the correct PIN was entered each time. Ive not seen 
any evidence to persuade me that Mr Bs card had been tampered with when he used the 
cash machine.And I also have to give consideration that the unknown males in question were, according to 
Mr Bs testimony, standing a few shops further down the street  meaning it is unlikely that 
they were able to oversee Mr Bs PIN. Sometimes fraudsters install tiny cameras on to cash 
machines, to record the keypad to identify a customers PIN. But knowledge of Mr Bs PIN 
without his physical card would be useless to a thief and Mr B has said his cash withdrawal 
proceeded without issue and he left with his cash and his card.
As Mr Bs genuine card was used, it would also mean the unknown males, if they had 
identified Mr Bs PIN, would have also had to obtain Mr Bs card. As Mr B wasnt approached 
or mugged when he used the ATM or after, the unknown party would have had to follow 
Mr B for several days until Mr B got to his place of work. They would then have to know that 
Mr B had left his card in his wallet and had also left the wallet in the car. They would then 
also have to break into Mr Bs car  steal Mr Bs wallet and then use it and return it before 
Mr B realised it was missing. 
Also, if an unknown third party had managed to gain access to Mr Bs card and PIN  
typically they would have tried to gain as much from the account, and as quickly as they 
could, maximising spend before the card was reported stolen. This didnt happen here. 
Transactions were made, but the card was left with an available limit, and no further 
transactions were made or declined. Typically an unknown opportunistic thief or fraudster 
would keep processing transactions until they were declined. And in this case, the card was 
also returned to Mr Bs possession  which an unknown opportunistic thief or fraudster is 
unlikely willing to do, as they run the risk of being caught when they could simply discard the 
card instead.
So overall, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr Bs card was cloned, or that unknown third 
party managed to obtain Mr Bs actual card and PIN, between 30 June 2019 and 2 July 
2019, then used it on 2 July 2019 and returned it to Mr Bs possession prior to 4 July 2019 
without him realising.
Ive also considered whether a known party had access to Mr Bs card and PIN. But the 
same logic as above would apply. A known party would have had to have gained access to 
Mr Bs locked car while he was at work, have known Mr B kept his wallet and card in the car 
and take the card. There was no evidence of the car being forcibly broken into. I accept that 
if it was a known party, they could have been in the car with Mr B at some point. But I have 
to bear in mind that the known party would have also have to have obtained Mr Bs PIN. 
They would then have to take and use the card and return it all without Mr B knowing. But, 
and importantly, Mr B has confirmed that he hadnt written down or shared his PIN with 
anyone. So I also cant conclude that someone known to Mr B took his card without his 
consent and used it.
I appreciate that Mr B says Barclaycard should have done more in verifying the transactions 
as they were unusual and for considerable amounts. But Mr B had an available limit on his 
card, and as Mr Bs genuine card was used with the correct PIN, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclaycard to execute the authorised payments. 
Sometimes we might say that the bank should intervene in payments that are unusual or out 
of character. But the bar for when that intervention should happen on credit card spending is 
high. The reason for this is a great number of credit card payments are made each and 
every day. Also, people typically use credit cards for higher value purchases, emergencies, 
special occasions etc... In this particular case, having looked at Mr Bs statements and his 
pattern of spending, I can see payments made to a range of what is considered to be high 
value or luxury retailers. And Mr B has used his card across the country in different cities. So I dont think it wouldve have been reasonable to expect Barclaycard to block his card or 
query any of this spending necessarily. The spending is within the credit limit, with the 
genuine card and correct PIN being used  that only Mr B and Barclaycard knew. So there 
wasnt anything wrong in Barclaycard allowing the transactions to be made thinking they 
were Mr B.
Overall, taking everything into consideration, its hard for me to see how somebody other 
than Mr B, or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions Mr B is 
disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclaycard to reimburse 
him.
Mr B has mentioned that the disputed transactions have left him with financial difficulties as 
he has a high balance on his credit card that he is struggling to pay off. Mr B should contact 
Barclaycard if he is having trouble repaying the account.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman