DRN-2799305
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about the difficulties they had speaking to Lloyds Bank PLC about 
their mortgage and an early repayment charge they had to pay when they sold their 
property.
What happened
In 2018 Mr C and Mrs C took out a three-year interest only mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC 
for around £70,000. They benefited from a two-year fixed interest rate product under which 
they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if they redeemed the mortgage before the 
end of August 2020.
In March 2020 Mr C and Mrs C found a buyer for their property. They visited a few Lloyds 
branches to try and get advice about their options for early repayment of the mortgage. They 
were told in branch theyd have to ring Lloyds mortgage department to discuss this. They 
tried many times but couldnt get through on the phone. 
Mr C and Mrs C went ahead and sold their house. When they paid back the mortgage to 
Lloyds, they had to pay an ERC of around £1,350. Mr C and Mrs C said if theyd been able 
to speak to Lloyds, they would have avoided paying the ERC. Alternatively, they said if 
theyd known about the ERC, they could have gone ahead and sold sooner, and avoided 
paying several months of their mortgage. They thought the ERC was high given the low 
amount of their contractual monthly mortgage payments and the fact they were close to the 
end of the fixed interest rate product period. 
Lloyds explained theyd put measures in place to deal with the high call volumes theyd had 
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and apologised to Mr C and Mrs C for the problems 
theyd had getting through to them on the phone. But Lloyds didnt agree to refund 
Mr C and Mrs C the ERC. They said it was clear from the mortgage offer when an ERC 
would be charged and how much it would be, and Mr C and Mrs C decided to go ahead and 
repay the mortgage knowing theyd have to pay the ERC and without speaking to anyone at 
Lloyds.
Since Mr C and Mrs C were unhappy with Lloyds response, they brought their complaint to 
this service. They told us theyd been shocked and disappointed theyd had to pay an ERC. 
Theyd felt let down by Lloyds and disadvantaged by not being able to get advice about 
paying the mortgage back early. They were also disappointed Lloyds blamed the Covid-19 
pandemic for the service they provided.
Our investigator thought Lloyds explanation about the measures theyd taken to deal with 
customer calls in light of Covid-19 was reasonable. And she thought Mr C and Mrs C knew 
from the mortgage offer and later redemption statement that an ERC would have to be paid 
and went ahead with the sale knowing that. So, she didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint. Since Mr C and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators view, Ive looked at 
everything afresh to come to a final decision about their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr C and Mrs C feel strongly about the service Lloyds provided. But, whilst I 
appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr C and Mrs C, I dont uphold their complaint, and Ill 
explain why.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to tell Mr C and Mrs C in branch theyd need to 
speak to their mortgage department to discuss questions about their mortgage. I can 
understand it will have been frustrating for Mr C and Mrs C not to be able to get through to 
that team on the phone. But, like other businesses, Lloyds were experiencing difficulties in 
handling their call volumes due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Lloyds explained to Mr C and Mrs C in their response to their complaint the measures theyd 
put in place to try and deal with high call volumes. And they apologised to Mr C and Mrs C 
for the poor service theyd received. Bearing everything in mind, and the unprecedented 
difficulties the pandemic caused for businesses and customers alike, I think this was a fair 
and reasonable response to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint about customer service.
Mr C and Mrs C say the poor service, and not being able to get the advice they wanted 
about how best to pay off their mortgage early, led to them having to pay the ERC. And they 
say they didnt know about the ERC until after completion of the sale of their property. 
 
I can understand that it would have come as a shock if Mr C and Mrs C hadnt known about 
the ERC until after theyd completed the sale. However, from what Ive seen, I think 
Mr C and Mrs C had enough information available to them to know that if they went ahead 
and repaid the mortgage before the end of August 2020, theyd be liable to pay the ERC. 
The mortgage offer Lloyds made to Mr C and Mrs C in 2018 set out in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading  as it ought to  that an ERC would be payable, and how much that 
ERC would be, if they paid the mortgage back within the two-year fixed interest rate period. 
The mortgage terms and conditions also explained the reason for the ERC and how it was 
calculated. So, Mr C and Mrs C had this information when they found their buyer in March 
2020. 
Lloyds issued a redemption statement in May 2020 which set out the amount of the ERC 
that was payable at that time. I understand theres some doubt about whether Mr C and Mrs 
C, or their solicitors, got that statement. But another redemption statement was issued later, 
in July. Whatever the position on that, I think Mr C and Mrs C went ahead and completed on 
the sale of their property knowing theyd have to pay an ERC because the mortgage offer 
and the redemption statements issued before completion had set that out. 
Mr C and Mrs C have suggested if theyd known about the ERC, they could, as an 
alternative to waiting until after August 2020, have completed on the sale sooner and 
avoided paying some of their contractual monthly mortgage payments. Theres no evidence 
they would have been able to finalise the sale any sooner. A redemption statement was 
issued in May, and another one was provided in July which suggests to me the sale process 
was still going on at that time and couldnt have completed much sooner than it did. In any 
event, for the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr C and Mrs C had the information they 
needed about the ERC at the time the mortgage offer was made to them in 2018 to make 
decisions about when it would have been best for them to complete the sale. And the 
position would have been the same, whether theyd managed to speak to Lloyds or not.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman