DRN-3340882
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC told him he would have to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) to move his mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Barclays. He took a five year fixed rate in November 2015. In 
November 2020, he decided to move his mortgage elsewhere. Barclays told him an ERC 
would apply until March 2021.
Mr H complained. He said that the rate was for five years, so the ERC should end in 
November 2020, not March 2021. He offered to pay the payments for the remaining four 
months instead of the ERC, but Barclays didnt agree. Mr H said the ERC wasnt fair, 
because it should have ended after five years. And it should have reduced in proportion to 
the amount of time left  not be the same amount throughout. 
Barclays said that the fixed rate ran until 31 March 2021, and so thats when the ERC ended 
too. It said that the ERC would be charged in full if Mr H ended his fixed rate before that 
date.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted fairly, so Mr H asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view there are two key points to Mr Hs complaint. Firstly, should the ERC run to 
November 2020 or March 2021. And secondly, if it does run until March 2021, is it fair that 
Barclays insisted on charging the full ERC rather than letting Mr H pay the remaining 
monthly payments.
Ive looked at the offer Mr H was given in 2015, before he agreed to the rate. And Ive looked 
at the annual statements he was sent every year between 2015 and 2020. All these 
documents clearly set out that the fixed rate, and the ERC, run until 31 March 2021. So Im 
satisfied that Barclays clearly explained when the ERC would apply to both before Mr H took 
the rate and before he decided to move elsewhere.
And I dont think that was unfair. Most lenders  including Barclays  offer fixed rates in 
increments of years, often two three and five years.
But its rare for a rate to be exactly two, three or five years. When it decides to offer a fixed 
rate at a particular level, a lender earmarks a tranche of funding to lend. Borrowers then 
apply for and are offered that rate until all the funding is used up. But mortgages often take 
some time to complete, and it might take some time for enough applications to be received. 
A two year, three year or five year rate is not therefore for exactly two, three or five 
years. It ends on a particular date, in approximately two, three or five years time. But exactly 
how long the rate actually lasts for any individual borrower depends on when they actually 
complete their mortgage  in practice its likely to be just over, or just under, five years rather 
than exactly five years.
Thats what happened in this case. Barclays had a funding line which enabled it to offer 
mortgages with interest rates fixed until 31 March 2021. These were described as five year 
rates  but this was approximate. Mr H completed his mortgage in November 2015, so his 
rate actually lasted for five years and four months.
Theres nothing wrong with this. As I say, its standard practice. Whats important is that 
Barclays was clear about when the rate ended, and made sure that Mr H was told that 
before it started. Im satisfied that was the case  and so its fair and reasonable that his 
interest rate ended in March 2021, as Barclays always said it would, rather than ending 
exactly five years after he completed on the mortgage.
The second part of this complaint is about whether it was fair for Barclays to charge the full 
ERC when Mr H wanted to redeem his mortgage with just a few months left. He offered to 
pay the full outstanding amount due in those months, which was less than the ERC, but 
Barclays refused.
As Ive explained, when a lender offers fixed rates it does so based on a line of funding that 
it has raised and wishes to lend on. There are costs associated with raising funds, which 
Barclays has to pay back (along with its own administration costs and so on). Those costs 
are fixed, and are covered by the interest payments received on the money Barclays lends 
out. 
Where a borrower ends their fixed rate early  which theyre entitled to do  Barclays then 
doesnt generate enough to cover its own costs. Its own costs may be increased if in turn it 
unwinds the funding mechanisms or the protection it put in place. Therefore, if a borrower 
wants to repay early, Barclays will let them do so  but charges an amount to cover the 
losses that causes.
The difficulty is that  to make the mortgage offer clear and transparent to the borrower  
Barclays must specify in advance the charge for repaying early. But it doesnt know when, or 
indeed if, that particular borrower will repay early, so it doesnt know what the costs are.
Therefore the regulator allows lenders to set a reasonable pre-estimate of costs. In simple 
terms, Barclays doesnt and cant know, when it enters into the fixed rate, whether Mr H or 
any other borrower will choose to repay early. But it knows from past experience on average 
how many borrowers will, on average when they will, and what the average costs of that will 
be. It then divides those costs across all the individual mortgages in the group of mortgages 
covered by that estimate.
That means that all mortgages in that group pay the same ERC, regardless of when any 
individual borrower ends their mortgage. In some cases, if the borrower ends the mortgage 
early, the ERC might not be enough to cover the individual losses from that specific 
mortgage. And in other cases, like this one, if the borrower ends the mortgage towards the 
end of the ERC period, the ERC might be more than the individual losses from that specific 
mortgage. 
But thats not unfair. Thats because overall  across the group  the ERCs total no more 
than Barclays reasonable pre-estimate of the overall costs of the proportion of the total 
mortgages in the group that end early.The regulators rules require lenders to calculate ERCs in that way. Barclays has shown us 
that it did so in this case.
So while I understand Mr Hs point that the ERC more than outweighed the payments he had 
left to make under the fixed rate, thats not a relevant consideration. The ERC is the same 
whenever his mortgage ends  which gives him certainty and the comfort of a fixed rate, and 
gives Barclays the chance to recover its costs across the group as a whole. Theres no 
relation between the ERC Mr H himself paid and the costs to Barclays of his individual 
mortgage ending early; rather, the ERC contributes to the overall costs.
And so if Barclays accepted Mr Hs offer, it would not have recovered the full ERC  and if it 
did so for every borrower that ended their mortgage just before the end of the fixed rate, it 
would not recover the costs it budgeted for when setting the ERC.
As I say, this is how ERCs are supposed to work, and how Barclays did in fact work.
That means that it wasnt unfair that Barclays refused Mr Hs offer and charged him the full 
ERC. It made clear from the start that he would have to pay the ERC if he ended his 
mortgage before 31 March 2021. It was his choice to do so rather than wait until that point. 
And the ERC it charged was set in accordance with the regulators rules and clearly set out 
in the mortgage offer Mr H agreed to. I dont therefore think that I can fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman