DRN-4372549
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society wouldn't allow him to withdraw a large 
amount in cash from his account.
What happened
In early July 2023, Mr P visited a branch of Nationwide and asked to withdraw the entire 
balance of his account which was £56,000. However he would not say what the withdrawal 
was for as it was his money and he could do what he liked with it. His request was declined 
although he was offered other options such as bank transfer, cheque or faster payment. 
The branch manager initially replied to Mr P that his request to withdraw the cash was not 
one that he could fulfil due to money laundering obligations. And because Mr P would not 
say what the cash was required for nor to whom it was going to be paid.
Mr P later spoke to an adviser at Nationwide and said that if a deal came up he would get 
more money if he paid in cash. But he declined to provide examples. It was explained to him 
that payments in cash could be used for tax evasion. Nationwide said that it must comply 
with money laundering obligations and as Mr P refused to give a plausible explanation for 
wanting the money in cash, it could not allow the withdrawal.
Mr P spoke to another adviser and explained the reason he wanted cash is because he 
didn't trust electronic transfers and he no longer wanted his money with Nationwide. And he 
also said he didnt trust cards and wanted to have the cash available to use instead of 
having to make multiple withdrawals. He was told about the risks in holding a large sum of 
cash at home, as this may not be covered by his home insurance policy for contents. And if 
this were to be lost due to theft or fire etc, he might not be able to claim it back. All of which it 
had to take that into account as this is part of keeping its members money safe for them. 
Nationwide also pointed out that Mr P had requested a large withdrawal in cash in 2021, 
which was also declined. He had made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
which was not upheld. He had however later been able to make that cash withdrawal.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr P told our Investigator a little more 
about his investment opportunity, but didn't want that revealed to Nationwide. Nevertheless 
our Investigator said that Nationwide had acted reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and whilst I realise this may be disappointing for Mr P, I am not going to 
uphold his complaint.
Mr P was requesting to withdraw a large sum of money. Under the terms and conditions of 
the account, if a customer wishes to make a withdrawal of over £10,000, there may 
sometimes be questions Nationwide will ask about the funds.
Mr P is elderly and I think that Nationwide had genuine concerns about what he wanted the 
money for. It told him there were safer ways of accessing the money e.g. by bank transfer or 
cheque. However he did not want that as he did not trust electronic transfers. He has said 
that he no longer wishes to keep his money with Nationwide.
Mr P has spoken to our Investigator about his investment opportunity. However I don't think 
that any genuine opportunity would expect payment in cash, certainly not of such a large 
sum, and I can understand Nationwide's concerns about tax evasion. Fraud is a major 
problem for banks nowadays and its terms and conditions reflect its obligations to protect 
customers against fraud or possible scams. If Mr P doesn't want to keep his money with 
Nationwide there is an account switching service which it provides. But no other bank would 
expect to receive payment in cash.
I understand that Mr P has given assurances that he is not being scammed, involved in tax 
evasion or money laundering. But I don't think that, without knowing whether Mr P has good 
reasons for wanting to withdraw the money in cash, or to whom it is to be paid, I could 
expect Nationwide to go ahead and allow the withdrawal.
I further note that Nationwide has explained to Mr P the dangers of both taking a large 
amount of cash out of the bank and keeping such a large sum in his house.
Mr P made a previous complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2021 concerning 
his request made around that time also to withdraw a large sum in cash. His complaint was 
not upheld. I note that he was later successful in making the withdrawal, but that was not the 
result of any decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As Nationwide has complied with the terms and conditions of the account, I think that it acted 
fairly and reasonably declining Mr Ps request to make the withdrawal. It has offered other, 
safer methods of withdrawal and if Mr P wishes to go ahead and withdraw the full amount in 
his account, whether by cash or any other method, then it is up to him to satisfy Nationwide 
about what he wants the money for and who it is to be paid to.
So I can't fairly order Nationwide to carry out the withdrawal, nor to provide any 
compensation.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman