DRN-4119001
The complaint
Mrs A complains that NatWest hasnt refunded her after she was the victim of a scam, in
which she sent funds to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
Mrs A was the victim of an investment scam. She thought she was dealing with a genuine
company who were arranging various fixed rate bonds for her. She was in fact dealing with
scammers.
As part of this scam Mrs A made two payments, of £25,000 each, to an account held at
NatWest. After discovering she had been the victim of a scam she raised a complaint with
NatWest.
Mrs As bank and NatWest are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional
protection for the victims of APP scams such as this.
NatWest didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said it couldnt provide any information or detail
any investigation it had carried out, but it hadnt made any error.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mrs A brought the complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into things but as she was upholding the linked complaint against the
sending bank in full, the complaint against NatWest wasnt taken any further.
Mrs As complaint and linked complaints were passed to me. As a result I have re-opened
and considered the complaint against NatWest as the outcome here impacts the other
complaints.
I considered the complaint and set out my findings in a provisional decision. Mrs A and her 
representative did not object to the findings in this particular complaint and NatWest 
although it responded to my information request did not provide any additional comments to 
the provisional decision. 
As neither party objected to my provisional decision Ill include the findings below that now 
also form part of my final decision 
Having reviewed everything in detail, I dont find NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably
in its answering of Mrs As complaint. Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that NatWest
met its requirements under both the CRM Code and otherwise, and therefore isnt liable to
reimburse Mrs As remaining losses with regards to these two transactions.
Amongst other things, regulated firms receiving payments, like NatWest here, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCAs Principles for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory requirements to, amongst other things, counter
money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally, given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse. I consider good practice meant not just looking out for situations where a
customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might be the
perpetrator of fraud, a money mule, or the victim of an account takeover.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that NatWest has signed
up to. The relevant requirements for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code (at the time of
this scam) include the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures to
prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. Where the
receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be the
proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely
manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for
criminal purposes. []
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are
being, used to receive APP scam funds. []
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures set out in
the Best Practice Standards. []
In considering all of the above, and to determine if NatWest met the standards required of it
under the CRM Code, I have looked at: whether NatWest opened the receiving account
correctly; whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should
have given NatWest any cause for concern; and finally, once notified of fraud, did NatWest
act appropriately and in a timely manner. If I consider there were failings in relation to any of
these, I will consider whether NatWest acts or omissions contributed to Mrs As loss.
While NatWest has provided our service with information about the receiving bank account
(in response to my subsequent enquiries) I must explain that it has done so in confidence.
This is to allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and NatWest has provided that
which is necessary for the determination of this complaint.
NatWests prevention, detection and response to fraud
I havent yet been provided with the full account opening information. But from what I have
seen this was an established business account trading prior to the payments Mrs A made.
As a result, I think its likely that there wasnt anything about the opening or operation of the
account that could have reasonably alerted NatWest that the account would later be used
fraudulently. For completeness I have requested the account opening documents and will
review these before issuing my final decision.
Ive reviewed the statements for the account which received Mrs As funds. The account was
an established business account, operating normally  with regular credits and debits. Imsatisfied that Mrs As payments crediting the account, or the subsequent spending of those
funds would not have stood out as being atypical  and certainly would not have given
NatWest cause for concern in a way that Id say it ought to have intervened.
NatWest have also confirmed that prior to Mrs As payments into the account it had not
received any other fraud notifications about the beneficiary account. And I can see that
Mrs As funds were spent shortly after being deposited and before NatWest received
notification of fraud from Mrs As bank.
Im satisfied NatWest took prompt action upon receipt of notification of fraud and correctly
informed Mrs As bank that no funds remained that could be returned. As such, I dont think I
can fairly say that NatWest failed to prevent Mrs As loss or that it could have reasonably
done more to recover her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
NatWest hasnt been able to provide the account opening information. The consideration of 
the account opening isnt within the jurisdiction of this complaint and I had requested the 
information for completeness only. As such, I have drawn the same conclusions as I had 
previously, that there wasnt anything about the account use, (prior to the scam funds being 
paid into it), which ought to have reasonably alerted NatWest that it would later be used to 
receive funds fraudulently. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and the 
estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman