DRN-1420351
 
The complaint
Miss E says Barclays Bank plc (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in November 2003. The PPI policy 
was sold to Miss E during a phone call.
Miss E says Barclaycard mis-sold the policy to her. She says through her representative, 
that there is no evidence that Barclaycard followed its call script during the call. She also 
says that she had very good sick pay and so was unlikely to use the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint and I will explain why.
I think Barclaycard made Miss E aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. I 
have been able to see a call script from around the time of sale that would have been used 
by a representative from Barclaycard. I cant be sure if the script was followed during the call 
to Miss E, but I am unaware of any issues with its staff not following the script at the time this 
policy was sold. I can see in the script that the representative would have needed to seek 
consent from Miss M before proceeding to at the PPI policy. So I am persuaded after seeing 
this that Barclaycard would have offered the PPI policy to Miss E and she chose it.
I think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Miss E, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She had 6 months full and 
6 months half worth of sick pay but I think would have found the benefit offered by the policy 
useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment. I couldnt find any other reason 
why the policy would be unsuitable for Miss E such as a restrictive or limiting term.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But even if she had been given clear information, I think she would have 
taken the policy anyway for the reasons I have already given. She was not affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and affordable. So 
I think it unlikely Miss E would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.In conclusion, I dont think Barclaycard has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E. 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss E because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss 
E about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has basically paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case. 
 
My final decision
 The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss E.
But Barclays Bank Plc has paid back to Miss E any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium and I don't think it needs to do anymore than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman