DRN-2322983
The complaint
L complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
NFU Mutual (NFU)s handling of a claim made under its commercial buildings insurance 
policy.
L is represented in this complaint by Miss B, so Ill refer to her directly in my decision
All references to NFU include their appointed agents.
What happened
Miss B made a claim to NFU on behalf of L in May 2018. She said an escape of water had 
caused damage to her property, and she had first noticed this in September 2017. NFU 
appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and assess the damage.
The loss adjuster arranged a scope of repairs to settle the claim. Within the scope it was 
suggested some of the damage to the floor was caused by subsidence. Miss Bs policy didnt 
include subsidence cover, so the costs associated with this damage were removed from 
NFUs settlement offer. 
Miss B raised a second claim to NFU in October 2018, and it said the issues relating to 
subsidence would need to be looked at further by a specialist contractor. Whilst this was 
ongoing NFU paid the final cash settlement for the escape of water claim.
Miss B completed the repair work and disputed NFUs decision to decline part of the claim 
for subsidence. She said it had left her with a shortfall for the repairs and therefore the 
replacement structure was of inferior quality. 
NFU instructed a second loss adjuster to attend the site in April 2019. The loss adjusters 
report said they were unable to comment further on the cause of the damage as the affected 
area had been rebuilt. It said L would need to submit further evidence from the builders for 
NFU to consider as part of the claim. NFU then reviewed everything and maintained its 
position with regard to the cash settlement.
Miss B complained to NFU. She said she was unhappy at NFUs decision to categorise 
some of the damage as subsidence, as opposed to being related to the drains. She was also 
unhappy with the delays and poor service received. Miss B added that she felt the original 
assessment by the loss adjuster was incorrect  in particular regarding the propertys 
foundations and tree roots being the cause of damage. Miss B wanted the remaining 
difference of the cash settlement paid so she could have a like-for-like replacement 
structure.
NFU responded to Miss B. It acknowledged there were delays in the claim and said that it 
should have considered the matter of subsidence sooner. It offered Miss B £250 
compensation for these delays. But NFU maintained its position to decline part of the claim, 
as, upon review with a specialist, it concluded that the damage was caused by subsidence 
and therefore excluded under Ls policy.
Unhappy with NFUs response, Miss B referred the complaint to our service. In addition to 
the points Miss B raised with NFU, she said she wanted compensation for 4 months of lost 
business revenue caused by the claim delays and reiterated her request for the difference in 
the cash settlement figure towards a like-for-like rebuild.
After the complaint was referred to our service, NFU made a further offer to Miss B. It offered 
her £750 compensation which it said covered the cost of the investigative works it didnt 
carry out. This brought NFUs total offer to £1,000. 
As part of this offer, NFU said that whilst it accepted these tests could have been completed, 
both the loss adjuster and subsidence specialist had confirmed that subsidence would have 
been the cause of some of the damage. So it wasnt going to review the cash settlement.
Miss B, on behalf of L, accepted NFUs offer of compensation but asked our service to 
continue to investigate NFUs decision to decline part of the claim as subsidence damage.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. She 
was persuaded by the evidence NFU had relied on to decline the damage to part of the floor. 
Our investigator was satisfied Miss B had been presented with alternative options for 
settlement and had chosen cash with the knowledge there would be a shortfall. And she 
found the settlement had been fairly calculated in line with the scope of repairs needed, less 
the value of any uninsured works.
Miss B disagreed with our investigators findings. She said that through the course of the 
repairs the assumptions of the foundation makeup of the site made by NFUs surveyor were 
incorrect. She stated the contractor who did the repair specialised in subsidence rectification 
and reinstated the concrete base of the floor without needing to do any remedial works. And 
she questioned how the continuous cracks in the floor could be from two separate causes. 
As such she said NFUs original diagnosis of subsidence remained unproven.
Miss B, on behalf of L, asked for an ombudsmans decision so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Miss B was fairly presented with NFUs offer of 
£1,000 to cover the delays and service failings with the claim. This offer included the matter 
of whether more intrusive investigative works could have been done before the claim was 
settled. And Im satisfied the offer was accepted in final settlement for this part of the 
complaint.
So whats left for me to determine is if NFU fairly declined part of Ls claim under the terms 
and conditions of Ls policy. Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to 
conclude the likely cause of the damage in dispute was due to subsidence. Ill explain why 
below. 
Ive checked Ls policy terms and I can see there isnt any cover for events relating to 
subsidence. Its not in dispute that further exploratory works would have helped here to see if 
subsidence was the main cause of the damage. And as the structure has now been rebuilt, it 
isnt possible to get any more evidence to support either parties position or gain a more definitive answer. So instead, Ive looked at all the reports and photographs provided by both 
parties to see if NFUs conclusions were reasonable.
Having considered everything, I am more persuaded by the comments and report provided 
by the subsidence expert appointed by NFU. I say this because overall, the report is more 
detailed, and it clearly sets out a process of elimination for the main cause of damage to the 
concrete floor. 
The report rules out an escape of water as the main cause of damage, saying that had the 
leak from the pipe been a determining cause, the ground would have shown more signs of 
erosion to the material below the floors base. In addition, the expert goes on to state that the 
larger cracks in the concrete floor (as seen in the photos provided) are towards the end of 
the property adjacent to conifer trees, and not around the drain outlet. As such he concludes 
the damage isnt drainage related, but most likely due to a combination of wear and tear, and 
possible subsidence caused by clay shrinkage.
Ive considered Ls builders comments that there werent any tree roots found when they 
excavated the concrete floor slab. And I also acknowledge they state ground conditions were 
damp, so they believe the damage is from consistent moisture leaking from the drain. But 
overall, these comments are less detailed than NFUs surveyor report. And I dont think it 
makes as convincing a case for what caused the concrete floor to crack.
Overall, I am more persuaded that the underlying and main reason for the floor damage was 
due to wear and tear, or possible clay soil shrinkage. Whilst it has been acknowledged that 
more investigations could have been done, I find that NFU have reached a reasonable 
conclusion based on the available evidence. I can see their appointed expert has reviewed 
the evidence provided by both parties, so Im satisfied that Miss Bs comments and photos 
have also been taken into account when making this decision.
Ive reviewed NFUs cash settlement for the insured works. I can see it was calculated and 
costed by both the building contractor and surveyor who attended the property. And the 
uninsured damage is clearly set out along with the potential shortfall to L. And Im satisfied L 
saw this before deciding to accept the cash settlement. Ive not seen any evidence which 
leads me to conclude the scope has been costed incorrectly, so I dont find it reasonable for 
me to require NFU to make up any shortfall in the repair work.
I do appreciate my decision on this matter will come as some disappointment to Miss B. But 
as I find it was reasonable for NFU to decline part of the claim as uninsured damage, I wont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B, on behalf 
of L, to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman