DRN-3393613
The complaint
Mr A complains about Revolut Ltd and the service they provided when they carried out CCD 
checks on his account.
What happened
Mr A held an account with Revolut which received payments from clients. Around October 
2020, Revolut asked Mr A to provide three months invoices as part of a CCD check. Mr A 
messaged Revolut to explain invoices he sends to his clients are confidential, due to the 
nature of his work. So, he asked if there was different information hed be able to send 
instead.
But Mr A encountered difficulties when trying to discuss this with Revolut. And he provided a 
tax return which Revolut said they couldnt see, and Mr A was worried this confidential 
information had been lost. As Mr A couldnt provide the invoices Revolut requested, Revolut 
decided to close Mr As account. But because of this, Mr A was unable to access his 
transaction history, which he needed to complete his yearly tax return. Mr A submitted a 
Subject Access Request (SAR) to obtain this, but Revolut didnt respond. Mr A was unhappy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A wasnt happy with the level of service he received when he spoke to Revolut 
throughout the CCD check process. And he was unhappy that they had failed to reply to his 
SAR, which he explained had made it difficult to complete his tax return. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset and inconvenience that had caused him.
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint initially. And Mr A remained unhappy with this so brought 
his complaint to our service. But while the complaint was with our service, Revolut accepted 
their service had fallen below the level theyd expect. And they accepted they had failed to 
respond to Mr As SAR in a reasonable amount of time. So, they offered to pay Mr A £150 
compensation and issue a response to his SAR to resolve the complaint. Our investigator 
put this offer to Mr A but received no response, so they continued with their investigation.
Initially, our investigator thought the offer put forward by Revolut was fair and in line with 
what they wouldve directed. But Mr A responded explaining how the failure to access his 
transaction history had impacted his ability to complete his tax return. Our investigator 
considered this and thought the compensation amount should be increased to £250 to 
recognise this.
Revolut accepted this after discussion with our investigator. And they confirmed that Mr As 
SAR response had been issued to Mr As working e-mail address on 18 March 2022. But Mr 
A remained unhappy as he didnt think the £250 offered was enough. As Mr A didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware its not is dispute that Revolut have acted unfairly. Revolut have accepted the 
service they provided during their chat conversation with Mr A fell below the standards theyd 
expect. And they have accepted they failed to respond to Mr As SAR request. So, as this 
isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this further.
In this situation, the main dispute centres around the actions Revolut should take to put 
things right. So, Ive thought about this in more detail below.
Im aware Mr A also raised concerns about the tax return he sent to Revolut, and the safety 
of this document. While I recognise within the chat Revolut said they couldnt see this, 
Revolut have since confirmed it was received by e-mail. So, Im satisfied that Mr As tax 
return, and the information within it, was secure. Because of this, I havent considered this 
complaint point when considering what actions Revolut should take below.
Putting things right
When considering what I think Revolut should do to put things right, any direction or award I 
make is intended to place Mr A back in the position he wouldve been, had Revolut acted 
fairly in the first instance.
Had Revolut acted fairly, they wouldve responded to Mr As SAR in a reasonable period of 
time, which wouldve provided him with his statements and transaction history that allowed 
him to complete his tax return in full. So, I think Mr A should be provided with a response 
with this SAR. I note Revolut has confirmed this was sent to Mr A on 18 March 2022 and Mr 
A hasnt raised any objections to this.
And had Revolut acted fairly, I think they wouldve engaged with Mr A during the CCD 
process in a more reasonable way. While I cant say for sure whether Mr A wouldve been 
able to provide the information they required due to the issue of confidentiality, I think Mr A 
wouldve been able to reach a conclusion to the process in a shorter period of time, with less 
frustration and inconvenience.
I can see throughout the chat Mr A asks questions that arent acknowledged or responded 
to. And on several occasions, there were significant delays in responded to any messages 
sent by Mr A. I think this wouldve been both frustrating and upsetting for Mr A, and I think he 
should be compensated for this.
I also think its reasonable for me to assume that Mr A was inconvenienced by his inability to 
access his statements and transaction history. Mr A has explained he needed this 
information for tax purposes and without this, he was unable to complete his tax return in full. 
I think this wouldve been worrying for Mr A, and he should also be compensated for this. But 
I dont think this compensation should consider any fines Mr A thought he may be subjected 
to as our service is only able to compensate customers for actual financial losses, not 
prospective. 
I recognise Mr A has also commented on the issue customers will be caused when Revolut 
closes an account as statements become unavailable, unlike most other bank accounts. And 
he thinks Revolut should be fined for this. But this isnt something our service is able to consider, as this issue relates to Revoluts business process and only the industry regular is 
able to comment on or change this. So, Ive been unable to consider this as part of the 
compensation amount I think Revolut should pay.
And Ive also thought about Revoluts point that Mr A was able to access his bank 
statements when the account was limited before it was closed. And I dont dispute this was 
the case. But crucially, this was only for a period of eight days. And Mr A had already 
submitted his SAR by this point, so I dont think Mr A wouldve thought to do this. Nor would I 
have expected him to do so.
Our investigator recommended that Revolut pay Mr A £250 to recognise and compensate for 
the impact Ive discussed above. And I think this award is a fair one and in line with what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been recommended. I think it fairly takes into 
consideration the frustration, upset and inconvenience Mr A was caused while also taking 
into account Mr A was able to withdraw the funds from the account and, from what Ive seen, 
he incurred to further financial losses. So, I think Revolut should pay Mr A £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr As complaint about Revolut and I direct them to 
take the following action:
Pay Mr A £250 to recognise the upset and inconvenience hes been caused. And;
Ensure Mr A has received a full response to his SAR.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman