DRN-4375796
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made on her travel
insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Miss E made a claim under the policy to cover medical, accommodation and travel costs
incurred by her whilst she was away from home and after she became ill.
Miss E required medical treatment shortly after landing. Great Lakes said she was admitted
to hospital within one hour of landing and within one hour of the policy being taken out (Miss
E says online by her partner). Due to the timing, it concluded that the medical emergency 
Miss E needed treatment for wasnt covered under the policy because her illness wasnt an 
unforeseen event at the time the policy was purchased.
Unhappy, Miss E complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt
uphold Miss Es complaint. As Miss E disagreed with the outcome, her complaint was
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2023, explaining why I was intending to 
uphold Miss Es complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 
..
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle insurance complaint fairly and promptly. And it
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Great Lakes provides cover for emergency
medical expenses and other related costs in the event of a medical emergency during an
insured journey as a result of your unforeseen illness
Insured journey means: a pre-booked leisure trip from or within the United Kingdom, started
an ended during the policy period and which includes a flight or pre-booked overnight
accommodation away from your home.
Policy period means: the period to which the insurance applies between and inclusive of the
dates shown as cover start date and cover end date on your policy schedule.
For reasons set out below, I dont think Great Lakes has acted fairly by relying on the reason
it has to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Miss E landed at 16.06 and was admitted to hospital at 16.46 
around 40 minutes later.
Great Lakes has provided a screenshot showing that the payment was
made/transaction for the policy took place at 16.07 and that coincides with the time
an email was by Great Lakes to Miss E on the same day. Thats very shortly after
Miss E landed.
Miss E says that her flight was very short and when the plane she was on landed,
she was feeling well. Shes provided a photo taken when she landed which she sent
to a family member at 16.06 via a messaging app. It shows her with a companion
smiling. I accept this message isnt conclusive evidence that she wasnt in pain when
the photo was taken. However, Miss E has also said that she only started feeling
unwell at 16.30 with sudden and severe pain in her side. And shes provided a signed
letter from the person who accompanied her on her flight. That letter supports that it
was a short drive to Miss Es relatives house and when unloading luggage from the
car, Miss E screamed in agony, and bent doubleas the extreme pain continued,
she was holding her side and he advised her to immediately go to hospital as he
suspected acute appendicitis, which she did.
Im persuaded by the contents of this statement, and it supports Miss Es version of
events. Given the small size of the island Miss E was visiting, and what she says
about the relative she was visiting living very close to the airport and the hospital, I
find the sequence of events she describes plausible. And I accept what she says.
Based on my research Im satisfied that although appendicitis can start with dull pain
which gradually gets worse and/or can be intermittent, its also not uncommon for the
first symptoms to present as severe and sudden pain. So, I dont think what Miss E
says  supported by the person who accompanied her - is inconsistent with that.
I can understand why Great Lakes had concerns about the time between taking the
policy out, Miss E landing and being admitted to hospital with severe pain. But in the
absence of anything further from Great Lakes, Im satisfied that at the time the policy
was taken out Miss E wasnt showing any signs of illness and so emergency
treatment was an unforeseen event at that time.
It took Great Lakes around nine months from the date on which Miss E submitted her
claim to notify her of the outcome. Im currently satisfied that this is too long, and her
claim wasnt handled as promptly as it ought to have been. I accept this wouldve
been distressing and frustrating for Miss E. Im intending to direct Great Lakes to pay
her £100 to reflect this.
I intend to direct Great Lakes to:
reassess Miss Es claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy on the basis
that her illness wasnt a foreseen event at the time the policy was taken out.
pay Miss E £100 compensation for the distress experienced for delayed outcome to 
her claim.

I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision for me to consider. 
Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings. Miss E was also happy with my provisional 
decision, but she was concerned that Great Lakes may look to decline the claim on other 
grounds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree with my provisional decision. So, Im satisfied that theres no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. For reasons set out in my provisional decision (an 
extract of which is set out above and forms part of my provisional decision), I uphold Miss 
Es complaint. 
Miss E is concerned that Great Lakes may seek to decline her claim on other grounds. To be 
clear, my decision only focusses on whether Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining her claim for the reason it has given; namely that her illness wasnt an unforeseen 
even at the time the policy was bought. 
When reassessing Miss Es claim, if Great Lakes does decline it a different reason, shes 
free to raise a further complaint (initially with Great Lakes) about that.
Putting things right
I direct Great Lakes to:
reassess Miss Es claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy on the basis
that her illness wasnt a foreseen event at the time the policy was taken out.
pay Miss E £100 compensation for the distress experienced for delayed outcome to
her claim.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman