DRN-3704335
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy. He believes the decision amounts to indirect discrimination.
Mr T brings his complaint via a family member acting as his representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer only to Mr T as its his claim.
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr T applied for a job and was successful in getting an interview. He informed the employers 
that hed need reasonable adjustments to accommodate his disability, but this request was 
refused. He made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue the 
employers for disability discrimination. 
UKI said there was only cover under the policy for employment disputes against a current or 
former employer, not potential employers. So it declined the claim. 
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He says its much more likely for a disabled person to be 
discriminated against during the recruitment process and as such, the policy terms indirectly 
discriminate against disabled people. He raised a complaint which he brought to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied UKI were entitled to decide 
the level of cover it offered to customers and she wasnt persuaded the decision made was 
discriminatory.
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts legal expenses policy says that it will cover employment 
claims defined as any dispute you have with your current or former employers at an 
Employment Tribunal.
Mr Ts claim isnt against a current or former employer. He was in the recruitment stage with 
a potential employer at the time his claim arose. But Mr T argues that the employment 
process starts when you first apply for a job and limiting cover in this way indirectly 
discriminates against disabled people who can be more at risk of not getting the job.
I need to clarify that this service is unable to make a finding on whether something 
constitutes discrimination as per The Equality Act 2010. This is because this service is an 
informal alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on 
the definitions set out within the act. 
However, I can consider whether UKI has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to do 
that I will take several things, including The Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
An insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt. Thats part 
of every insurers commercial discretion and, as long as this information is clearly set out in 
the policy documents, its not something this service interferes with.
UKI has clearly stated within the policy documents that its only prepared to cover 
employment claims against an insured persons current or former employer, and it charged 
a policy premium based on this level of insurance. Whilst some legal expenses policies do 
cover employment claims against potential employers, this isnt a risk UKI decided to insure, 
so claims costs for this risk werent factored into the price of the policy. So I dont think its 
fair or reasonable to direct UKI to pay for a claim that isnt covered and for which it didnt 
charge a premium for. 
Ive considered Mr Ts arguments on why he considers his claim to be covered. But Im not 
persuaded that it is. Whilst the process of becoming an employee will often start during 
recruitment, the employment itself does not. For example, there is no contract of 
employment or contract for services in place at that time, nor has an offer of one been made. 
So at that time, the employer was not your current or former employers as required by the 
policy terms.
Ive also thought about Mr Ts concerns that the policy term is indirectly discriminatory. But 
as Ive explained above, I cant make a finding on that. 
Im satisfied the policy term is fair and reasonable, and that it has been applied correctly and 
fairly to Mr Ts claim. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr T has been treated differently to 
any other customer making a similar claim. I appreciate he will be disappointed by my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman