DRN-1695807
Complaint
Mr H has complained to us about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy he took out with  Santander UK Plc (Santander), then trading as Abbey 
National, to go with a mortgage hed arranged in November 1990.
Background
Mr H says he wasnt able to claim on the cover and didnt need it. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this case and provided Mr H with a view that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Because Mr H disagreed his complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
I see that Mr H has told has us also about another policy he says he took out with separate 
mortgage borrowing with his daughter. He says this was a life policy, not PPI. He says this 
was in 1996 but Ive not seen any record of this date of sale from Santander. Our adjudicator 
has explained to Mr H that we would need to look into this as a separate complaint. But if 
this complaint hasnt already been made it will most likely be too late given that the deadline 
for new PPI claims has now passed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, Im not upholding this complaint.
These events are from a long time ago so its understandable we no longer have access to 
all the paperwork from the sale  although weve seen some records held by Santander on 
its computer system. But Santander has accepted that it wouldve probably advised Mr H to 
take out the PPI policy. This means it had a duty to make sure it was suitable for his needs 
at that time. Santander also needed to ensure that the information it gave him was clear 
enough so he could make an informed choice about taking out the cover.
I think it's likely that Santander made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose to take it out  although I can understand he may not remember this. I cant 
know precisely what was said to him at the time of the sale, so I am making my finding 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Its unfortunate that the actual sale documentation is no longer available, although itss not 
surprising considering these events happened over almost 30 years ago. So Ive relied on 
what Mr H and Santander have told us plus what I already know about Santanders sales 
process for this type of policy at the time. Having taken all this into account I think its more 
likely than not that Mr H would have known he had a choice about whether to buy the policy 
and decided to go ahead and buy it. Ive looked very carefully over what Mr H has told us about his situation when the PPI was 
taken out. I think he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I also think the policy was comparable in cost to 
similar ones I know were available at the time.
Mr H says he had good benefits with his job so he didnt need this type of cover. He also told 
us that he and his wife had been able to build up a good level of savings. I do understand 
why Mr H have told us about these, but Im afraid they dont necessarily mean the policy was 
unsuitable.
I think the mortgage wouldve been a big and long-term financial commitment and the 
consequences of not being able to keep up payments on it couldve had serious implications. 
If successfully claimed on, the policy would have paid a monthly benefit to help with the 
mortgage, for up to 36 months for accident and sickness and for up to 12 months if he were 
to lose his job. This is much longer than the sick pay Mr H said he had with his job. And 
whilst having a buffer of savings to fall back on is obviously a reassuring thing to have, 
having the cover would have avoided the need to dig into these for a relatively modest cost. 
So taking all of this into account, I think the policy was of use and I think it was suitable.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Obviously 
I cant say Santander provided all the information it shouldve. But from what I know the cost 
of the cover was separate from the mortgage repayments and so I think Mr H wouldve 
known how much it was costing. 
It follows that, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr H, I am not upholding this complaint. 
But Santander does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen it had already offered to do this and from 
what Ive seen the refund has now been paid. 
Mr H has also told us about two separate occasions when he was off work when his 
employer was paying him. He says he took the view at the time that he couldnt also claim 
under his PPI policy, but I dont think thats correct. Unfortunately, I cant help Mr H further 
with this issue. He says he contacted Santander previously about these claims and it may be 
that Santander will not accept them as retrospective claims after so much time, but it is of 
course open to him to approach Santander again.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman