DRN-3771059
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) dealt with a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M made a claim on her motor policy after she discovered that the catalytic converter 
was stolen from her vehicle while it was parked in a hotel car park. She called her 
breakdown provider who attended and said shed have to make a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
Mrs M made the claim to One Insurance who arranged for the car to be collected on the 
same day and to be taken to a garage for repairs.
 
Mrs M said there were several delays involved in the process. She said there were delays in 
being provided with a courtesy car, with the car repairs being completed and also that she 
was the one chasing One Insurance for updates. She complained to One Insurance who 
offered her initially £100 compensation but later increased this to £250 which included loss 
of use payments (due to her being without a car) for five days at £10 per day. It also covered 
the cost of the cars MOT (Ministry of Transport check) which had been due while it was in 
for repairs. 
Mrs M didnt accept One Insurances offer and complained to us. She said she suffered a 
loss in her earnings which amounted to £2,700 over the time she was without a courtesy car 
and wanted One Insurance to compensate her for this. She also wanted to be paid back her 
train fare from when she travelled home from the location of the incident (£50.80) and to be 
compensated for the distress she suffered. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and ultimately decided that One Insurance 
should pay Mrs M her train fare, the £250 compensation already offered and a further £70 
(at £10 per day) compensation for the loss of use of her car while Mrs M was without a 
courtesy car. 
Mrs M accepted the view though initially she had said that she should be paid at least for 
some of her loss of earnings, especially as she was told she would get a courtesy car on a 
particular day but this didnt happen until five days later. 
One Insurance didnt agree. It said the £250 offered was sufficient to cover any delays and 
loss of use claims. It said it can take up to five working days for it to provide a courtesy car 
and that this is a reasonable timescale. It added that it should have also been allowed some 
time to validate the claim before it could agree to provide a courtesy car. But it agreed to pay 
the train fare. It said it would also agree to make a further £30 payment for loss of use for an 
additional three days. 
One Insurance asked for an Ombudsmans decision and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it and to make the same award as that made by 
our Investigator. 
The policy
Mrs Ms policy covered her for loss or damage due to an accident, fire or theft. In the case of 
theft, the policy would cover the repairs and replace what was lost. The policy requires 
Mrs M to report the claim to her insurer and says that once repairs are authorised One 
Insurance would pay the reasonable cost of removing the car to a repairer and returning it to 
Mrs M after it was repaired. 
The policy also covers the cost of travel to an onward destination should the insured be 
unable to continue with their journey. The policy pays up to £100 per person and up to a 
maximum of £500 for all occupants and covers the cost of travel expenses, hotel 
accommodation etc. 
The policy also states that if the insured has comprehensive cover, like Mrs M did, One 
Insurance would provide her with a temporary replacement car while their car is at one of its 
approved repairers. 
The claim
One Insurance agrees that this was a valid claim and it also agrees that Mrs M was entitled 
to a courtesy car as her car was at one of its approved repairers. It has already offered 
Mrs M compensation for the delays she experienced and for the loss of use of her car. So I 
will now go on to consider whether the compensation One Insurance has offered so far is fair 
and reasonable. 
The incident took place on 1 March and Mrs M reported it to One Insurance on the same 
day. Her car was collected on the same day but Mrs M said she was told that a courtesy car 
wouldnt be available until her claim was validated so she made her own way home. She 
paid £50.80 to get the train home and provided a receipt for this. The claim was validated on 
3 March and Mrs M was provided with a courtesy car on 15 March after initially being told 
this would be available on 10 March. One Insurance completed the repairs and returned the 
car on 30 March after also carrying out the MOT. 
Mrs M said there were delays in the repairs being carried out and in her being provided with 
a courtesy car. She also said she had to chase One Insurance for updates on several 
occasions and that she was told on several occasions by One Insurance handlers that she 
would get a call back but this didnt happen. 
One Insurance does not dispute that there were delays but it says these were partly down to 
lack of availability of courtesy cars. It also said that the repairs were delayed due to the 
garage having to wait for spare parts. So I dont think it would be fair to hold One Insurance 
responsible for all the delays but this doesnt mean Mrs M isnt entitled to compensation.
One Insurance said it wouldnt have been able to provide a courtesy car until the claim was 
validated and that that there is also a five working day time frame within which it has to 
provide a courtesy car. As our Investigator said this is not in its policy terms and the terms 
state that a replacement car will be provided. One Insurance said a five day time scale is 
reasonable. I appreciate that courtesy car availability can sometimes vary and that it isnt 
always possible for the insured to be provided with one as soon as they need it. Nevertheless, if a policy allows for the provision of a courtesy car while the insureds car is at 
the insurers approved repairer, I would expect this to be provided when the insureds car 
goes in for repairs. And if that is not possible, I would expect the insurer to offer to cover the 
insureds travel expenses or to make a loss of use payment. 
One Insurance made a five day loss of use payment (between 10 and 15 March) but I dont 
think that is enough. Our Investigator said loss of use should be paid for a further seven 
days which I think, on the whole, is fair bearing in mind Mrs M had the courtesy car by 15 
March and also that she is being refunded the travel expenses she incurred on 1 March. 
One Insurance later said it would agree to pay for loss of use between 7 March and 9 March 
as well as the £50 already offered. It said if loss of use is awarded before 7 March this would 
mean it only had one day to validate the claim. Ultimately the claim was validated on 3 
March and One Insurance agreed to cover it. I think it follows that Mrs M had a valid claim 
from 1 March and should have the benefit of her policy cover from that day onwards. 
Mrs M said she is self employed and travels around the country for work and is therefore 
very reliant on her car. She said that she was not able to work for 14 days while she was 
without a car and she has provided a letter from a company she works with saying she lost 
£2,700 over those 14 days. I appreciate the difficulties Mrs M faced but I do not think this is 
something One Insurance has to compensate her for. Firstly, this is not something that 
would be covered under the policy. Secondly, the absence of repair parts which delayed the 
repairs and the lack of availability of courtesy cars I think were most likely outside One 
Insurances control. Our Investigator asked Mrs M if she tried to make other arrangements to 
get to work and she said she looked into hiring a car but as this would cost half her pay rate 
she did not think this was something worth while. I appreciate what Mrs M says nevertheless 
I do feel that, in the circumstances, it would have been possible to mitigate her losses by 
hiring another car or making other travel arrangements so she could get to work. And if she 
had done that, I could potentially have considered asking One Insurance to cover those 
costs if they were reasonable. But as this was not the case, I will ask One Insurance to 
compensate her for the loss of use of her car instead. 
As I said above, One Insurance has agreed to pay the £50.82 train fare so I will not consider 
this further. 
One Insurance has also offered £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mrs M. Bearing in mind the delays and the fact that Mrs M had to do most of the 
chasing, and the disappointment of not having the courtesy car on 10 March I think this is 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am upholding this complaint and I require One Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs M the following:
£50.80 for her train fare plus 8% interest per year simple from the date the fare was paid 
to the date it makes the payment; 
£250 compensation for loss of use and distress and inconvenience as already offered;
£70 further loss of use payment;
The cost of the MOT which it already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Anastasia SerdariOmbudsman