DRN-2459113
The complaint
Mr W complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) and their 
decision to approve his application for a high interest loan.
What happened
On 12 June 2019, Mr W applied for a high interest loan with ELL. This application was 
approved, and ELL provided Mr W with a loan of £5,100. Mr Ws repayments were £331.57 
a month, over a 48-month term. 
But Mr W missed his monthly repayment in September 2019. And in December 2019, he 
cancelled his direct debit. ELL attempted to contact Mr W on several occasions around this 
time, with limited success. They did this by phone, over e-mail and on two occasions, 
through field agent visits who attended Mr Ws property. Mr W was unhappy with this, and 
the fact the loan had been approved in the first place. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr W complained about ELLs decision to approve the loan. He thought it shouldve been 
reasonably clear from the information on his credit file, and the fact he asked for the loan to 
be paid into a different account to the one he received his wages, that he was struggling 
financially. So, he thought ELL shouldve asked him for more information and he thought, if 
they had, it wouldve become clear Mr W had been suffering with a gambling addiction at the 
time. So, he wanted ELL to refund any interest and charges that had been accrued on the 
account and to agree an affordable repayment plan. He also wanted the loan to be removed 
from his credit file.
Mr W also complained about the way ELL attempted to contact him when they were chasing 
payment and he didnt think field agent visits were appropriate. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset this caused. 
ELL didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks when approving the 
loan. And they thought theyd acted fairly as Mr W had confirmed he wanted to use the loan 
to clear the majority of his outstanding defaults showing on his credit file to help improve his 
credit score so he could apply for a mortgage. So, they thought the loan was affordable from 
the information they had available to them and didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They 
also felt theyd acted fairly by completing field agent visits when they were unable to speak 
to Mr W to arrange payment of the loan and its outstanding arrears. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the checks ELL 
completed were proportionate, considering the loan amount, the monthly repayment and Mr 
Ws income and residential status. And although she recognised there were defaults 
outstanding on Mr Ws account, she didnt think this meant ELL shouldve automatically 
declined the application and Mr W was intending to use the loan to clear these. 
Our investigator considered the outstanding credit Mr W had, his living expenses and his 
rent against his monthly income and she thought the monthly repayments were affordable, 
as it left Mr W with a reasonable remaining income. And she didnt think ELL had acted 
unfairly when instructing field agents to attend Mr Ws property, as she thought the 
communication between Mr W and ELL had broken down at that point and his account was 
in arrears. So, she didnt think ELL needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained his view that his request to have the loan paid into a 
separate account to the current account he received his income to shouldve raised 
questions for ELL. And the very least, he thought ELL shouldve asked further questions 
about this and if they had, he thought it wouldve become clear he was struggling financially 
due to a gambling addiction he had at the time. Mr W explained he was unable to obtain 
credit elsewhere and felt this showed his credit file reflected his difficult financial situation. 
Mr W also commented on his credit file and didnt think our investigator had reviewed it fully. 
He thought it was clear hed been missing payments in the run up to applying for the loan 
and again, he thought this shouldve made it clear to ELL that the loan wouldnt be affordable 
and would be placing him in further debt. And he didnt think the field agent visits were 
appropriate and that hed been left worried and upset by these.
So, he maintained his stance that ELL should refund him the interest and charges the 
account had accrued, and that the loan should be removed from his credit file. And he 
thought ELL should arrange an affordable repayment plan on any amount left outstanding 
after this. As Mr W didnt agree with out investigator, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. Ive no doubt Mr W 
was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time he applied for the loan with ELL. And 
from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied this was causing him financial difficulty. So, I can 
understand why Mr W would look at the loan he was provided and feel it was approved 
irresponsibly, leading him into further debt. And I can appreciate how upsetting and worrying 
the time surrounding the loan approval wouldve been and the difficulty Mr W has faced 
trying to stabilise his finances and recover from the illness he was suffering.
But when considering the complaint, Ive had to focus on the information available to ELL at 
the time. So, although Ive received further information from Mr W which highlights the state 
of his finances, Im only able to base my decision on what ELL wouldve reasonably known. 
And for me to say ELL have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied of one of two 
things. Either, that the checks they completed werent proportionate to the loan they 
approved against Mr Ws income. Or, if I think the checks were proportionate, that ELL failed 
to assess the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive first thought about the checks ELL made, and whether they were proportionate. There 
are no set amount of checks a lender such as ELL needs to make before approving a loan or 
credit application. Instead, the checks they make need to be proportionate to value of the 
loan, the monthly repayments and the customers declared income.In this situation, Ive seen Mr Ws payslip which shows he earnt £3,329.44 in May 2019, the 
month before he applied for the loan. But I recognise this included some overtime within it. 
Ive seen the wage Mr W received for April, paid at the start of May, which amounted to 
£3,264.81. So, to account for the overtime Ive seen Mr W received in May 2019, Ive took 
the average of both payments, which amounts to £3,297.16. I appreciate Mr W may have 
received overtime payments in both wages. But if this is the case, I think this shows a 
pattern of overtime Mr W was working, so I dont think its unreasonable to deem this amount 
to be Mr Ws average monthly income.
ELL approved a loan of £5,100, which I think is a reasonably low amount compared to the 
monthly income Mr W received. And the monthly repayments for this loan were set at 
£331.57, which equates to roughly 10% of Mr Ws monthly income.
Before approving the loan, ELL considered Mr Ws monthly income, his residential status 
and his contribution to rent and bills, his expected monthly expenditure, his last two months 
bank statements and the information provided on his credit file. I recognise the loan had a 
high rate of interest but I think ELL made extra checks to recognise this, by requesting to see 
a payslip from Mr W as well as recent bank statements. So, considering the total loan 
amount and the monthly repayment against Mr Ws income, I think the checks ELL 
completed were proportionate.
As I think the checks ELL completed were proportionate, Ive then gone on to consider 
whether they assessed the information these checks provided fairly. 
Mr W doesnt think ELL considered the information shown on his credit file fairly, as he feels 
it showed he was in financial difficulty due to the number of defaults and missed payments 
that were reported. Mr W has provided a copy of his credit file he obtained in 2020, and Ive 
looked through this. But as Ive explained above, I must consider the information available to 
ELL at the time of their decision to lend. So, Ive analysed the credit file they saw when they 
approved the application.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr W had several defaults on his account at the time ELL 
approved the loan. But, I dont think this means Mr W shouldve been automatically declined 
for the loan. ELL have explained Mr W stated he wanted the loan in order to clear the 
majority of the defaults, so he was able to improve his credit rating in preparation for 
applying for a mortgage. Because of this, I wouldnt expect ELL to decline the application on 
the basis Mr W had existing defaults, as he was taking steps to settle them. And as there 
were defaults on Mr Ws account, which he openly recognised himself, I think its reasonable 
for ELL to assume there would be late payment markers recorded on Mr Ws credit file as for 
a default to be recorded, payments would need to be missed. So again, I dont think late 
payment markers being present on Mr Ws credit meant ELL shouldve automatically 
declined the loan.
And Ive seen when ELL calculated the affordability of Mr Ws loan, they took into 
consideration his existing creditor repayments that were listed on his credit file. They also 
calculate Mr Ws living expenses based on his income, which I think were reasonable and in 
line with the way Id expect them to be calculated. And from this, Mr W was left with a 
disposable income of almost £1,100. So, when the monthly repayment was taken from this 
remaining disposable income, ELL calculated that Mr W would be left with just under £750 a 
month disposable income. I think this was a reasonable amount and I dont think this 
suggested to ELL that the loan they were approving would be unaffordable. 
Mr W has also said he thinks ELL shouldve been aware he was in financial difficulty, when 
he asked ELL to pay the loan into a different account to the account he received his monthly 
income. But I dont think thats the case.Ive seen ELL asked for statements from the account Mr W received his monthly income, as 
well as the account he wanted to receive the loan into. Both accounts were in Mr Ws name 
and both accounts suggested Mr W was maintaining his finances well at the time of his 
application. Its not unusual for customers to have more than one current account, using a 
main account to receive an income and pay bills. And this is the impression ELL were given 
from the statements Mr W provided. I recognise Mr W has provided testimony regarding the 
information he was provided in branch that ELL were deviating from their usual process 
when paying the loan into another account. And this may have been the case. But there is 
nothing to say ELL shouldnt have done this. I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr W 
requested the loan to paid in this way and I dont think I can say ELL acted unfairly by 
honouring this request. 
Mr W has explained he thinks this request shouldve prompted ELL to make further checks 
about other current accounts he held. And if they had, it wouldve become clear Mr W was 
suffering from a gambling addiction which was impacting his finances. Ive seen statements 
separate to the ones ELL saw at the time which confirms Mr W was struggling at the time. 
But, crucially, I dont think the statements Mr W provided to ELL at the time of the application 
showed any gambling transactions or suggested Mr W was suffering from an addiction at the 
time. 
Instead, the statements show Mr W was receiving an income and maintaining payments for 
his household bills and existing active credit. I appreciate the statements do show Mr W 
transferring money into other accounts, but again I dont think this is either uncommon or 
unusual for customers to do. As Ive explained, customers regularly hold several current 
accounts where they manage and monitor their money. So, I dont think this was enough to 
suggest to ELL that they should complete further checks or ask for further information. So, I 
dont think I can say theyve assessed the information available to them unfairly, or that they 
acted irresponsibly by approving the loan. And because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
Ive then thought about the actions ELL took after Mr Ws account fell into arrears. Mr W has 
explained his concern about ELL conducting field agent visits, with these agents attending 
his property. But as Mr W was in arrears, I think ELL were fair to take reasonable steps to 
receive payment from Mr W. 
Ive seen ELL attempted to contact Mr W on several occasions, through e-mail and by 
phone. And Ive seen that most of the time, ELLs attempts were unsuccessful. In November 
2019, ELL sent a message to Mr W explaining they needed to re-establish contact and that, 
if they couldnt, they may send a field agent to his property. Mr W then decided to cancel his 
direct debit in December. But after this, ELL were able to speak to Mr W and he made a 
payment in mid-December.
ELL then spoke to Mr W about his options and how to close his arrears. Mr W agreed to do 
so in January 2020. But Mr W made ELL aware during January that he was struggling to 
obtain the funds needed to make the payment and that hed make payment on 7th February, 
to which ELL agreed. But this payment wasnt received and I can see ELL made several 
attempts to contact Mr W when the payment wasnt received but received no response. So, 
they took the decision to send a field agent to Mr Ws address.
I dont think this was an unreasonable action for ELL to take, as theyd made Mr W aware 
previously that this was something they may do. And I think theyd acted fairly and 
reasonably by remaining flexible when Mr W explained he was struggling financially. Mr W 
didnt make payment on the agreed date and then ELL were unable to contact Mr W to 
discuss this further over the phone, through text and e-mail. So, I dont think I can say it was unreasonable for ELL to send a field agent as they attempted to re-establish contact. I do 
appreciate this wouldve been upsetting and worrying for Mr W, and wouldve felt as though 
he was being harassed. But, from the information Ive seen, I think ELL acted fairly as theyd 
exhausted all other forms of contact by that point. So, I dont think they need to do anything 
more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr W Ive 
placed serious consideration on his financial situation and the implications this decision may 
have. But for me to direct ELL to refund interest and charges, and alter Mr Ws credit file, Id 
need to be satisfied they did something wrong in the first place. And I dont think they have in 
this instance. 
And I appreciate Mr W has referred other complaints to our service which have been upheld 
and because of this he feels as though this complaint should be decided in the same way. 
But we look at each complaint individually, on its own merits. So, even if this raised is similar 
to others hes made where received a more favourable outcome, this hasnt impacted the 
outcome Ive reached
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman