DRN-2329608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that a business thats since become Santander UK Plc gave them 
unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M met with Santander in 2000 to discuss investing some of their money. At the 
time they had about £25,000 in cash savings in current accounts.
Santanders fact find and suitability report say Mr M was working as an engineer at the time, 
and Mrs M wasnt working. They had three children, no mortgage or other significant debt, 
and a recorded disposable income of just over £600 a month. Mr M was 44 and Mrs M was 
38. 
Santander recommended they invest the bulk of their money in ISAs. Its advice was to put 
£7,000 each in Maxi ISAs invested in an equity based fund called the UK Growth Fund. 
Santander advised them to add another £3,800 each to the fund the following tax year. And 
it recommended they put £1,200 each in the cash portion of their ISA, leaving £1,000 
between them on deposit for emergencies.
Mr and Mrs M invested the initial £15,400 across their two ISAs, but didnt add any more the 
next year. They left the investments until the middle of 2006 when they both withdrew them, 
overall losing around 10% of what theyd put in.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs M complained, through a CMC, to Santander. They said theyd been 
advised to invest too much, and to take too much risk with the money theyd invested. The 
CMC pointed out that Mr and Mrs M were first time investors and said Santanders advice 
hadnt been suitable for them.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and concluded Santanders advice had 
been suitable. She said theyd been recorded as speculative investors, and wanted to invest 
for the medium to long term. She noted theyd not invested the full amount recommended, 
and overall she felt that Mr and Mrs M had both the appetite and capacity to invest as 
Santander had recommended.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed. The CMC disputed Mr and Mrs Ms financial 
position at the time, and maintained Santanders advice had been too risky for first time 
investors like Mr and Mrs M. It said they ought to have been given guidance towards a low 
risk strategy for their first time investing.
As agreement couldnt be reached the matters been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Santander needed to find out information about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, investment 
objectives and risk appetite, and then give them advice that was suitable for them.
The fact find recorded Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances as set out above. The report gave their 
monthly net income as £1,170 with no mortgage or debt outgoings. It only gave other 
expenditure as £500, leaving £670 disposable income for the family. Its not clear what these 
other expenses were, but the form was signed by both Mr and Mrs M, and if this didnt give 
an accurate reflection of their familys finances Id have expected them to raise this at the 
time. 
Similarly, theres no documented record of how their speculative attitude to risk was arrived 
at, nor a breakdown of what this meant. Although I can see speculative was the highest of 
four available risk bands. The suitability letter does set out that Mr and Mrs M wish to invest 
over a period of at least 5 years for the potential growth above that offered by deposit based 
investments. You are prepared to accept the risk associated with equity based investments. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs M disputed this assessment of their risk 
appetite or what they wanted from their investments.
Overall, Im therefore satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to advise Mr and 
Mrs M on the basis that their circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk were as set out in 
the fact find and suitability letter.
The investment Santander recommended was a fund investing in a range of UK listed 
companies. It exposed a significant portion of their savings to stock market fluctuations  
albeit that Mr and Mrs M eventually decided not to go through with the following years top-
up to the investment, meaning they kept an additional 30% of their money in cash.
This risk was balanced a little by the £2,400 Mr and Mrs M were advised to put in their ISAs 
in cash, and the £1,000 they kept on deposit for emergencies. This gave them access to 
around seven months worth of their outgoings in liquid cash holdings.
The amount Mr and Mrs M invested meant they had a little over half their savings in the UK 
Growth Fund. Theyd said they were willing to take a speculative risk to get better returns 
over the long run, and they still had a monthly income surplus, to top up their savings over 
time. Ive thought carefully about their status as first time investors. But I dont agree with Mr 
and Mrs Ms representative that this fact alone meant the fund Santander recommended 
wasnt suitable. 
The fact find records that Mr and Mrs M  while inexperienced  were willing to take a 
reasonable degree of risk with their money. This investment doesnt have been for anything 
in particular other than long term savings, and the familys finances were stable  with no 
mortgage or other debt recorded and money to spare each month. Taking all this into 
account, along with the fact that - given their ages - Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be expecting to 
stop having employment income coming in for many years, I dont think Santanders advice 
was unsuitable for them. 
The investment Santander recommended gave Mr and Mrs M the stock market exposure 
that would give them the opportunity to grow their money as they wanted. While their money 
was exposed to risk, it was a level of risk Im satisfied they were willing to take, especially 
given the prospective investment horizon. And, with them eventually investing around half 
their savings and leaving the other half in cash, alongside their general financial position, I 
think it was a risk they were able to afford taking.It follows that I dont find Santanders advice to have been unsuitable and I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman