DRN-4008406
The complaint
Mr L complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) has unfairly declined 
a claim under his Home Buyers Costs insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr L took out an F&L Home Buyers Cost insurance policy when looking to purchase 
a property. Mr Ls lender provided a mortgage illustration in April 2022 that valued the 
property at £95,000.
Mr Ls chosen lender refused to provide a mortgage for his property. It said due to 
the current state of the property it would be unable to provide a valuation and is un- 
mortgageable. Mr L said this followed its review of several surveys that found issues 
with the condition of the property, including the roof and elsewhere.
So, he claimed under his F&L policy for the cost of the surveys hed paid for (£1,110).
F&L declined the claim, saying the policy covered him for certain insured perils. And 
here, a mortgage lender refusing to provide a mortgage could be covered but would 
need to meet certain requirements which included providing a valuation either 
showing the propertys value was less than 90% of what the policyholder offered or 
there must be a revised valuation of the property of at least 10% below the amount 
the policyholder has offered.
F&L said Mr L had failed to provide a valuation, so it was unable to consider the 
claim any further. But it would reconsider the matter if he provided a copy of the 
valuation.
Mr L brought his complaint to this Service. He said his lender was refusing to provide 
a valuation so he couldnt provide this. But he said the fact the lender wouldnt lend 
should be seen effectively as a valuation of £0 due to structural defects.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She 
said the lenders position effectively meant the value of the property was not as it was 
when Mr L made his initial offer. And given the lender was not prepared to make an 
offer at all, this meant the facts of the claim fell between either the property valuation 
or structural defect peril. So, she directed F&L to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
Mr L agreed, but F&L disagreed, saying: 
oCs claim did not meet the requirement of any of the insured incidents 
covered as Mr L was unable to provide any evidence in support of a value 
differential of the property or that the cost of structural repairs to the property 
would exceed 10% of the amount offered.
oA lenders refusal to give a valuation was not evidence the property was worth 
less than 90% of the amount offered or that there is evidence of a structural 
defect in the property or such a defect would cost 10% of the amount offered. 
And that lenders may decline to provide a valuation for various reasons and is 
based on their appetite  which in itself is not an insured event. And a refusal 
to provide a valuation did not equate to a zero valuation or a valuational 
differential in line with the policy.
oIt said even a speculative approach would still not lead to the claim being 
upheld as the property appeared to be of a value of around £95,000  and an 
average roof replacement (which it said was an overestimate given the 
property was terraced) was around £5,500. So, in any case it wouldnt meet 
the requirements of the policy.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 21 February 2023. Ive included an extract of this below.
Mr Ls policy covers eight separate perils. The two that are relevant to his 
circumstances are the property valuation and structural defects perils. Ive 
outlined the requirements of each of these below.
oProperty valuation peril: the lenders valuation of the property must be 
less than 90% of the amount the policyholder has offered.
oStructural defects peril: there must be a revised valuation of the property 
of at least 10% below the amount the policyholder has offered.
The policy is clear that both perils are based on a valuation that differs from the 
offer the policyholder has made. And in this case, its evident we do not have 
either the lenders valuation or a revised valuation of the property.
So, on its face, Mr L hasnt met the terms of the policy as he hasnt provided 
either of the required valuations listed above.
But I have to consider whether or not F&Ls decision to decline the claim is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular case.
Mr L has said the lenders refusal to provide a valuation or mortgage the property 
at all should be interpreted as a £0 valuation. I disagree with this, as the lender 
has clearly chosen not to provide one, and couldve simply said £0 if this was its 
intent.
I understand the lenders actions here will be frustrating to Mr L, but I dont see 
that as a failing on the part of F&L.
So, Ive thought about the other evidence available. Mr L has provided copies of 
the surveys and Ive reviewed these.
oThe first report Ive given is a detailed survey report. The surveyor made 
recommendations for various inspections and described the property as:
Originally well-built Victorian property that now requires substantial 
remedial work. It is essential that the further investigation 
recommended is carried out prior to exchange to prevent unforeseen 
remedial works and associated costs post exchange. Ideally, these 
costs should be deducted from the purchase price. Given the amount 
of work involved, there is a risk that the costs of the work will not be 
reflected in a future sale price.
Its evident to me there are roof works that will need to take place. But this 
hasnt been supported by any quotes or indication of how much these 
works will cost.
oThe second report was from a specialist on the timber and potential damp 
across the property. This quotes a sum of around £2,000 plus VAT for repairs for these works separate to any roof works.
Looking at the two reports, I have a very limited insight to how substantial 
remedial works to the roof would equate in terms of a cash value, or how this sits 
against the offer price of the property that valued it at £95,000.
I take on board F&Ls comments about the cost of a roof replacement. Having 
looked myself the figure it has given (£5,500) appears to be a widely recognised 
average. Even if I take this loose estimate alongside the quote for damp repairs 
it wouldnt be enough to meet either of the peril requirements. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to direct F&L to depart from its policy terms and pay the claim in 
these circumstances.
I note F&L is still open to receive a revised estimate from Mr L. If he obtains an 
appropriate property valuation or can provide other evidence (such as a quote for 
the necessary roof works), I expect F&L to consider this. But based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied it has done enough and doesnt need to do anything further at 
this time.
I concluded I wasnt intending on upholding the complaint for these reasons and gave both 
parties until 7 February 2023 to respond with anything further for me to consider. This 
deadline has now passed and neither party has responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and given neither party has responded with any new information, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman