DRN-3544621
The complaint
Mr P complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) didnt fulfil its 
regulatory obligations when dealing with his funds and should have done more due diligence 
before accepting the investments he made in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
He doesnt think Westerby lived up to what he understood of the word trustee in its title, and 
hed like his pension funds returned to him.
Mr P told us he thought hed dealt with companies that were FCA compliant, and explained 
that hed wanted low to medium risk investments, nothing high risk. He said he should be 
compensated for the loss of his pension.
What happened
Westerby has been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and those law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at various 
times. For simplicity, I have referred to Westerby throughout, whether the submissions came 
directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
The SIPP and investment applications
Westerbys relationship with Mr P began in late 2013 when it received his application for a 
SIPP. Mr Ps application, signed on 21 October 2013, confirmed he wished to transfer the 
cash value of five existing personal pension arrangements into the SIPP with an estimated 
transfer value of close to £94,000. At the time of the application Mr P was approaching 65 
years of age and he indicated that he wanted to retire ASAP.
Section 9 of the application asked, Do you have a financial adviser? This was answered 
yes and the details of Mr F of Abana were added. Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) is a 
financial adviser firm based in Portugal. In December 2013, Abana passported into the UK 
on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) services passport from 12 March 2013 to 
29 December 2015 and an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016. 
This meant it was authorised to carry out some regulated activities in the UK between those 
dates. I will go into this in more detail in my findings below. The SIPP application also 
included an instruction to pay an initial commission of 3% of the total transfers to Mr F.
An application form for an investment platform called e-Portfolio Solutions (EPS), provided 
by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also completed. This 
recorded the financial adviser firm as being Abana. Mr F, in his capacity as a financial 
adviser with Abana, signed a declaration on the application on 31 October 2013. The 
application was signed by Mr P on the same date. Around the same time Mr P signed a form 
waiving his right to cancel his SIPP application during the 30-days cancellation period. His 
reason was to allow quicker investments. The application form was signed by Westerby, as 
trustees of Mr Ps SIPP, in December 2013 and sent on to AMI.
In January 2014 the SIPP account was established, the transfers began to come in and Mr P 
received a pension commencement lump sum of £15,339 from Westerby.
On 23 April 2014 a handwritten letter was sent to Westerby, purporting to be from Mr P. It 
stated he was fully aware of the risks involved with his chosen investments and asked it to 
follow his previously given instructions and invest 50% of his fund with the Kijani Commodity 
Fund and 50% with the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF). The letter read:
 I simply ask you to make the investments and forward the remainder of my tax 
free cash ASAP and I do not wish any other contact from your company regarding 
my investment or tax free cash requirements. Thank you.
Mr P has no recollection of writing this letter.
Mr Ps monies were invested in the Kijani Commodity Fund and in the SAMAIF. Both of 
these funds had initially been based in Mauritius (with one later moving to the Cayman 
Islands).
A further lump sum of £8,066 was paid to him by Westerby in May 2014.
Updates on the investments
On 11 November 2014 Westerby wrote to Mr P about his investments with AMI. It explained 
that the funds Mr P held would, following a Policy Statement from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be classed as non-standard assets. It explained that such 
assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only permitted such assets where full 
investment advice had been provided by a regulated financial adviser. It further explained 
that the investments might be higher risk than Mr P originally considered, and it was 
therefore imperative that Mr P discuss this with his financial adviser. It provided the contact 
details for Abana.
Westerbys letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission had issued 
enforcement orders against the Kijani Fund and the SAMAIF. They said they had not 
established what the enforcement orders related to, but that no new investment in the funds 
was permitted. Westerby asked Mr P to confirm hed sought regulated financial advice from 
Abana and wanted to continue to hold the investments. Mr P provided this confirmation on 
12 November 2014.
Although he cant recall the date, Mr P has told us he remembers contacting his adviser 
with a problem but, he assured me it was ok, nothing to worry about. That was the last 
time I saw or heard from him.
In June 2015, Westerby sent a letter to Mr P providing an update on the Kijani fund. The 
letter explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had taken 
the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI but it had not been able to 
ascertain who made the statement originally.
Westerby were aware some investors in the Kijani fund were still awaiting settlement 
of deals that were placed more than 90 days ago.
They strongly recommended that Mr P contact his regulated financial adviser.
Abana customers were being referred to a new business called Abana FS Ltd, which 
was directly authorised by the FCA.Later that month, Abana wrote to Mr P explaining that it wasnt authorised to provide the 
advice it had given him. It also explained:
The letter from Westerby [the June 2015 one I mention above] states that we are in 
the process of novating (moving over) all of our clients to Abana FS Ltd (Abana 
FS). I wish to clarify this matter by stating that this is not the case. We do not 
consider Abana FS to be suitably independent to provide advice to you about your 
SIPP.
In July 2015 Westerby told Mr P the Kijani fund had been suspended (the repayment of the 
investment earlier mentioned did not materialise) and the business ultimately behind AMI 
and the EPS platform had had its licence suspended by the Mauritian Financial Services 
Commission. He was also told the SAMAIF had been suspended.
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mr P again. They said:
 we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund 
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with 
Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. 
We understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed.
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will remain 
within the SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the 
liquid and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds £36,711. 08 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds £37,398. 06 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter also invited Mr P to let them know if he wished to redeem any or all of the liquid 
funds within the SIPP EPS account, and set out the redemption timescales for what were 
described as the underlying funds. Westerby explained that the suspension on the SAMAIF 
had been lifted, that the fund was expected to begin trading again in February 2016 and that 
theyd contact Mr P again once they had further information. Once again, Westerby 
recommended that Mr P seek independent financial advice.
Mr Ps new financial adviser contacted Westerby on 20 January 2016 and a redemption form 
was sent to them the same day for Mr Ps signature. Westerby has told us the redemption 
form was never returned to it.
On 24 May 2016 Westerby sent a further update to Mr P. They said the auditors 
investigations into the Kijani Fund were ongoing and it was likely the liquidation of this fund 
would take a number of years. About the SAMAIF, the letter said:
The SAMAIF is still not trading. We understand that the managers of the fund are 
working with the Mauritius Financial Services Commission (MFSC) in order to gain 
regulatory approval for the fund to trade, however we have not been provided with a 
timescale for this to be completed 
ePortfolio Solutions had previously treated the SAMAIF as part of their "liquid" 
Managed Portfolio L, as it had been anticipated that the fund would begin trading imminently. As the fund is still not trading they are now including the SAMAIF as part 
of their "suspended" Managed Portfolio S for the time being.
Under the heading Your SIPP Value the letter continued:
The current value of your SIPP is as follows:
ePortfolio Solutions Account
EPS Managed Portfolio L £4,374.17
EPS Managed Portfolio S £64,453.77
GBP Cash £1,220.63
Managed Portfolio L represents liquid (tradeable) funds while Managed Portfolio S 
represents non-tradeable funds, ie. Kijani Commodity Fund and SAMAIF. For the 
purposes of calculations of benefits, we will treat the funds within Managed Portfolio 
S as having a nil value. This is due to the uncertainty regarding the true value of 
these funds at this time.
Investments held outside the ePortfolio Solutions Account
SIPP Bank Account £351.42
Finally, Westerby explained that an independent third-party compliance consultancy firm had 
completed their investigation of the advice provided to Mr P by Abana and deemed that this 
advice was not suitable. Westerby said:
 we understand that they will be carrying out redress calculations over the course 
of the next month. The aim of the redress is to put your fund [in] a position equivalent 
to that you would have been in had you not invested into the funds under the 
ePortfolio Solutions platform.
In its 6 June 2016 submissions to us on another complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said:
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy 
of their latest update is enclosed.
I have also seen a copy of an update from SAMAIF dated 24 April 2016, which suggested 
work to begin trading was still ongoing at that time.
The situation with either fund has not improved, and Mr Ps investments in them, made on 
the EPS platform, currently have no realisable value.
In July 2016 Mr P accepted an offer of redress (£85,891.17) made to him by the independent 
compliance consultancy firm on behalf of Abana, but he did not receive any money.
I understand Abana ceased trading in 2020.
Mr Ps complaint and Westerbys response
In July 2018 Mr P complained that Westerby hadnt fulfilled its regulatory obligations when 
dealing with his funds. He explained that the loss of his pension funds had left him in financial difficulty; hed had to move to a smaller, more affordable property and sell his car 
and personal belongings.
Westerby responded to Mr Ps complaint on 5 September 2018, rejecting it. In summary they 
said:
Westerby do not hold the necessary permissions to provide financial advice.
Theyd verified that Abana were authorised by the FCA to carry out business in the 
UK.
At the time of Mr Ps SIPP application the Financial Services Register did not provide 
details of Abanas permissions  Our only source of reference to ensure that the firm 
had the required permissions was through enquiry to the firm itself.
It was the responsibility of Mr F as Mr Ps adviser at Abana to ensure the funds 
selected were appropriate for Mr Ps attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Its reasonable to believe Mr P would have been able to recover his funds if hed 
instructed Westerby to redeem them in November 2014 or soon after Westerbys 
letter of 23 December 2015.
Overall, Westerby did not consider itself responsible for the loss of Mr Ps funds. They said 
theyd accepted Mr Ps SIPP application in good faith, based on the information available to 
them at the time.
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has been 
published on our website under DRN7770418.
This complaint features the same key point  namely the permissions held and required by 
an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge 
of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on that case and its latest 
submissions on this case are made with reference to the published decision.
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review each outstanding complaint involving Abana  
including Mr Ps  and if it was not prepared to change its position after taking account of the 
detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why that was the case.
Westerbys review of Mr Ps complaint and its further submissions
In October 2021 Westerby declined to change its position on Mr Ps complaint and set out 
the details of its review. They also made further, more general, submissions. For ease of 
reference Ive grouped the key points Westerby made under appropriate headings. In 
summary, Westerby said:
Information available on the Financial Services Register in 2013In the published decision the Ombudsman relied heavily on communications with the 
FCA about the Financial Services Register (the Register) and what information was 
available on the Register in 2013 but had failed to disclose the details of their 
communications with the FCA about this.
The Ombudsman relied on the understanding of an unnamed member of staff at the 
FCA, regarding the historical content of a Register which is known to have been 
inaccurate. He relied on speculation, rather than fact; this understanding of what was 
on the Register in 2013 is not proof of what was on the Register at the relevant time.
It is accepted that a permissions page existed on the Register at the relevant times, 
however it is not accepted that this contained any useful information relating to 
Abana  the Register simply did not record Abanas permissions.
The FCA confirmed to Westerby, through correspondence in August and September 
2021, that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad permissions held 
under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance mediation or 
reinsurance mediation and there was no requirement under the IMD to display more 
detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the Register would have 
been considered confidential information under section 348 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act (FSMA) which prohibits disclosure of this information. So, had 
Westerby contacted the FCA in 2013 it would not have been able to provide any 
further information; it would have been unlawful for them to do so.
The Written Agreement/Terms of Business between Westerby and Abana
Westerby was permitted by COBS 2.4.6R and 2.4.8G to rely on written information 
from other authorised parties unless it was (or ought reasonably to have been) aware 
that it was inaccurate.
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Written Agreement/Terms of 
Business, signed by Abana, that it had the necessary permissions. Taken with the 
meetings between Westerby and Abana, there were no reasonable grounds to 
question the accuracy of the information provided by Abana regarding its 
permissions.
The Terms of Business was established after a meeting where Westerby had already 
received verbal assurance that the firm (Abana) held the necessary permissions to 
give pension advice. It was sufficient to confirm the previous verbal assurances with 
a written statement in the Terms of Business; it is beyond doubt that such a 
statement could be relied upon in a court of law.
The Adams v Options court cases and COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule), and the 
Principles for Businesses
The judge in Adams v Options confirmed that a SIPP providers duties must be read 
in the context of the contract  although there was an advisory relationship between 
Mr P and Abana, he had a separate execution-only contractual arrangement with 
Westerby which was distinct from his contractual relationship with Abana.
In the published decision it is wholly unclear how Abanas contractually defined role 
is said to impact upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It 
was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of 
third-party advisers. The Ombudsman made no attempt whatsoever to identify any 
factor specific to Westerby which was said to justify the duty imposed under COBS 2.1.1R.
Whilst the judge in Adams v Options didnt comment on the application of the 
Principles to SIPP providers, COBS 2.1.1R (which was central to Adams) is reflected 
in Principle 6; it follows that the interpretation of COBS 2.1.1R must inform the 
interpretation of this Principle.
If COBS 2.1.1R is to be read in the context of the contract, it follows that other 
regulatory duties (including those that flow from the Principles) must be read in the 
same way.
Abanas responsibilities and apportionment between Westerby and Abana
The Ombudsman failed to assess apportionment between Westerby and Abana. The 
Ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer in the 
published decision for the full extent of his financial losses on the basis that, amongst 
other things, Westerby had routes (indemnity and/or assignment of consumers rights 
of action against Abana) to recover any contribution from Abana; but Abana has 
ceased trading and has closed.
Abana was responsible for the losses flowing from the advice given by their 
representatives. Abana offered redress to the clients introduced by them; it remains 
responsible for this redress. It would be unfair and unreasonable for this 
responsibility effectively to be devolved to Westerby.
Although sympathetic to Mr Ps situation, its not fair or reasonable for Westerby to 
compensate Mr P for the losses flowing from poor advice by Abana.
s.27/s.20 FSMA
Abana was an authorised person under s.31 FSMA under its EEA passport. Its 
clearly the intention of FSMA to make authorised parties responsible for ensuring 
they act within their own permissions, and that another authorised party is not to be 
held liable for their failure to do so. s.20 FSMA states that, while an authorised 
person carrying out a regulated activity outside of their permissions is in 
contravention of a requirement imposed by FSMA, the contravention does not make 
agreements unenforceable, or give rise to a right of action for breach of statutory 
duty. Whereas, under s.27 FSMA agreements made by authorised persons as a 
result of a regulated activity carried out by an unauthorised party can be made 
unenforceable; the risks of dealing with unauthorised parties are thrown onto the 
authorised party.
Mitigation of losses
All of Abanas clients had two opportunities to mitigate losses  in November 2014 
and December 2015.
Even if Westerby had not referred to Abana in its November 2014 letter its likely 
Mr P would have approached Mr F or one of his other associates at Abana.
Irrespective of any advice from Abana to retain the funds, it was ultimately Mr Ps 
decision as to whether to follow that advice  Mr P elected to retain funds that had 
been highlighted as high-risk and under enforcement actions, and the general 
principle that he should take responsibility for his decisions ought to be applied.Mr P didnt return the redemption form sent to him in early 2016  as a result he lost 
his opportunity to recover funds. At the very least hes responsible for approximately 
half of his losses.
Our Investigators view
Our Investigator concluded in March 2022 that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She said, 
in summary:
SIPP operators should have systems and controls to protect consumers from the risk 
of fraud or unauthorised investment advice and to identify (and prevent) instances of 
consumer detriment.
Westerby as the SIPP operator had to think very carefully about the quality of the 
business they were accepting from Abana, and they should have declined 
applications where there was a risk of consumer detriment. Declining an application 
would not have amounted to providing advice.
To meet its regulatory obligations Westerby should have undertaken sufficient due 
diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to give advice on, 
and make arrangements in relation to, personal pensions in the UK before accepting 
Mr Ps business from it.
The regulated activities undertaken by Abana in this case did not fall under IMD 
passporting and so required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK.
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana did not in fact have the top-up 
permissions from the FCA it required to be giving advice on and arranging personal 
pensions in the UK, and should not, therefore, have accepted Mr Ps application from 
it.
From the evidence available its reasonable to conclude that the format of the 
Financial Services Register, in or around the time Mr Ps SIPP application was 
submitted to Westerby in 2013, included pages which provided information in relation 
to both a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions.
She did not accept Westerbys submission that information about a firms 
permissions was simply not available for an online user in 2013. But, if there was no 
information available or accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the 
permissions position of Abana, then Westerby ought to have declined to accept any 
applications from Abana until such a time as it could, verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions.
She did not accept that Westerby could rely on what Abana told it  the Written 
Agreement did not amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK. Westerby 
should have done more to independently verify that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions.
Our Investigator concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Ps SIPP 
application from Abana, it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr P 
for his financial loss. She set out how she thought this loss should be assessed.
In a supplementary view in May 2022, our Investigator added that she didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Mr P to have done anything differently in response to the investments updates Westerby sent to him from November 2014 onwards. She concluded that even if he 
had responded differently, she didnt think he would have been able to successfully redeem 
his funds.
Westerbys response to the Investigators view
Westerby didnt accept what the Investigator said. Ive summarised the key points of their 
response below. However, I confirm that I have carefully considered their submissions, both 
general and specific to Mr Ps complaint, in their entirety. Westerby said:
The Investigator re-wrote Mr Ps complaint and re-fashioned a brand new complaint 
for Mr P. Mr Ps own complaint was about the lack of information being provided to 
him by Westerby, not a complaint that Westerby didnt carry out sufficient due 
diligence on Abana.
The Investigator held Westerby liable for Abana, an authorised party, acting outside 
of their permissions but s.20 and s.27 FSMA demonstrate that Parliaments intention 
was that an authorised party should not be held liable for losses flowing from another 
authorised partys breach of their own requirements.
Westerby acted on an execution-only basis in relation to the creation of the SIPP. It 
was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations and/or legal obligations as set out 
in s.20 FSMA to Mr P to investigate the permissions of third-party advisers. It was 
also not for Westerby to have offered any advice to Mr P.
Westerby has provided the Financial Ombudsman with an experts report, amongst 
other things, to support its position that information about Abanas permissions was 
simply not available in 2013. Yet the Financial Ombudsman has decided that the 
information was available on the Register in 2013, citing unsubstantiated 
communications with the FCA. The Financial Ombudsman has not provided any of 
the disclosure requested in relation to its communications with the FCA. Westerby 
requests for the disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA with whom the 
FOS communicated with about the Register and the contents of it at the relevant 
time; records of those communications; file notes or attendance notes; details of the 
FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was dealing with the 
Register in 2013 and had knowledge of it; and what the FCA contacts understanding 
of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Not to provide this would be procedurally 
unfair.
It is not accepted that the FCA would have been able to provide any further 
information to Westerby than what was on the Register  if an approach had been 
made to the FCA, it would not have confirmed the position. This information was not 
a matter of public record, as the Investigator suggests.
The FCAs helpdesk told Westerby that the FCA couldnt give any information that 
wasnt on the public register and confirmed that such information should be 
confirmed with the firm in question. Westerby confirmed Abanas permissions with 
the firm  who confirmed orally and in writing that they had the requisite permissions.
It was reasonable for Westerby to rely on what it was told by Abana about the 
permissions that it held, in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R(2) and COBS 2.4.8G. 
More could not have been done to verify Abanas top-up permissions.
The points raised about the generic nature of the Written Agreement/Terms of 
Business between Westerby and Abana, and the ambiguity of some of the wording are erroneous and irrelevant, and dont change the undertaking Abana made. It 
disagrees that the Written Agreement was generic in nature. Its drafted in line with 
the regulators due diligence expectations and is fit for the purpose intended.
Westerby undertook rigorous due diligence and rejected numerous investment 
propositions and advisers. Abanas representatives demonstrated to Westerby that 
they had good technical knowledge. It was reasonable to rely on the information 
provided by Abana in writing, and at meetings with them and the due diligence 
performed. At no time did they present any reason to doubt their credibility.
Westerby undertook due diligence in accordance with the FCAs regulatory 
publications. Before accepting applications Westerby:
ochecked the FCA Register and were able to confirm that the firm was 
authorised and regulated by both the FCA (under reference 597069) and the 
Portuguese regulator (Abana was authorised and regulated in Portugal by the 
Instituto de Seguros de Portugal under reference 412378472)
ochecked the Registers permission page to discover that it was blank (even 
the IMD permission section had been negligently left blank  Westerby also 
printed and retained copies of the continuing failure of the FCA to complete 
this section)
ochecked the Portuguese register which explained that Abana were authorised 
to advise on both vida (life) and no vida (non-life), the latter Westerby 
understood meant investments and pensions, they being non-life products
oconfirmed with the firm their position about authorisation, permissions and 
standards
oregularly checked the Register to confirm continuing authorisation and check 
for warning notices
omaintained checks on the investment funds
oconducted regular reviews of media publications and the regulator in 
Mauritius
oconfirmed Abana used other SIPP operators products
ochecked application forms, that the applicants were genuine and that there 
was no money laundering involved
ochecked Companies House records and passports to verify the Directors of 
Abana, their addresses and signatures
osatisfied itself that the investments were an HMRC permitted pension scheme 
asset
osatisfied itself that there was no indication the investments were fraudulent, a 
scam, or linked to pension liberation
oestablished that the funds could be easily valued and were realizable within 
30 days.The Portuguese regulator subsequently confirmed to the independent compliance 
consultancy firm that Abana were authorised to advise on pension products. If 
Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator there is no reason to think they 
would have been told differently. There were no further checks that Westerby could 
have done that would have changed the outcome.
The FCA has not to date raised any wrongdoing on Westerbys part  its illogical that 
the Financial Ombudsman finds differently. The Financial Ombudsman should set out 
what further steps Westerby ought to have taken which would have provided 
Westerby with the information that Abana did not have the required permissions.
Westerbys contract was with Abana and not Mr P  if Westerby had refused his 
application, Westerby would not have been in a position to contact Mr P to explain 
why his application had been rejected.
If Westerby had rejected the application, Abana would simply have re-applied on 
behalf of Mr P to another SIPP operator, who would have accepted the application 
and Mr P would be in the same position as he is in now.
In a letter dated 23 April 2014 to Westerby, Mr P confirmed that he was aware of the 
risks involved in his chosen investments. Nothing Westerby could have done would 
have prevented Mr P in making the investments. Mr P was clearly trusting of Abana 
and the letter shows that he was distrustful of Westerby and would not have heeded 
any information provided to him from Westerby without reverting firstly to Abana.
It is not fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr P for the full extent of the 
financial losses he has suffered. Abana accept that they are liable for the losses 
suffered as a result of the advice. Notwithstanding Westerbys position that it should 
not be liable for any compensation to Mr P, a discount for the admission of liability 
from Abana or the redress offered by Abana should be factored in. Mr P should not 
be compensated for his losses twice.
Abana should compensate Mr P for the full extent of his losses. Abanas actions were 
more serious than any alleged failures by Westerby as not only did Abana knowingly 
conduct advice on SIPPs outside of their permissions, but also warranted to 
Westerby that they had the necessary permissions to advise on SIPPs. They played 
the more significant, if not the only role, in causing the losses Mr P now claims.
It is not understood why complaints against Westerby have been determined before 
those against Abana. The complaint against Abana should be decided first or at least 
at the same time as this complaint against Westerby. Abana should not escape any 
liability for their actions. Appropriate liability should be attributed to them for their 
involvement in the losses suffered by the individual complainants.
Westerbys view is that Mr P ought to take responsibility for his own investment 
decisions. The Financial Ombudsman has failed to consider and/or take any account 
at all of Mr Ps duty and failure to mitigate his losses.
Mr P did not request redemption until 2016. Had Mr P or his adviser requested and 
returned the redemption form promptly after Westerbys 2014 letter, before the funds 
were suspended, it is highly likely that Mr P would have been able to recover 100% 
of his funds.
If Mr P had acted promptly following Westerbys letter in December 2015 to mitigate 
his losses and request a redemption, this would likely have resulted in a significant redemption of his funds, at least 50%. This cannot be disputed as this is what 
happened in relation to another investor.
Whether or not there was a reference in Westerbys letter in November 2014 to Mr P 
to seeking advice from Abana is irrelevant and had no bearing on the outcome as 
Mr P would have reverted to his existing adviser, regardless. Westerby is not 
responsible for the (poor) advice from Abana and/or their representatives, nor 
Abanas actions to encourage the clients to stay in the funds.
Westerby also clarified the situation with the funds Mr Ps money was invested in. They 
explained that Abana originally put him into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly, but later 
Mr F made arrangements (without Westerbys authority) for the funds to be placed into the 
EPS Managed Fund  a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) which acted as a fund of funds, 
comprised of Kijani, SAMAIF and the TCA Global fund. When EPS started trading again, 
they split the funds into two portfolios  Managed Portfolio S containing Kijani, and Managed 
Portfolio L containing SAMAIF and TCA Global (S standing for Suspended, and L for 
Liquid). SAMAIF was included in Portfolio L as it was expected to begin trading. 
Redemptions from this fund were made by the managers selling TCA Global  hence they 
were able to make redemptions initially, but TCA Global was ultimately depleted. Westerby 
said TCA Global was used to subsidise the early redemption requests in the expectation 
that SAMAIF would begin trading again. They said this was a decision Westerby had no 
control over.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA.
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
I acknowledge that Mr P originally complained about Abana in May 2017, and that complaint 
was prompted by the fact that despite his acceptance of Abanas offer of redress Mr P 
received no money. But Abana ultimately went out of business and wasnt in a position to 
satisfy any award that we might have made against it. So, that complaint was closed in July 
2021, when Mr P withdrew it.
Mr Ps complaint about Westerby, made in July 2018, was broad ranging. He wasnt sure 
exactly what Westerbys regulatory obligations were, but: he felt something had gone wrong 
which had caused him to suffer the loss of his pension (his lifeline to old age); told us he 
felt Westerby had just fobbed him off without giving him any information about where his 
pension had gone; and asked us to look into things.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr P fairly, in accordance with his 
best interests. And what I think is fair and reasonable in the light of that. So, I am going to 
focus on what I think is key  which, for the reasons Ill explain, I consider to be the checks Westerby carried out on Abana before accepting business from it.
As a preliminary point I should also say the purpose of this decision is to set out my findings 
on what is fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to 
offer a point-by-point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint. 
And so, whilst I have considered all the submissions made by both parties, I have focussed 
here on the points I believe to be key to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I have first set out what I consider the relevant considerations are in this case. To confirm, 
when doing this, I have considered all the submissions Westerby has made  including 
those made on the Adams v Options court cases.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Ps case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP, and HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But to be 
clear, I do not say this means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I 
have taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ps case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in the High Court judgement HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
There are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ps complaint. The breaches alleged by Mr Adams were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight 
noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP 
agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP.
The facts of this case are also different, and I need to construe the duties Westerby owed to 
Mr P under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Ps case.
To confirm, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Ps case, including Westerbys role in the 
transaction.
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that Westerby was under any obligation to 
advise Mr P on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which did not have 
the required permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same thing as advising Mr P on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP.
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ps case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority  FSA) has issued a number 
of publications which remind SIPP operators of their obligations, and which set out how they 
might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks 
to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme having checks which may include, but are not 
limited to:oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 Thematic Review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least.
I do not think the fact the Dear CEO letter post-dates the events that took place in relation 
to Mr Ps complaint, mean that the examples of good practice it provides were not good 
practice at the time of the relevant events. The Principles that underpin that letter and the 
examples existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
As part of its submissions Westerby has made the point that Abana was an authorised 
person under s.31 FSMA under its EEA passport and that s.20 FSMA explicitly shields 
authorised parties (such as Westerby) from the risks of accepting business from authorised 
parties acting outside of their permissions. Westerby highlights that this provision is in 
contrast to s.27 which shifts the risks of accepting business from unauthorised parties onto 
the authorised party. Westerby says, therefore, its clearly the intention of FSMA to make 
authorised parties responsible for ensuring they act within their own permissions, and that 
another authorised party is not to be held liable for their failure to do so. Westerby contend 
that the Ombudsmans findings in the published decision contradict the legislation. Westerby 
has also previously submitted that parts of the regulatory publications referred to appear to 
directly contradict the intention of the legislation.
I have carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s.20 and s.27 of 
FSMA. But to be clear, with regards to the contents of s.20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if there is something that gives rise to a right to take 
legal action. And Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Ps SIPP application and 
agreement with Westerby is void or unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out 
above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications listed above are relevant 
considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ps SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations to act with due 
skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing.
So, taking account of the factual context of this case it is my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R) it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on, and make arrangements in relation to, personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Ps business from it.
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. 
And I accept that it did undertake some checks. However, the question I need to consider in 
this complaint is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory 
obligations, identified that Abana did not in fact have the top-up permissions from the FCA 
it required to be giving advice on and arranging personal pensions in the UK, and whether 
Westerby should therefore not have accepted Mr Ps application from it.
The regulatory position
Abana is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF).
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. Insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out 
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding 
such contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, 
in particular in the event of a claim.
4. Reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business it is stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection 
businessfrom January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Ps SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2):
 is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to 
provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It did not 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Ps application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number:
I note this shows Article 82 investments are not covered by the IMD.
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Ps application for 
the SIPP (October 2013) explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK 
which are outside the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-
up permission under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top-
up permissions from the FCA to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD 
passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at October 2013):
If a person established in the EEA:
(1) does not have an EEA right;
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G to 
SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 4A 
permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate UK 
regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and 
www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations/newfirm/default.aspx for the 
PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market 
Directives, or where the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive 
but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also 
qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other 
activities, the Part 4A permission is referred to in the Handbook as a top-up 
permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation was defined in October 
2013 as:
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance intermediary, 
registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by its 
Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market Directive or the 
auction regulation.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which I set out above) was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights.
In this case the regulated activities in question did not fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation I have referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore 
have known - or have checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal that was EEA-authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements 
in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had to be granted by 
the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions 
from FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking.
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it could not 
and should not reasonably have concluded that Abana did not have the required top-up 
permissions. I have carefully considered all Westerbys submissions on this point.
The Register
I am satisfied that in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
therefore consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register 
entry for Abana in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I think it fair and reasonable to say 
that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry should have 
included a review of all the relevant information available.
I have carefully considered the format of the Register in or around 2013 when Mr Ps 
application was submitted by Abana. The third-party report on the Register provided by 
Westerby during the investigation of the complaint which was the subject of the published 
decision is helpful on the question of the format of the Register at the time of Mr Ps SIPP 
application. The report includes the following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana 
(dated 24 July 2013):Each of the red titles at the top of the entry (i.e. Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, etc) is a hyperlink to another page of the entry on the Register. So, this 
screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would have included both 
Permission and Passports pages (amongst other pages). It is therefore reasonable to 
conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register in or around the time 
Mr Ps SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013 included pages which provided 
information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions. 
And I note Westerby accepts Abanas entry would have included a permission page at the 
relevant time.
Westerbys position, in short, is that the permission page was blank, and the Register entry 
could not therefore be used to check a firms permissions.
The report provided by Westerby on the complaint which was the subject of the published 
decision, helpfully, provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms which 
were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Ps SIPP application or earlier. The below 
example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an incoming 
EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed no matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for EEA 
firms around the time of Mr Ps application did include a page with information on a firms 
permissions, even if all it recorded is that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions 
from the FCA). I note Westerby accepts that the entry for Abana likely showed no matches 
found in the permission page of the Register entry at the relevant time.
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows no matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail.
All of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Ps application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain a page labelled Permission 
and this page is where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm did not have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission page on 
their Register entry would state no matches found (as there were no permissions to 
display).
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response to our query, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do 
appear on the Register under the Permission page, and that the FCA understands the 
same information was available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response 
to our question supports what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the 
evidence available in this case.
I note Westerby has said more information should be provided about this. Westerby has 
been provided with the FCAs response to our question and has had ample opportunity (on 
this complaint and other similar complaints under our consideration) to provide further 
information, expert reports and submissions on the format of the Register at the relevant 
time. I am therefore satisfied I can fairly determine this complaint now and Westerby does 
not need to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question supports 
what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats available 
in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same without the FCAs 
response to our question.
To summarise my conclusions so far, I am satisfied:
That in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business 
from it. And it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality 
of Abanas Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2013 did include a Permission page and it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register at the time of Mr Ps application would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked.
If Westerby did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, it appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I do not have a record of the 
Permission page for Abana at the relevant time. So, we have no evidence of what specific 
information was available on this page for Abana at the relevant time. However, in light of 
the evidence Ive set out above, I am satisfied that there would have been a permission page 
available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously failed to contain any 
information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (i.e. it had been left 
entirely blank), Westerby ought to have taken further steps to ascertain what the correct 
position was.
To be clear, I do not accept that information about a firms permissions was simply not 
available for an online user in 2013.
Westerby has, in previous submissions, referred to reports from the Complaints 
Commissioner both of which highlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. In its 
latest submissions it says the Register is known to have historically had significant errors, 
and the FCA itself recognises that there can be errors on the Register  it refers to a 
disclaimer shown on the Register which says the FCA provided no warranty as to its 
accuracy. I have considered the submissions Westerby has made on this point.
Whilst I appreciate there have been criticisms of the Register, and it may on occasion have 
contained errors, I am satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Abana needed 
permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for personal pensions in 
the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that 
Abana held the required permissions. And, for the reasons I have set out above, I am 
satisfied that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time would have included a page 
with information on its permissions. And, if this page had not set out any information (it had 
erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, should 
not have accepted Mr Ps application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to 
clarify the correct position on the firms permissions.
On this point Westerby says that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. It says the published decision concedes that information which was not available on the Register would not have 
been provided to Westerby.
I accept the FCA will not (and would not) confirm details about a firm that are not available 
on the public register. However, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that top-up 
permissions are something which are recorded on the FCAs public register, and that this 
was also the case in 2013 when Westerby accepted Mr Ps application from Abana. So, 
although we do not have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas Permission page 
in 2013, if it had erroneously been left blank, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude the 
FCA would have been able to confirm the position that Abana did not  in fact  have the 
required permissions, as this was information that ought to have been publicly available, on 
the Register. So, I am not persuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point, and I am 
satisfied contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to it to verify Abanas 
permissions before accepting business from it.
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm Abanas 
permissions because the Register did not contain the relevant details, I do not think the 
restriction it refers to on what the FCA could confirm would have prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Abana did not have any top-up permissions. That was a matter of 
public record. So, the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby.
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas entry on the Register I still do not think 
it is fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Ps application from Abana 
in those circumstances. Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. If there was no information available 
or accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of 
Abana, then Westerby ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas 
permissions, or it ought to have declined to accept any applications from Abana until such a 
time as it could verify the correct position on Abanas permissions.
Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions at 
all  a position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think it is fair and 
reasonable to say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed 
with accepting business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it was not 
reasonable, and not in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with 
accepting business from Abana if the position was not clear.
So, to summarise:
I am satisfied it was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept 
business from Abana if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what 
permissions Abana held.
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top-up permissions. And, as I am satisfied this would have been a 
matter of public record, I am satisfied the FCA would have been able to confirm 
whether or not Abana held any permissions.
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana.
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it?
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required.
Westerby has referred to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the 
FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual information 
provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process (TR/16/1, Para 
5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person.
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a 
professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that 
would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information.
In the Agreement Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce SIPPs 
business. Ive noted what Westerbys said in response to the Investigators view about the 
Agreement. And Ive reviewed the contents of the Terms of Business Agreement of a 
different SIPP that Westerby has provided to us. However, I agree with the Investigator that 
the Agreement appears to be a generic document and not specific to Abana. It does not 
refer to, nor require either party to confirm or warrant the accuracy of information supplied 
during a prior due diligence process.
The Agreement provides as follows:
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, 
authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities under this 
contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws.
In my view, this does not amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on. The activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes is 
not mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which is an 
ambiguous term. And the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and does 
not refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it has 
top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement I am not satisfied on the evidence 
provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana required to be 
arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. I am also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top-up 
permissions.In any event, it is my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent checks 
on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have been privy 
to information which did not reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions. So, 
in failing to take this step, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby did not 
do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the permissions it required.
So, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I do not think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the 
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on it generally.
I note Westerby has referred to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of 
the FCA Handbook, and I have considered this question with those details in mind. 
Westerbys mentioned a meeting or meetings with Abana where Westerby received verbal 
assurance that Abana held the necessary permissions to give pension advice. But Ive seen 
no written record of that meeting or meetings. And, in my opinion, if such a meeting was the 
way Westerby was intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with its 
regulatory obligations, (in particular Principle 2  to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence, and Principle 3  to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to ensure that it 
was able to evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken 
to confirm Abanas permissions.
Further, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the meeting or meetings Westerby 
had with Abana provide something in writing on which it may have been reasonable for 
Westerby to rely. The corollary of this is that I dont therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies 
to the meeting/s.
Overall, I am not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for 
Westerby to rely on the meetings and Agreement, for much the same reasons as I have 
given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I do not think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. It has 
told us it checked the Register. It has also told us its procedure was to check the Register 
every time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time adviser fees are 
paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the 
FSAs 2009 Thematic Review report. That is a view I share.
So, Westerby should not have  and did not  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as 
mentioned above, for all the reasons I have given, I think Westerbys check of the Register 
ought to have led to the conclusion that Abana did not have the required top-up permissions 
(i.e. if the information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the alternative, that the Register did not record the information on Abanas Permission page in 
order for Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the 
permission page had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which did not 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the 
Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it did not meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
Anomalous features
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr P was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
from more conventional pension schemes into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the 
money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius and/or the Cayman 
Islands. The investments involved were unusual, and specialised. And the chances of them 
being suitable investments for a significant portion of a retail investors pension were very 
small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from Mr 
P as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. And it should have been aware that 
the role of the adviser was likely to be a very important one in the circumstances  
emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to 
independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on personal 
pensions in the UK.
I do not expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr P 
 and I accept it could not do that. But, in order to meet the obligations, set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr P fairly and act in his best interests.
In any event, regardless of the points I have made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, I am of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check.
In conclusion
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana did not have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions.
In either event, it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business I 
have outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Ps 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK.It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised across its submissions are factors which mitigate its decision to accept 
Mr Ps application from Abana.
I am therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
should not have accepted Mr Ps SIPP application from Abana.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr P compensation in the circumstances?
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application?
I am satisfied that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Ps application from Abana, and if 
Mr P had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt been accepted, Mr P 
would not have continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana (as he 
would then have been aware it didnt have the necessary permissions to provide such advice 
or, alternatively, that Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary permissions to provide such advice).
I appreciate that Westerby says its contract was with Abana and not Mr P and that if Mr Ps 
application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had reason to, contact Mr P. 
But Mr P went through a process with Abana that culminated in him completing paperwork to 
set up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectation that monies from existing pension 
plans would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and 
effort of doing this, I think its most likely that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then established, 
and if his pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr P would have 
wanted to find out why from Abana and Westerby.
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr P 
for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have 
confirmed to Mr P the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him.
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained 
to Mr P that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the necessary top-
up permissions it needed to provide the advice or, alternatively, as Westerby hadnt been 
able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide 
the advice. And that Mr P wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice 
provided by Abana.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Mr P taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, I have seen no evidence to show Mr P would have proceeded with his 
application had he known his advisers were not, in his words, FCA compliant. I have also 
not seen any evidence to show Mr P was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot be said 
he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. I recognise that Mr P was keen to retire 
ASAP and to receive his pension commencement lump sum, but I think his situation was 
very different to that of Mr Adams. Mr P was only eager to complete the transaction as he believed, on the strength of Abanas advice, he was securing the best pension for himself. In 
short, had Mr P been informed that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt 
have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide the advice or, alternatively, as 
Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up 
permissions to provide the advice, I think it more likely than not Mr P wouldnt have 
proceeded to transfer his monies into a Westerby SIPP.
To be clear, I dont think the existence of the letter from April 2014 which appears to be from 
Mr P to Westerby urging it to proceed with his instructions makes a difference to my findings 
here. In April 2014 Mr P had no reason not to trust his advisers advice and push for the 
instructions hed made on the back of that advice to be carried out. If, as Ive found they 
should have done, Westerby had rejected his application in 2013, Mr P would not have 
reached the position of writing such a letter. And I dont think the content of that letter means 
hed more likely than not have proceeded if Westerby had refused to accept his application.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Ps application from Abana, the transaction would not still have gone 
ahead. I know that Westerby thinks Mr P would have gone ahead using another SIPP 
provider who would have accepted the application and Mr P would be in the same position 
as he is in now. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mr P for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would 
have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Ps application from Abana.
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Ps application from Abana, that process would still have needed Mr P to be willing to 
continue to do business with Abana after Westerby had rejected his application for another 
application to proceed. And, as Ive mentioned above, Im not satisfied that Mr P would have 
continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such circumstances.
In any event, the point should be made that Mr P should not have had the option of 
proceeding with an application with Westerby as, for all the reasons I have set out, I think the 
only fair and reasonable course of action open to Westerby in the circumstances was to 
refuse to accept the application. And I do not think any other SIPP operator, acting fairly and 
reasonably, should have accepted the application from Abana either.
The involvement of Abana
In this decision I am considering Mr Ps complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr P to switch to a SIPP and make unsuitable 
investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when considering whether to 
accept Mr Ps application for a SIPP.
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby was not required to ensure Abana complied with that 
responsibility. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles 
and this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply with these obligations 
in this case.
I am satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby would not have done any 
SIPP business with Abana in the first place.I am also satisfied that if Mr P had been told Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or, alternatively, if hed been told Westerby hadnt been able to 
independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the 
advice, then he would not have continued to accept or act on advice from that business. 
And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, it is my view that it is fair 
and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to identify that Abana did not 
have the required top-up permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on 
personal pensions in the UK.
The DISP rules set out that when an Ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr P fairly.
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr P 
compensation for the loss he has suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. I have however 
carefully considered if there is any reason why it would not be fair to ask Westerby to 
compensate Mr P for his loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable 
in full or in part. And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the 
circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr P to the full extent of the financial losses he 
has suffered due to Westerbys failings.
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr P to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ps loss. However, it is also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr P would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could have been avoided.
I think in the circumstances it would be fair for Westerby to have the option to take an 
assignment of any rights of action Mr P has against Abana before compensation is paid. 
Redress could in turn be made contingent upon Mr Ps acceptance of this term of settlement. 
It will remain open to Westerby to seek compensation from Abana if it thinks there are 
grounds for it to recover some or all of the losses it is being held responsible for. Westerbys 
terms of business with Abana gives it scope to pursue this route, if it wishes.
Westerby might deem any indemnity from Abana and/or assignment of any action against 
Abana from Mr P to be effectively worthless. I accept that may be true. However, the key 
point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mr P would not have suffered the loss he has 
suffered. So, the financial position of Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to 
rely on an indemnity from Abana and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against 
that firm from Mr P might be worthless, does not lead me to change my overall view on this 
point.
I want to make clear that I have carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. It is my view that it is appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby 
to compensate Mr P to the full extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to 
Westerbys failings and notwithstanding any failings by Abana.
Mr P taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mr P in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mr Ps actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings.
Mr P took advice from a regulated adviser (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr P) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr P for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr P should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made.
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby says it wrote to Mr P to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise around half of his investment value. It says Mr P had 
a responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be 
responsible for at least half the losses he has suffered.
I have carefully considered this point but do not think it is fair for any reduction to be made to 
fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr P to mitigate his loss.
I do not think it fair to say Mr P should have made a redemption request when Westerby 
wrote to him in November 2014. That letter required Mr P to seek advice, and urged him to 
contact his financial adviser, Abana. It seems Mr P did this, and was advised to keep the 
investments. In these circumstances, I am of the view that it is not fair to say Mr P ought to 
have acted differently. I am also of the view that Westerby did not act in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations in sending this letter. On the complaints about introductions from 
Abana, Westerby says its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it 
received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisers renumeration was to be 
paid. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr P in November 2014, it would have had many 
opportunities to discover that Abana did not have the top-up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK.
For Westerby to have suggested that Mr P seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds he had invested in had come to light, is a further failing of its regulatory obligations and 
the requirement to treat Mr P fairly. In fact, it should have alerted Mr P to the fact that Abana 
did not have the required permissions and have suggested he seek independent advice from 
a regulated adviser as a matter of urgency.
Westerby says Mr P never requested a redemption of his investments but that had he done 
so hed have been able to redeem approximately half of his funds. But in my view, it is 
unlikely a redemption request would have been successful.
In relation to the Kijani fund, liquidators were appointed on 19 June 2015. Westerbys June 
2015 letter notes that some investors had, at that time, made redemption requests over 90 
days ago but not received any money. And I note that in the complaint which was the subject 
of the published decision Westerby summarised the situation with the Kijani fund in October 
2015 as suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will 
come back.
So, I think there is insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in relation to 
the Kijani fund after issues with the fund were first highlighted in late 2014 would have been 
successful.I further note the 24 April 2016 update from the SAMAIF suggests work to begin trading is 
still ongoing. In May 2016 Westerby informed Mr P that the SAMAIF fund was now part of 
the "suspended" Managed Portfolio S, and in June 2016 Westerby said:
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy 
of their latest update is enclosed.
Which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended at this time. So, I have also not seen sufficient 
evidence to show a redemption request made in relation to the SAMAIF would have been 
successful either  it seems the SAMAIF was suspended for a considerable period of time, 
and it is not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to be consistent with what 
was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the amount paid to the SIPP in 
that case likely came from another investment rather than the Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as 
both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period in that case.
I have not seen sufficient evidence to show a redemption request would have been 
successful even if it had been made in or after December 2015. And, taking into account the 
combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or 
fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to 
Mr P.
fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mr Ps loss should lie with the advising firm  Abana. I 
have carefully considered what Westerby has said about the review carried out by the 
independent third-party compliance consultancy firm who found that Mr P was given 
unsuitable advice by Abana. I note that following the third-party compliance review Abana 
agreed to pay Mr P redress for the unsuitable advice he was given. However, as I 
understand it, Abana has paid no redress to Mr P.
It is possible that Mr P may have a valid complaint against Abana. As set out above, I can 
see that it may be arguable that Abana, in advising Mr P to purchase the SIPP, could be 
held responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to Mr Ps loss. However, the 
complaint against Westerby is the complaint I am considering here.
For the reasons I set out earlier in this decision I consider that Westerby has failed to comply 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. It is therefore my view that in 
the circumstances, it is fair and reasonable to ask Westerby to compensate Mr P for the full 
measure of his losses  as it could have put a stop to things if it had acted fairly and 
reasonably by rejecting the application.
I therefore consider that in the circumstances, it is fair and reasonable to direct Westerby to 
compensate Mr P to the full extent of his losses.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Ps SIPP 
application from Abana.
Westerby should:
1. Calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position of the monies that were invested with it to the position those monies would have been in had the 
transfer to Westerby not been made.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ps share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.
4. Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
5. Pay Mr P £750 to compensate him for the substantial distress, upset and worry the 
loss of his pension income has caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, as mentioned, it should have the option of payment of 
this redress being contingent upon Mr P assigning any claim he may have against Abana, to 
Westerby  but only in so far as Mr P is compensated here. The terms of the assignment 
should require Westerby to account to Mr P for any amount it subsequently recovers against 
Abana that exceeds the loss paid to Mr P.
I have explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation set out at 1-4 above in 
further detail below:
1. Calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position of the monies that 
were invested with it to the position those monies would have been in had the 
transfer to Westerby not been made.
I cant be certain of what funds, and in what proportions, those monies would have been 
invested in if they hadnt been transferred into the Westerby SIPP. Its possible they might 
have been retained in Mr Ps existing policies, but I think its also possible they might still 
have been transferred elsewhere so as to enable Mr P to access tax-free cash and with the 
residual benefits being invested in other holdings. Given the lack of certainty on this point, 
and having carefully considered this issue, for the purposes of quantifying redress in this 
case I think the fair and reasonable approach is to assume that the monies in question would 
have experienced a return from the date they were transferred into the Westerby SIPP and 
up until the date of this decision equivalent to that enjoyed by the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income 
total return index). Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved over the period in question.
The calculation should take account of the value of any cash held in the SIPP currently, and 
any contributions or withdrawals made by Mr P. Any existing value of the investments should 
be covered by the next step.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
The total sum calculated in 1. minus the sum arrived at in 2. is the loss to Mr Ps pension.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be 
redeemed.
The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2014. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP.To do this Westerby should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
the investments and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment their actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of calculation. To be clear, this would include their being 
given a nil value for the purposes of calculating the actual transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP in 
(2).
Westerby may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr P may receive from the investments and 
any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
4. Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
Compensation shouldnt be paid into Mr Ps SIPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protections or allowances.
If Westerbys unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ps SIPP, or if doing so would give rise 
to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that amount direct to him. But had it 
been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance 
would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Westerby should pay Mr P an amount equivalent to five years 
of future fees (based on the most recent years fees), to ensure its unlikely Mr P will have to 
pay further fees for holding the SIPP. Five years should allow enough time for the issues 
with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an 
alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr Ps SIPP.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr P or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr P the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby accepts the recommendation to pay the 
full loss as calculated above, Westerby should have the option of taking an assignment of 
Mr Ps rights in relation to any claim he may have against Abana, and an assignment of the 
right to any future payment Abana may make to Mr P as part of the settlement agreed 
following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby does not accept the recommendation to pay the 
full amount, any assignment of Mr Ps rights should allow him to retain all rights to the 
difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr P for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment and its negotiation and approval by 
Mr P should be met by Westerby.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman