DRN-2596083
The complaint
Mr B complains about eleven loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending 
Stream, (LS), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on 
Mr Bs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all 
actions being taken by Mr B.
 
What happened
Mr B was given 11 instalment loans by LS from June 2011 to January 2013. All the loans 
have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr B is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 6/6/11 30/11/11 £215 6
2. 18/7/11 30/11/11 £125 5
3. 7/9/11 31/1/12 £125 5
4. 13/2/12 31/7/12 £355 6
5. 26/3/12 31/7/12 £75 4
6. 5/4/12 31/7/12 £65 4
7. 5/5/12 31/8/12 £75 4
8. 29/6/12 30/11/12 £115 5
9. 3/8/12 30/9/14 £285 6
10. 4/12/12 10/6/20 £475 6
11. 3/1/13 10/6/20 £95 4
Mr B said that he was in a debt spiral and that the loans werent affordable. He said that LS 
didnt properly undertake affordability checks at each new instance of borrowing or assess 
signs of his over indebtedness.
LSs final response letter said that it asked Mr B for his income and his costs for items like 
rent, utilities, food, transport, and dependent care. It checked what Mr B had told it with 
statistical information. If required, it adjusted Mr Bs expenses upwards and used the new 
figures in its calculations. LS said that it also asked Mr B for his expenses for other loans 
and credit agreements and it checked this information with an independent credit
reference agency. It also adjusted these expenses upwards where required and used the
new figures in its calculations. LS said that the money that Mr B had available after his 
expenses were subtracted from his income was more than the amount needed to pay it each 
month and would still have left him with some money to spend on other things. This meant 
that the loans were affordable.
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 6 to 11 be upheld. He said that Mr Bs overall 
pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short term loans.
LS didnt provide a response to the adjudicators view.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to LS on 14 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
When LS lent to Mr B the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
The ILG contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. LS needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LS 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors included:
  the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the ILG defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Bs complaint.
Although the amounts that Mr B needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period. Id also considered that Mr B sometimes had more than one loan owing to LS and 
had taken into account the total monthly payments for the outstanding loans. 
 
Id thought about whether LSs checks were proportionate for the loans. 
LS had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Mr B. It had asked for his 
income which hed declared as £1,400 and his expenses. On LSs application form and its 
loan/credit data sheet Mr Bs expenses were shown as £1,400. There was a lower expenses 
figure shown in the schedule on LSs final response letter for Loan 1. The schedule on the 
final response letter also showed an inaccurate figure for the loan repayment amount. This 
was also generally the case with Mr Bs other loans. So, Id used the expense figures shown 
in the loan applications and the loan/credit data sheet and the loan repayment amounts 
shown in the loan agreements in this decision. 
Id noted that for Loan 1, Mr B needed to make six monthly repayments and the highest 
monthly repayment was around £107.  
Id also seen a summary of LSs credit checks. These showed that Mr B had nine active 
accounts. But they also showed that Mr B had three delinquent accounts with around £1,900 
outstanding. And the most recent delinquent account occurred only one month before the 
credit checks. I thought the results of LSs credit checks ought to have given it concerns that    
Mr B already had a recent adverse credit record and that his finances might be under 
pressure. 
But as the figures in LSs application form and loan data sheet showed that Mr B had no 
disposable income, I didnt think that Mr B was likely in a position to sustainably repay further 
credit. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for LS to have provided Loan 1 to Mr B.
Mr B applied for Loan 2 whilst Loan 1 was still outstanding, and I could see that hed asked 
for a loan of £200. But LS provided a loan of £125 so it appeared that LS had concerns 
about Mr Bs creditworthiness. Id noted that Mr Bs declared income had reduced to £1,300 
and his declared expenses were £750.
Id also noted that Mr B needed to make a highest total monthly repayment of around £163 
for Loans 1 and 2.  
Id also seen a summary of LSs credit checks before Loan 2. These showed similar 
information to that shown in the credit checks before Loan 1. In view of Mr Bs need for more 
credit whilst still repaying Loan 1, the total amount of his repayments for both Loans 1 and 2, 
and his adverse credit history, I thought LS ought to have sought a more comprehensive 
picture of Mr Bs finances when hed applied for Loan 2. I couldnt see that it had done this.
Wed asked Mr B for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks 
would have shown LS. He didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to say that better 
checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt have lent Loan 2 to Mr B. Mr B missed the contractual date for repayment at the end of August 2011 for both Loans 1 
and 2. Although he made both repayments a day later, I thought this might have given LS 
some concerns when Mr B borrowed Loan 3 six days later whilst Loans 1 and 2 were still 
outstanding. I could see that hed asked for a loan of £160. But LS had provided a loan of 
£125. So, it appeared that LS had concerns about Mr Bs creditworthiness. Id noted that     
Mr Bs declared income was £1,340 and his declared expenses were £750.
Id also noted that Mr B needed to make a highest total monthly repayment of around £187 
for Loans 1, 2, and 3.  
Id also seen a summary of LSs credit checks before Loan 3. These showed that Mr B had 
four delinquent accounts, the most recent being in the previous month and the value of the 
delinquent account balance had increased substantially. In view of Mr Bs worsening 
borrowing history shown in LSs credit checks, Id thought, by the time Mr B asked for      
Loan 3, that LS should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information hed 
provided about his finances. I thought it should have taken steps from that point to 
independently verify Mr Bs true financial position before agreeing future loans. 
As Id said above, wed asked Mr B for copies of his bank statements so we could see what 
better checks would have shown LS. He didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to say 
that better checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt have lent to Mr B from Loan 3 
onwards. 
But looking at the overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing history with LS I thought by Loan 6 the 
lender should have reached the point where it would reasonably have concluded that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, LS should have realised that it 
shouldnt provide further loans. 
Loan 6 was Mr Bs sixth loan request in around ten months - but two of those loans had 
been taken in the previous eight weeks. There had only been a 13 day gap in his borrowing 
since Loan 1. When a consumer had borrowed short term loans with hardly any breaks over 
a number of months, I thought this showed that the loans werent being used in the way that 
they were intended to be used. It should have concerned LS that Mr B wasnt using these 
loans to meet a one off shortfall in his income but rather it was likely he needed to borrow to 
meet an ongoing need.
Loans 4 and 5 were still outstanding when Mr B borrowed Loan 6. The total amount 
borrowed of £495 and the total highest monthly repayment for all three loans were his 
highest yet. So, when Mr B asked for Loan 6, he wasnt making any inroads to the amount 
he owed the lender. 
I could see that as LS didnt stop lending at this point, Mr B went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further nine months. I thought that Mr B lost out because LS continued to provide 
borrowing from Loan 6 onwards because:
  these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
  the length of time that Mr B had been taking out short term loans was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans. 
  The fact that all the loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, or 
without causing Mr B undue difficulty. Id noted that LS said that the money that Mr B had available after his expenses were 
subtracted from his income was more than the amount needed to pay it each month and 
would still have left him with some money to spend on other things. But LS was required to 
establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And LS would know 
from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that there were cases 
where this service considered the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each 
loan. 
When a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most likely 
that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As LS would know, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I thought that was the case here. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or LS my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to say that LS shouldnt have given    
Mr B Loan 1 and Loans 6 to 11, and that it needed to pay Mr B some compensation relating 
to these loans. So, I said that LS should put things right as shown below. 
I also said that if Mr B could provide his bank statements from around the time of Loans 2 to 
5 in his response to this provisional decision, I would reconsider my decision in relation to 
those loans.
In deciding what redress LS should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might have 
happened had it not lent Loan 1 to Mr B and had it stopped lending to Mr B from Loan 6 as I 
was satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he might 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LSs liability in this case for what I was satisfied 
it had done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what LS needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr B paid for Loans 1 and 6 to 11; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the    
dates of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file; and
4. Remove all information about Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Bs credit file. *HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it.
LS hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr B and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the 
complaint and require LS to pay Mr B some compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr B paid for Loans 1 and 6 to 11; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the    
dates of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file; and
4. Remove all information about Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman