DRN-4387376
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service she received from U K Insurance Limited, trading as 
Direct Line Insurance (UKI) when she attempted to take out a jewellery insurance policy 
with it.
What happened
In early 2023, Miss W tried to take out a jewellery insurance policy with UKI to provide cover 
for her engagement ring. 
UKI told Miss W it needed to see a personalised purchase receipt with her details or a 
valuation which included her full name and address. Miss W arranged for the jeweller her 
partner had purchased the ring from to provide a document with her details on it. However, 
UKI told her this wasnt sufficient.
Miss W raised a complaint about UKIs decision to refuse her cover, as well as the customer 
service shed received.
UKI said the document shed provided didnt meet its requirements. It said Miss W had been 
booked in for call back appointments, but these had not been answered. 
Miss W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think UKI had acted unfairly or 
provided poor service. 
Miss W disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she was shocked that our 
investigator hadnt found anything wrong with the conduct of the staff member shed spoken 
to over the phone. She said UKI had suggested she name her partner as co-owner of her 
property which was not something she wished to do, and she didnt appreciate this advice. 
She said UKI asked her to change the documentation for the purchase of the ring to her 
name which was unnecessary, and it must have realised it was still insufficient to provide her 
with a quote.
She also commented that UKI had ignored her emails and made it difficult to contact it. She 
said she had a disability which affects her energy levels and ability to hold a phone and 
provided a letter to show her diagnosis. She said the experience had significantly dulled 
what should have been an exciting and celebrated life event.
As Miss W disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI says it wasnt able to give Miss W a quotation for cover because she didnt provide the 
information it required.
I can see that UKI told Miss W it needed to see a personalised purchase receipt with (her) 
details on it or a valuation from The Guild of Registered Jewellers and Valuers, or The 
Institute of Registered Valuers which also include(d) (her) full name and address.
The policys terms and conditions say this information needs to be provided in the event of a 
claim. So, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to have required it before offering the policy.
I can see Miss W sent UKI a purchase receipt with her partners name on it, as well as a 
letter from the jeweller with her name and address and the value of the ring on it. However, 
neither of these documents appear to meet UKIs requirements. So, I dont think its decision 
to refuse Miss W cover for the ring was unfair. 
Miss W is also unhappy about the customer service she received from UKI. She says the 
representative she initially spoke to over the phone was abrupt and unhelpful. Shes 
commented that she wouldnt have been in the position she was if he had informed her that 
further documentation was required. She thought he seemed incapable of understanding 
that the policy would be held in her name, for an absolute gift.
Having listened to this call, I dont think UKIs representative was unhelpful. I think he 
understood that the engagement ring was a gift from Miss Ws partner. He was trying to 
explain what was needed for the ring to be insured, taking her specific circumstances into 
account.
The conversation was around the difficulties of the ring being insured with the proof of 
purchase (the receipt) being in Miss Ws partners name when he didnt reside with her or in 
the same country. 
I dont think the representative said anything to imply that a woman could not own her own 
home or that her partners income was dodgy as Miss W has suggested he did. 
Miss W said her partner had purchased the ring in the UK, but it was discounted because 
her partner paid tax overseas. At no point did the UKI representative suggest there was 
anything dodgy about this. He said it was okay for there to have been a discount on the 
purchase of the ring, but documentation needed to show the full replacement cost, because 
the insurance would be to replace it as new. 
Miss W also seems to have misinterpreted what the UKI representative said about the 
possibility of her partner being a joint policyholder once he returned to permanently reside in 
the UK. Shes told us she wasnt happy with her partner being a joint policyholder as she 
was a homeowner in her own right and the policy would be taken out at her address. 
Miss W seems to be under the impression that UKI advised her to name her partner as the 
co-owner of her home, but I think she misunderstood what he said. The policy Miss W was 
trying to take out was a standalone jewellery policy which would have been separate to her 
home insurance policy. 
In the phone call, the representative told Miss W there would be an issue with someone 
trying to make a claim if they didnt live in the UK. He said that once her partner had returned 
to the UK and they shared an address, both of their names could be on the policy. She 
would be the wearer of the ring and her partner could be on the policy either with delegated authority or as a joint policyholder. I think the reason for this suggestion was that Miss Ws 
partner had proof of ownership for the ring as the purchase receipt was in his name.
The representative had told Miss W earlier in the call that UKI would need to see a valuation 
in her name (with a description and the full replacement cost of the item), for the insurance 
to be in her sole name. 
The representative suggested Miss W email the document she had, and he would take a 
look at it for her. But I think he also tried to manage her expectations that this might not be 
enough. I can see that the representative let Miss W know what documentation was required 
two days after the call. 
Miss W has commented that UKI asked her to change the documentation for the purchase of 
the ring to her name when it must have realised that this was insufficient for it to provide her 
with a quote. I can see the UKI representative told her it needed to have the correct 
document with personalised details included. But I havent seen anything to show that he 
advised her to request a document from the jeweller that had sold the ring to her partner. 
The original purchase receipt couldnt be accepted because it was in Miss Ws partners 
name. Theres nothing to suggest that Miss W explored the other option UKI gave her which 
was to get a valuation from The Guild of Registered Jewellers and Valuers, or The Institute 
of Registered Valuers.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Miss W that UKI wasnt willing to accept the letter from 
the jeweller or other documentation she suggested as proof she was the owner of the ring, 
such as a letter from her partner. However, it was up to UKI to decide what documentation it 
was willing to accept and ultimately whether or not to offer the policy to Miss W. 
Miss W disputes what UKI has said about arranging appointments to discuss her request for 
a quotation. She says that UKI ignored her emails on many occasions or made it difficult to 
contact it and she spent a lot of time waiting on hold. Shes made us aware of a medical 
condition which affects her energy levels and ability to hold a telephone.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss W experiences as a result of her medical condition. 
However, shes told us that she hadnt made UKI aware of her disability. So, I cant say that 
UKI should have made adjustments to the way it communicated with her because of this.
Im satisfied that UKI provided Miss W with clear information about what it needed to see 
within a few days of her request for a policy quotation. And it told her the additional 
document she provided wasnt sufficient around a week after she emailed it. While I think 
some of UKIs communication with Miss W after this could have been better, Im not 
persuaded that compensation is warranted here.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss W, but I havent found reason to uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman