DRN-3824865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim they made on their Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to IPA include their claims handlers.  
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their IPA legal expenses insurance policy for help 
with a dispute they had with a property developer and the local council in relation to 
allegations of trespass, nuisance and damage to their property as a result of new homes that 
were built near their own.
The history of the claim between that date and when the complaint was presented to this 
Service is long and detailed and known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat it within 
this decision. Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the handling of their claim generally by IPA. 
Theyve complained about this in some detail both to IPA and this Service. In this decision 
Ive narrowed down those complaint points to the headings below. No discourtesy is 
intended to Mr and Mrs B in this regard; rather my decision reflects the informal nature of our 
Service. In essence, Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that IPA:
Didnt allow them freedom to choose their own Solicitor throughout the course of the 
claim;
Paid part of their indemnity to a firm of Solicitors who they think shouldnt have been 
paid, thereby reducing their indemnity limit;
Caused delays in the progression of their claim.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaints and concluded that they shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs B dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Freedom of Choice of Solicitor
Ive been provided with a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. It says:
There is no cover where:
 The costs of any legal representative other than those of the Adviser prior to the issue of 
court proceedings or a Conflict of Interest arising.
Adviser is defined as Our specialist panel Solicitors or their agents appointed by Us to act 
for You, or, where agreed by Us, another legal representative nominated by You.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent 
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim has never been litigated. That means proceedings have never been 
issued. The first panel firm IPA appointed said they had a conflict of interest in acting for Mr 
and Mrs B, so IPA referred the claim to another panel firm. Although a conflict of interest did 
arise at the outset, IPA were able to supply an alternative panel firm to act for Mr and Mrs B. 
About a month after the second panel firm was appointed Mr and Mrs B questioned whether 
theyd have the freedom to choose their own Solicitor. IPA said they were only prepared to 
provide cover for panel Solicitors prior to the issue of proceedings. I dont think that was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. IPA had after all found another firm who was willing and 
able to take Mr and Mrs Bs claim on to consider whether it fell within policy terms at short 
notice. And whilst Mr and Mrs B did make an enquiry about instructing their own Solicitor 
after this, the enquiry came some time after the second panel firm had already accepted 
instructions to act. Because of this, I dont think IPA did anything wrong by not offering Mr 
and Mrs B the option to instruct their own Solicitors when asked at this juncture.  
There came a point where Mr and Mrs B became unhappy with the conduct of the second 
panel firm. They felt those Solicitors werent progressing their claim as they should have. IPA 
discussed this with both the second panel firm and Mr and Mrs B. Because Mr and Mrs B felt 
the relationship between them and the firm had broken down, IPA said it would be prepared 
to offer them their own choice of Solicitor and gave them information about the hourly rate 
theyd expect to pay an alternative firm. In doing so IPA went beyond what their policy 
required them to do by providing freedom of choice of Solicitor prior to the issue of 
proceedings and where there was no conflict of interst. From what I can see, they did this as 
a gesture of goodwill to Mr and Mrs B to allow them to move on with their claim and not 
because they thought the second panel firm had done anything wrong. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs B did try to source their own Solicitor at this point but at 
considerably higher rates than those directed by IPA. Shortly after they chose their own 
Solicitor, Mr and Mrs B told IPA that firm were no longer able to act for them. After 
discussions with IPA, Mr and Mrs B agreed to the instruction of another of IPAs panel firms 
(the third firm). Since then, proceedings have never been issued so the freedom to choose 
their own Solicitor has never arisen. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel that there were times when the matter couldve been litigated. 
They refer to an approach by their own choice of Solicitor to IPA in 2014 where a request 
was made for him to apply for a cessation notice. Whilst I havent seen any further details of 
this request within the papers Ive been provided with by both parties, I think its unlikely the 
policy covers that specific course of action in law, and even if it did, IPA wouldve needed to be satisfied the claim had reasonable prospects of success and was proportionate to pursue 
at that time. From everything Ive read, the issue of proportionality wasnt clear early on. So, 
if Mr and Mrs B did want to instruct their own Solicitors to pursue a claim at that point, they 
wouldve needed to satisfy IPA the claim fell within cover. I havent seen anything that 
suggests that they did this in 2014. 
Mr and Mrs B have referred to case law which they believe entitled them to the freedom to 
choose their own Solicitor. We dont interpret legislation in that way. And whilst we take into 
account the law when deciding complaints of this nature, we arent bound by it. Ive set out 
the law we have regard to above, which accords with our approach to such cases. I know Mr 
and Mrs B have also quoted Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses 
Insurance) Regulations 1990 but I dont think theyve applied it quite in the same way we do. 
Ive set out how we interpret that Regulation in more detail above.
Overall Mr and Mrs B say they were made to use panel Solicitors totally against their wishes. 
For the reasons Ive mentioned, IPA werent obliged to agree to the use of Mr and Mrs Bs 
own Solicitors and nothing Ive seen suggests that freedom of choice arose during the 
course of this claim other than at the point of a conflict and at that point, it was fair and 
reasonable for IPA to refuse a change of solicitor a month after the second panel firm had 
been appointed. 
Payment IPA made to the second panel firm 
Mr and Mrs B became unhappy with the conduct of the second panel firm. They felt that their 
conduct meant they shouldnt be paid and that nothing should be deducted from their 
indemnity limit in respect of those costs.
As our investigator explained, Im not able to comment on the actions of Solicitors or how 
they conducted Mr and Mrs Bs claim. Thats simply not something I can consider. Firms of 
Solicitors have their own regulator and complaints procedures and are independent of 
insurers. If Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with the actions of the second panel firm, they 
should address this with those Solicitors directly, and then the Legal Ombudsman if theyre 
still dissatisfied. 
I am however able to consider IPAs actions in relation to the second panel firm. And I can 
see that IPA did investigate the complaints Mr and Mrs B made about them, which is what Id 
expect them to do. The outcome of their investigation was that they didnt think the second 
panel firm had done something so significantly wrong such that they shouldnt be paid. They 
did however make the point that they paid less than the panel firm billed, freeing up more of 
the remaining indemnity limit to Mr and Mrs B. I know this doesnt satisfy Mr and Mrs B- at 
this point the costs of litigating the claim arent fully covered by the indemnity remaining. 
Given the cost of litigation, I doubt the sum paid to the second panel firm wouldve made 
much difference to the availability of cover for litigation in any event so I dont think Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve found themselves in a different position if IPA had taken a different view and 
decided not to pay the second panel firm. 
Delays
Mr and Mrs B feel that IPA should pay more than the indemnity available under the policy 
they bought because they dont feel their claim has been handled well overall. They refer to 
delays in the progression of their claim which led to the indemnity limit being used up.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B arent happy with the conduct of their claim generally but that 
doesnt mean IPA did something wrong such that they need to provide more indemnity. IPA 
instructed panel firms to act for them in conducting Mr and Mrs Bs claims. Each time Mr and 
Mrs B complained to them about something they investigated it and replied within the time 
frames Id expect. And each time they were asked to action a request for authority by the 
panel firms, IPA did this without delay. They also kept a close eye on the limit of indemnity 
and whether the use of costs was reasonable proportionate in the circumstances. I know Mr 
and Mrs B arent happy with this but that doesnt mean theyre entitled to more cover than 
they bought. 
Theyve recently referred to delays leading to Court timescales passing. Im not sure what 
this refers to, but I havent seen any evidence of IPA causing delays, such that limitations 
covered under the policy were missed. If there were claims that werent covered by the 
policy that Mr and Mrs B didnt bring because they didnt have the benefit of cover for them, 
thats not something I can attribute to IPA. For all the reasons Ive mentioned, Im satisfied 
that IPA didnt conduct the claim in a way that caused Mr and Mrs B detriment. Because of 
this I cant say they need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman