DRN-2439725
The complaint
D, a small business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC told it that it was going to have 
to pay for business banking, although its director says he was never told about this. Mr D 
brings this complaint on behalf of D.
What happened
Mr D opened a business account with Barclays in July 2019, for his business, D. Since then 
Mr D has been unwell, and experienced difficult personal circumstances. He has set out for 
our service the difficulties he has faced in the last year, and explained that this has meant 
that he hasnt been able to make progress with his business in the last year. 
Mr D said he hadnt used this account very much. Barclays sent us the statements, which 
show it had been used for a small number of transactions. 
Mr D said Barclays had now written to him to say that D was going to have to start paying for 
business banking. Mr D said he wasnt aware that he had to pay for Ds banking. Barclays 
had never told him that. Initially, he asked Barclays to extend the free banking for another 
year. Barclays said no, and Mr D said the service was so bad, he wanted Barclays to pay 
£500 in compensation, and to provide him with either one or two years of free business 
banking.
Barclays said it didnt think it had provided Mr D with the best possible customer service 
when he got in touch, so it wanted to say sorry about that. And it said Mr D was being looked 
after by a relationship team, not by one specific person. So Barclays was sorry if that hadnt 
been made clear by the person who opened Ds business account. 
Barclays was also sorry it had taken so long for Mr D to be able to speak to it, although its 
notes say this took an hour and 20 minutes, not over two hours, as Mr D remembers it. 
Barclays said telephone waiting times were much longer, due to the pandemic. 
But Barclays didnt think it had made a mistake about Ds initial offer of free banking for a 
year. It said that it had explained to Mr D in a letter on 23 July 2019 that business banking 
would be free for the first 12 months. After then, D would move to one of Barclays price 
plans. And Barclays would write to him at least 2 months before it started charging, to sort 
out which plan he should be on. Barclays said it had evidence that this July letter was sent. 
Barclays offered £50 as compensation, and a box of chocolates as a gesture of goodwill. It 
knew Mr D hadnt accepted this, but said he could get in touch if he changed his mind.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said even if Mr D didnt 
have a face to face meeting to open his account, where he was told about charges, Barclays 
had still written to him telling him that D would need to pay for banking after the first 12 
months. 
Our investigator said hed seen the account opening letter that Barclays sent in July 2019, 
and the reminder letter Barclays sent Mr D three months before the end of the free banking 
period. Both letters were addressed correctly, and made clear that free banking period only 
lasts 12 months. Mr D said he hadnt received the first letter, but our investigator said that 
wouldnt be Barclays fault. 
Our investigator said Barclays had felt that it couldve provided better service when Mr D got 
in touch. Our investigator agreed, but he said that the offer of £50 that Barclays made 
reflected the amount our investigator would expect to see in such circumstances.
Our investigator understood Mr D wasnt happy with the offer of chocolates, but Barclays 
said this was meant as a gesture of goodwill after considering Mr Ds circumstances. Our 
investigator thought Barclays made this gesture with the best of intentions. 
Mr D didnt agree. He set out for us in more detail the ill health and personal difficulties that 
hed experienced during the year after opening this account with Barclays. Mr D said he was 
shocked to be asked to start paying, and wanted to stay on the existing plan, as he hadnt 
been able to get much traction on his business. 
Mr D said when he got in touch with Barclays about being asked to pay, he found out that his 
small business advisor was no longer in the same job. That person had just suggested that 
Mr D contact the general enquiry number. Mr D said this was terrible customer service, he 
didnt expect to lose his small business advisor. 
Mr D said it took two and a half hours to get through to the helpline, and make a complaint. 
And when someone got back in touch, they wouldnt waive the charges or extend free 
banking for another year, even though there had only been minimal transactions on the 
account in the first year. 
Although Barclays said it had told Mr D banking would only be free for the first year, Mr D 
said this wasnt communicated to him. Barclays said it usually communicates the offer of 12 
months without fees face to face, but Mr D said hed never had a face to face meeting.
Because Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr D but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why I think that. 
Mr D opened a business account in summer 2019. Although it has had little use, there have 
been some transactions on the account. Mr D wasnt charged for his business banking in the 
first year. 
It is quite common for banks to charge businesses to bank with them. And Barclays does 
that. It waives these charges for the first year, when businesses are just starting up. 
Mr D has told us that he hasnt been able to do very much with his business in this year, due 
to health issues he has faced. I accept what he says about this, and Im very sorry to hear 
hes been so unwell and had such a difficult time. I hope hes now starting to feel better. Because Mr D didnt really get his business started in the first year, he asked Barclays to 
extend the free banking offer. But Barclays has said that it wont do that. It has shown us that 
it wrote to Mr D when he opened his account, and told him then it would charge. Mr D says 
he didnt get this letter, but I can see it was sent to the right address. So if Mr D didnt get it, 
then, like our investigator, I dont think that would be Barclays fault. I dont think Barclays 
had to send this sort of information by a tracked or signed for service.
And Mr D did get the second letter, telling him that Barclays was going to start charging. I 
think that Mr D got that letter in sufficient time that he couldve moved Ds banking 
elsewhere, if he didnt want to pay Barclays charges. 
I dont think that Barclays has to waive charges for another year or two. Its not unfair or 
unreasonable for Barclays to start charging, as it said it would. And thats still the case, even 
if Mr D hasnt yet been able to devote much time to his business.
Barclays has said that it couldve done better when Mr D got in touch. I think thats right, but, 
like our investigator, I also think that a payment of £50 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
make up for the lapses in customer service that Barclays identified. I understand that Mr D 
hasnt yet accepted this offer, so Ill award this now. But in case he has accepted this more 
recently, Ill allow Barclays to offset against my award any payment it has already made for 
this complaint. 
I understand that Mr D didnt feel the offer of a box of chocolates was appropriate, so I wont 
include that in my award. 
I know that Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think that Barclays has to do more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr D £50. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
can offset against this award any payment it has already made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman