DRN-3175376
The complaint
Mrs A complains Nationwide Building Society failed to honour a claim she brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mrs A is represented by a claims 
management company. When I refer to things said or done by Mrs A in relation to the 
complaint then this should be taken to include things said or done by her claims 
management company also.
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will summarise only briefly:
Mrs A and her husband had a membership with a holiday club I will call C. In May 
2017 they entered into a contract with another company I will call R. It said it would 
arrange for them to be released from her membership with C and claim 
compensation for the mis-selling of the membership.
Mrs A and her husband paid R £8,154 towards the contract, made up of £2,446 paid 
from her Nationwide credit card to a company I will call MRL and a total of £5,708 by 
bank transfer. The contract guaranteed that R would achieve the release of Mrs A 
and her husband from their membership within 12 months of May 2017.
Mr A says R failed to arrange for them to be released from their membership with C, 
and subsequently went into liquidation in May 2018. 
Mrs A brought a claim against Nationwide under s 75 of the CCA in March 2019 
through the claims management company.
Nationwide investigated the matter and didnt agree Mrs A had a valid claim under s 
75 of the CCA. It said that there was not sufficient evidence to show that there had 
been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. It asked for evidence that Mr S 
was still in contract with C. It didnt consider the documentation it received was 
conclusive. It pointed out that R had advised Mrs A to stop making maintenance 
payments to C and this had resulted in membership being cancelled. It also noted the 
agreement did not guarantee that a compensation claim would be made on her 
behalf.
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. it. She concluded Nationwide had been right to say Mrs A didnt have a 
valid claim under s 75 CCA, because there wasnt clear evidence of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
She also thought the s 75 claims failed because the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) link was broken as MRL had taken the credit card payments instead of R. Our 
investigator investigated whether there were any exceptions which meant this might 
not matter, but she couldnt find any. She also thought about whether Nationwide 
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the society had 
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms by which they can assist. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, s 75 CCA gives a legal right to the account 
holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as the 
dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where goods 
or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this way is 
generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer 
attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable 
prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process in a competent 
way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mrs A had a valid section 75 claim against Nationwide for essentially the same 
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think her claim meets the DCS requirements I 
referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The 
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, 
in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need to 
have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented something to 
them, or breached its contract with them. Mrs A didnt pay R, which is the company she has 
a problem with. Instead, her credit card payments went to MRL.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the 
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an 
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the time 
the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being linked 
in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very specific 
definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need to 
be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would be 
in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be followed by 
the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting power 
at any general meeting of the company. In general, I would view a company director or 
majority shareholder to fall into these categories. Being based at the same or a similar 
business address, as Mrs A has claimed, would not be enough to make two companies 
associates.
Ive carefully considered whether R and MRL were associates at the time of Mrs Ss credit 
card payment, by checking publicly available information about the companies. A Mr K was a controller of R between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016, while an associate of his (a Mr 
U) controlled MRL. This means the companies themselves were associates during this time 
window. Mr K gave up his shareholding in R from 1 December 2016 and I cannot see that he 
was a controller of the company from that point on. has cast some doubts on the Companies 
House filings which show Mr K giving up his shares on 1 December 2016. The records were 
filed late and Mrs A thinks Mr K controlled R for longer than the records say. But I think this 
is speculative without further evidence that the records filed with Companies House are not 
an accurate representation of what happened and when. In the absence of convincing 
evidence to the contrary, I conclude Mr K was no longer a controller of R from 1 December 
2016.
Although this next point has not been mentioned in this complaint the claims management 
company has raised it in others and I will address it for the sake of completeness. It has 
been shown that there is also an outstanding debenture in Mr Ks favour, granted by R, 
dating back to January 2016. It has been suggested this means he controls the company. I 
dont agree. All this shows is that Mr K had agreed to lend money to R on a secured basis 
and this has not yet been repaid.
Because Mrs Ss credit card payments were made outside of the window in which R and 
MRL were associates, this means the exception doesnt apply in her case.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor 
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor 
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the 
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the 
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme 
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore 
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be applied 
in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing where the 
line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to the card 
scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion. The judge 
noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and that the 
precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether the 
creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], clarified 
that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements between the 
company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the contract, and the 
payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods or services could be 
enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS agreement to exist.
In Mrs Ss case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between R, 
which was the supplier of the services, and MRL, which was the payee. Its clear that MRL 
took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice, as Ive seen 
evidence that R required its salespeople to tell customers that the name of MRL or another 
company might appear on their statements.
There is some evidence that a company in the group to which MRL belonged, acted as Rs 
accountants. We have tried to find out more from this group of companies, and the relevant 
liquidators. Unfortunately, we have not received information which helps to clarify what the 
arrangements were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more 
complete picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and had the benefit of direct evidence from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much information and I feel 
unable to conclude that R was linked to the card scheme via its arrangements with MRL, on 
the evidence available to me.
Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mrs As case, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it would be because it doesnt appear MRL was involved in the 
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mrs A had contracted 
with R for.
I have also noted Mrs As point that there was link between MRL and another company I will 
call MRTP, but the payment was processed by MRL and I can only consider the link 
between R and MRL. Nor can I presume there was a link because the different companies 
operated from the same building. The location of a business is not one of the criteria I can 
consider under s 184 CCA.
In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow Mrs A to 
make a section 75 claim against Nationwide. I therefore dont think the society was wrong to 
reject her claim. Ive thought about the arguments Mr Ss representatives have raised in 
response to our investigators assessment, but they dont change my view. I appreciate the 
frustration with the situation but I cannot require Nationwide to pay out money where a claim 
falls outside the terms of s 75 CCA.
Although I do not think the claim passes the DCS requirement I have noted that Nationwide 
has considered its merits. It contacted C and discovered that since Mrs A and her husband 
had ceased making maintenance payments, apparently on the advice of R their membership 
had been cancelled. Nationwide took the view that R had delivered what it promised. It did 
not receive satisfactory evidence that there had been either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. I have some sympathy with this conclusion, but I have not taken a view 
as I would wish to see further information before doing so. However, since the claim fails on 
other grounds I need not comment further. 
Chargeback
The CMC hasnt queried our investigators opinion on whether or not it was possible for 
Nationwide to have attempted a chargeback on either of the credit card transactions.
I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached on this question. The maximum length 
of time to dispute a transaction via the relevant card scheme. This is because the rules 
applicable to chargebacks impose a deadline of 120 days from the point that the cardholder 
expected to receive the merchandise or services.
Like our investigator I have noted from the Terms and Conditions of the contract - that R 
confirmed the relinquishment would be achieved within 12 months of the date of the 
agreement which would have been in May 2018. So, Nationwide couldnt have been 
expected to attempt a chargeback when Mrs A raised a claim in March 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think Nationwide treated Mrs A unfairly by refusing 
to reimburse her. My final decision is that I do not uphold her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman