DRN-3801813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds (Amtrusts) decision to 
decline a claim they made for damage to their sofa cushions. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J bought a sofa in 2018 and bought an upholstery protection plan (the policy) at 
the same time. 
In July 2022, Mrs J tried claim against the policy for her sofa cushions which had been 
excessively flattened. However, Amtrust said the claim would be rejected as the policy only 
provided cover for accidental damage. 
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs J complained to Amtrust about its decision to decline their claim. 
Amtrust sent them a final response not upholding the complaint on the basis that the claim 
had been correctly declined. Unhappy with Amtrusts response, Mr and Mrs J brought their 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded, in October 2022, that that 
the complaint shouldnt be upheld. As the policy didnt provide cover for interior fillings not 
springing back into shape, she didnt think Amtrust had acted unreasonably in declining the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said the wrong terms and 
conditions had been considered and provided a different set of terms and conditions, which 
they had received when they bought the sofa. 
Mr and Mrs J requested an ombudsmans decision on their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key point of disagreement between the parties to this complaint is whether the policy 
Mr and Mrs J purchased covers loss of resilience of the interior fillings of their sofa cushions. 
Amtrust have said that paragraph 11 of section 4 of the policy terms and conditions states 
that interior fillings not springing back into shape, is not covered by the policy.
However, paragraph 11 of section 4 of the version of terms and conditions provided by Mrs J 
says that general loss of resilience of interior fillings (softening of less than 30%) isnt 
covered. 
Mrs J told us that the person who inspected the sofa when they first contacted the seller 
about the issue, confirmed that the softening of the cushions would have been well in excess 
of 30%. 
Our investigator sent the second set of policy terms to Amtrust for its comment. Amtrusts 
complaint handler advised that while there were some differences between the two versions 
of the terms and conditions, the level of cover was the same for both, namely: Accidental 
Staining, Accidental Damage and Stain Protection.
Ive carefully considered both sets of the policy terms and conditions. In the version provided 
to this service by Amtrust, Section 3  What is covered, states: Your .Protection Plan 
covers you for sudden accidental damage (resulting in rips, punctures, scuffs, burns, chips, 
or scratches), and stains.
In the version of terms and conditions provided by Mrs J, under Section 3  What is 
covered, it states: 1. The cost of repair in the event of a sudden, unintentional incident 
resulting in a stain, rip, puncture, scuff, scratch or burn.
So, in summary, both sets of terms confirm that the insured peril covered by the policy is 
accidental damage. Therefore, in declining Mr and Mrs Js claim, on the basis that the 
damage claimed for wasnt accidental, and therefore isnt covered by the policy, Amtrust has 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I agree with Mrs J, that the exclusion in section 4, in her version of the policy terms and 
conditions, does refer to softening of less than 30% being excluded. However, Id only need 
to consider whether the exclusion has been fairly applied by Amtrust, if it could be first 
shown that a valid claim had been made against the policy. As that isnt the case here, I 
conclude that Amtrust havent unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Js claim, so I wont be upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in this decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman