DRN-3281228
The complaint
Mrs F (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with 
lending. 
What happened
In total Mrs F was advanced six home collected loans from STF between October 2014 and 
December 2015. Ive included some of the information the Financial Ombudsman has 
received from STF about the lending in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £600.00 08/10/2014 23/12/2014 15 £60.00
2 £700.00 23/12/2014 03/06/2015 15 £70.00
3 £700.00 03/06/2015 12/08/2015 15 £70.00
4 £750.00 12/08/2015 07/10/2015 15 £75.00
5 £800.00 07/10/2015 02/12/2015 15 £80.00
6 £900.00 02/12/2015 01/06/2016 15 £90.00
The repayment date for loan six, is the one STF has used in its own loan table that it 
supplied to the Financial Ombudsman, even though in the final response letter STF says the 
loan was written off in June 2017.  
In response to Mrs Fs complaint STF issued its final response letter (FRL) on 9 December 
2020. In the FRL, STF explained that it hadnt done anything wrong when it advanced these 
loans.  STF says, that Mrs F had problems repaying her final loan and the outstanding 
balance of £690 was written off in June 2017. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs Fs representatives referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.    
The adjudicator, then reviewed Mrs Fs complaint and she didnt uphold her complaint about 
loans 1 - 3. 
But, the adjudicator thought, that loans from and including loan four shouldnt have been 
granted. She thought that further checks needed to have been carried out because there 
were signs Mrs F was having problems managing her money. She had taken longer than the 
contractual agreement to repay loan two and each new loan had been taken out on the 
same day a previous loan had been repaid. 
She went on to explain that further checks wouldve likely shown STF that Mrs F had several 
outstanding loans with other credit providers. Overall, she didnt think the final three loans 
were sustainable. 
Neither Mrs F or her representative have responded to either the adjudicators assessment 
or the ombudsman referral letters. 
STF disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, in part. In summary, it said:
There was nothing wrong in the way STF dealt with Mrs F;
it adhered to all the regulations that were applicable at the time;
it has only been since November 2018 STF has the technology to enable online 
applications so the evidence taken such as wage slips could be kept;
STF partially agreed with the adjudicator, it agreed with her findings about loans 1-3 
and it has agreed to uphold loan six and
STF says there isnt enough information to show loans four and five should be 
upheld.
The offer STF made for loan six was put to Mrs Fs representative. No response was 
received, and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator 
reached about loans 1  3. So, it seems that there is no longer a dispute about this lending. 
This means I wont be making a finding about them in this decision. But I have kept them in 
mind when thinking about Mrs Fs overall lending relationship.   
Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when loans 4 - 5 were lent. But Ive kept 
in mind loan 1- 3 as they do form part of Mrs Fs lending history with STF. 
STF has already accepted that loan six should be upheld, so Ive added this loan to the 
redress section at the end of this decision. To be clear I am not going to be making a finding 
about this loan either as I no longer think there is any disagreement about it.  
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs F. These factors include: 
Mrs F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs F. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time these loans were advanced, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Fs complaint.
Loan 4
By the time loan four was advanced, it was now the third time that Mrs F had returned for 
further borrowing on the same day that a previous loan had been repaid, and her weekly 
commitment had increased from £60 per week at loan one to now £75 at loan four. 
In addition, Mrs F had some repayment problems, it had taken her 23 weeks to repay loan 
two, when it was contracted to last only 15 weeks. 
Given, Mrs F apparent need to continue to take credit and her previous problems I think that 
STFs checks needed to go further. For this loan, STF has provided evidence that it carried 
out an income and expenditure check, which showed it that Mrs F had £475 per week of 
disposable income. So STF may have reasonably concluded that Mrs F could afford her 
weekly commitment. 
But, as Ive said, the checks, in my view didnt go far enough. By this point in time, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, STF needed to have been verifying the information that Mrs F 
was providing in order to gain a complete understanding of her financial position at the time 
this loan was advanced. So, I dont think the checks were proportionate. 
STF couldve asked to see evidence of Mrs Fs bank statement, wage slip or copies of 
various utility bills. Or, it couldve looked at what Ive considered here which is her full credit 
file in order to understand what, if any other commitment she had. 
Mrs F has provided a copy of her credit file, so I dont think its unreasonable to review this to 
see what further checks may have highlighted about Mrs Fs financial situation. A review of 
Mrs Fs credit file ought to have showed STF the lending wasnt sustainable, had it carried 
out further checks it wouldve likely discovered the following; 
1. a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded against Mrs F in November 2014 for 
more than £730;2. Mrs F had at least five other outstanding home collected loans at the time, with 
weekly repayments of at least £225 per week and 
3. one mobile phone and two utility accounts were significantly in arrears and were 
likely to be defaulted in the coming months. 
This information shows me that Mrs F had previously had financial difficulties to the extent 
that a credit provider sough and was granted a CCJ and these financial difficulties appear to 
have continued given that there were at least three accounts with significant arrears. 
On top of this, Mrs F already had at least five outstanding home credit loans, so I didnt see 
how providing further credit to Mrs F was in anyway sustainable given what Ive seen in her 
credit file. So, I dont think STF ought to have granted this loan. 
Loan 5
For the same reasons as loan four, I think further checks needed to be carried out before 
this loan was advanced for the same reasons. Again, this was another loan granted on the 
same day a previous one was repaid, and her weekly commitments had again increased, 
she was now due to pay £80 per week. 
Ive looked at her credit file again, and a similar picture is present, there is still significant 
amounts of other high cost credit that she was due to repay and she was still in arrears with 
a number of accounts  these accounts were likely about to defaulted due to the arrears. 
So, for similar reasons as loan four, I dont think Mrs Fs fifth loan ought to have been 
granted because it wasnt sustainable for her. 
Loan six has been dealt with earlier on in this decision, but Ive included it in the putting 
things right section below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs F from loan 4 as I think it ought to. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs F may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, 
she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs F in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs F would more likely than not have taken up any one ofthese options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mrs F loans 4 - 6.
If STF have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if you are able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If STF are not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything STF have already refunded.
B. STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs F originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. STF should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs F as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs F 
having made overpayments then STF should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. STF should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal STF has already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mrs F. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then STF 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs F. STF shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off. 
E. STF should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation 
to loans 4 - 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs F 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman