DRN-2318734
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has declined a
claim made for treatment of her horse under her equine insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs B took out a standard horse insurance policy with Red Sands. And 
renewed the policy cover in November 2019. Mrs B said in March 2020, her horse was hurt  
when it put its leg through a gate. As Mrs Bs insurance covered an injury caused by an 
accident, she made a claim for her veterinary fees under her insurance policy with Red 
Sands.
Red Sands turned down the claim relying on a clause of the policy Terms and Conditions 
that said they wouldnt pay any claims caused by barbed wire or other fences. And said 
when a gate is closed it forms part of the fence, to prevent escape.
Mrs B complained as she didnt feel the clause was highlighted and didnt believe the policy
was fit for purpose. She said it hadnt been made clear that a gate would be considered in 
the same way as fencing. And if it had she wouldnt have taken out the insurance policy. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that the intention of the policy when referring to fencing would also 
cover a gate as its part of the enclosure. Mrs B didnt agree and said she didnt feel the 
clause was clear enough. 
She asked for an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
I can understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs B. In determining my decision 
Ive considered whether Red Sands has applied the exclusion theyve used to decline Mrs 
Bs claim fairly and reasonably.
Pet insurance is sold on whats called a non advised basis. This means that Red Sands had 
no duty to advise Mrs B if this was the best policy for her circumstances. Their only duty is to 
ensure details of the cover was provided to allow Mrs B to make up her own mind as to what 
type of cover she wanted. 
And following the purchase of the policy, I can see from Red Sands records the policy 
documentation was sent to Mrs B for her to review on the 21 November 2018. I can see Mrs 
B was sent  a Complete Guide to Your Horse Policy  that outlined the basis on which Red 
Sands offered cover. And says, Please read the documents carefully to ensure that what we 
are offering meets with your individual requirements.
On renewal of the insurance policy in November 2019, Reds Sands asked Mrs B to  check 
the policy gives the level of cover you need. And Mrs B continued with the insurance cover.
So, Im satisfied Reds Sands provided details of the policy for Mrs B to decide the level of 
cover she wanted.
Ive looked at the policy documentation and the clause Red Sands is relying on. The 
exclusion isnt covered under the section  Vet Fees, pages 15 to 16. But is under General 
Exclusions , page 37 under point 30, Ms B has said the exclusion is hidden away and I can 
understand her point. But I can also see that a condition of the policy under Section 4 is that:
You must ensure any area in which your horse/pony is kept is appropriately
fenced or otherwise secure and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape.
Red Sands declined Mrs Bs claim under the exclusion  that they wouldnt pay any claims 
caused by barbed wire or other fences. In my opinion, when a gate is closed it would form 
part of the whole fencing of a field and so I think would come under the definition of 'other 
fences'. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision and while I agree it would have been 
clearer if Red Sands had defined that this was inclusive of gates. I dont think the intention of 
the policy and Red Sands reliance on this exclusion is unreasonable here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman