DRN-4473269
The complaint
Mr M has complained about NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) holding him liable for a credit 
card which he says he didnt take out.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In January 2019, an Aqua credit card was taken out in Mr Ms name. It was used over 
several years, including for a money transfer to Mr Ms personal account. It received regular 
repayments from a business account in Mr Ms name.
In 2022, Mr M said he didnt take out or use this credit card. He said it had been opened and 
used by his former employer, who hed given copies of his ID to, and his ex-employer had 
taken control of his bank account.
NewDay held Mr M liable for the debt. The card and PIN had been sent to Mr Ms genuine 
address along with regular statements. And Mr Ms bank said thered been no third-party 
access to the account and Mr M had continued to use online banking on his genuine device.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though Ive carefully considered everything both sides have said, I will focus my decision on 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Ive found that NewDay are entitled to hold Mr M liable for this account. Ill explain why.
The credit card was applied for using Mr Ms correct key details. NewDay carried out checks, 
which did not find any indication that the account was being applied for by anyone else.
While the email and phone number Mr M gave us do not match those used on the 
application, this is not conclusive either way. Its technically possible they were someone 
elses contact details. But its equally possible that Mr M can have more than one phone 
number or email address, or that he changed his contact details over the years.
A large money transfer was made from the credit card to Mr Ms personal account. Mr M 
says that he stopped using that account in late 2019, and that his ex-employer took control 
of it. But I can see that Mr M continued to access his mobile banking from the same mobile 
device he was using for his genuine activity before, which had been registered with the 
phone number he confirmed as being genuine, from IP addresses which matched up to IP 
addresses he used before. He continued to received income into that account, and it 
continued to be used for day-to-day spending consistent with Mr Ms previous spending, at 
many of the exact same locations he usually went to before. He continued to receive 
statements, but didnt tell his bank anything was wrong at the time. And his bank confirmed 
thered been no third party access to Mr Ms account. So Im reasonably satisfied that Mr M 
was using that account, meaning he received and benefitted from the money transfer.
Similarly, repayments were made from a business account Mr M was registered to. Again, 
this account was accessed from Mr Ms device at IP addresses hed used before.
It is not likely or plausible that a fraudster would make repayments towards their fraudulent 
spending for years, continue to pay their victim a wage for a long time after theyd stopped 
working for them, or transfer large sums of money to their victim. But that activity is very 
consistent with the possibility that this was Mr Ms credit card.
The card and PIN were sent separately to Mr M at his genuine address, as were monthly 
statements which were addressed to him by name. It is not likely or plausible that his ex-
employer would be able to access his post and intercept both the card and PIN, nor that they 
could then intercept all his statements for years on end. And Mr M confirmed he received 
other letters  indeed, he said he discovered this account and other accounts by receiving 
letters. Mr M says a fraudulent mail redirect was put in place in 2022, but thats not relevant 
to the card and PIN being sent to him in 2019, nor to the statements he was sent between 
2019 and 2021. I dont see a likely or plausible way that someone couldve got the card, PIN 
and statements without Mr Ms consent and without him ever noticing something was wrong. 
I think its most likely that Mr M was aware of the credit card and its activity at the time, from 
the statements he received. Yet he didnt tell NewDay anything was wrong until 2022. And 
he would not wait so long if the account had been opened or used without his consent.
While I appreciate that other businesses may have chosen not to hold Mr M liable for other 
debts, we look at each case on its own merits. And in this case, there is substantial evidence 
which strongly suggests that this was Mr Ms account. Whereas Ive found no evidence 
which reasonably shows or substantiates that anyone other than Mr M applied for this 
account. Indeed, there doesnt seem to be a likely or plausible way that all the activity 
couldve taken place over so long without Mr Ms knowledge or consent.
On that basis, I find it was fair for NewDay to hold Mr M liable for the account. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr M to receive. But 
given the evidence and circumstances at hand, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman