DRN-4185863
The complaint
Ms L complains about her buy to let mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). 
She says she asked for a new interest rate but TMW refused her application. As she was 
unable to get a new mortgage elsewhere either, she doesnt think TMW has treated her 
fairly.
What happened
Ms L took out her mortgage around 15 years ago. Its a portfolio mortgage secured over two 
properties. Concerned about rising interest rates, in around September 2022 Ms L asked 
TMW for a new fixed interest rate on her mortgage. She was unhappy that the rates TMW 
had available for existing customers were higher than those offered to new customers. 
Ms L says she therefore looked into moving her mortgage to another lender to secure a new 
rate, but was advised by several different mortgage brokers that that wouldnt be possible. 
She says thats because lenders now generally only accept portfolio mortgages on four or 
more properties.
Ms L complained. She didnt think she was being treated fairly, because she was trapped 
with TMW but it wouldnt offer her a new interest rate  even though it did offer rates to other 
customers. Ms L says that the impact of rising interest rates since September 2022 has 
made her circumstances more difficult. Shes struggling to meet the higher payments and 
cant increase her employment to make up the shortfall because of caring commitments. 
Ms L says she didnt understand she had a portfolio mortgage, that wasnt what she applied 
for when she took the mortgage out, and not something she would have agreed to.
TMW said it was under no obligation to offer new interest rates to existing customers. While 
it did so to eligible customers, it didnt have to offer the same rates as it offered to new 
customers. And it said that it made clear what mortgage Ms L was taking out in 2006, and 
that if Ms L didnt understand it or didnt think it was appropriate for her, that was something 
to take up with the mortgage broker that sold it to her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint so Ms L asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L first took out a mortgage over one property, and then borrowed further funds for a 
second property. At that time, in around 2007, TMW explained that because she now had 
more than one property it would treat her borrowing as a portfolio mortgage. 
Im satisfied it made this clear at the time. And TMW didnt sell the mortgage to Ms L or give 
her advice about it  the mortgage broker she used at the time did that. So if Ms L thinks this 
wasnt the right mortgage for her, she would need to complain about that to the broker that 
recommended it to her. But based on TMWs lending policy at the time, it would always have 
treated two properties as a portfolio  so if Ms L didnt want that, she would have had to go 
to a different lender for her second property. That was something for her broker, not TMW, to 
advise her about.
In any case, I dont think the fact that TMW treated this as a portfolio mortgage is at the root 
of this complaint. Ms Ls key concern is that the interest rates TMW said were available to 
her in 2022 were not as good as the rates that it offered to new customers. 
But there is no obligation on a lender to offer new interest rates to existing customers when 
their old rates expire. The mortgage terms and conditions and the mortgage offer dont 
promise that; all they say is that after the initial fixed rate period, the mortgage will revert to 
the reversionary rate for the rest of the term. And this is a buy to let mortgage, not a 
residential mortgage  which means its not regulated and so the rules of mortgage 
regulation dont apply. Even if this was a regulated mortgage, though, there would still be no 
obligation on TMW to offer new rates.
TMW does offer new rates to existing customers, but Ms L doesnt think the rates made 
available to her are as good as new customer rates. TMW has a range of rates for 
mortgages of different types, so its not possible to make a direct comparison between the 
rates available on existing mortgages like Ms Ls and the best rates TMW has available for 
non-portfolio new lending. Its fair and reasonable for TMW to offer different rates for 
different types of mortgages.
And its not unreasonable to offer different rates to new and existing customers. Despite 
what Ms L says, theres no rule against this. Some lenders focus their business on retaining 
existing customers, some prioritise attracting new customers  and they price their products 
accordingly. 
If Ms L was unable to move her mortgage elsewhere, thats not something TMW is 
responsible for. But even if she can no longer take out a portfolio mortgage over just two 
properties, it might still have been possible to re-mortgage each property separately. I 
havent seen the advice the brokers she consulted gave, so I dont know if there was a 
reason why this couldnt be done, or if it wasnt considered. 
Im satisfied that TMW acted fairly when it told Ms L what rates it had available to her. I 
appreciate Ms L would have preferred a lower rate. But I dont think TMW acted 
unreasonably in not making rates she wasnt eligible for available to her. Im sorry to hear 
that Ms L has found things increasingly difficult since she decided not to take the rate with 
TMW. She may still be able to take a rate now, and thats something shell need to discuss 
with TMW.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman