DRN-3443791
The complaint
Mr S complains about Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) for an error in processing his 
instruction to close his account. He wants Shawbrook to pay him compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, and also to reimburse him for additional tax he has had to pay.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Shawbrook. This account required 120 days notice to close the 
account.
In December 2020, Mr S contacted Shawbrook and arranged a withdrawal. He also gave 
notice to close the account on 1 April 2021.
On 7 December 2020 his withdrawal took place, leaving a balance of £15,000 in the 
account.
In March 2021 Mr S contacted Shawbrook and asked if he could amend his closure of the 
account, and to delay this until May 2021.
Shawbrook did not process the request to delay closure, and on 1 April 2020 accounted to 
Mr S for interest earned on his money. This meant he was paid his interest of around £1770 
in the 2020/2021 tax year.
On 1 April 2021 Mr S called Shawbrook to check that his request had been processed.
Shawbrook then extended the account until July 2021.
Mr S complained to Shawbrook. He thought that the failure to observe his request meant 
that he received his interest in the wrong tax year and that interest pushed him into a higher 
tax bracket, meaning he would have to pay more of it in tax than if it had been delayed into 
the 2021/2022 tax year.
Shawbrook offered to write to HMRC to explain that it was their error, and to request that Mr 
S be allowed to move the payment into the next tax year. Shawbrook offered Mr S £75 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr S was not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This was 
that Shawbrook ought to increase its compensation to £250. Shawbrook agreed to this. 
Mr S agreed with the compensation but wanted to ensure that Shawbrook would also 
compensate him for his higher tax liability.
I previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in March 2022. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I agreed that Shawbrook had acted wrongly and that 
Shawbrook ought to pay Mr S compensation. 
I noted, however, that the amount of extra tax Mr S had paid could not be calculated or 
confirmed until after the end of the 2021/2022 tax year. 
I felt that the offer from Shawbrook of £250 was appropriate to compensate Mr Ss distress 
and inconvenience, but that Shawbrook ought to consider any evidence of financial losses at 
a later date, after Mr S had completed his tax return and could provide evidence of his loss. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Shawbrook has responded indicating that it accepts my provisional decision. 
Mr S has not responded to the decision but had previously indicated that he approved of the 
approach of resolving the complaint now, and resolving the financial losses at a later date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no arguments have been received opposing my provisional decision my view remains 
unchanged and I adopt my provisional decision and reasoning as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and 
direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
Pay £250 compensation to Mr S for his distress and inconvenience; and
Reimburse Mr Ss demonstrable financial loss within 28 days of him providing 
evidence of his income and tax paid in 2020/2021 and in 2021/2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman