DRN-3435845
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the redress he has been paid by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) for 
the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr J took a PPI policy along with a mortgage (account number ending 6381) with Lloyds in 
December 1990. 
In May 2020 Lloyds upheld Mr Js complaint that the PPI was mis-sold to him. If offered and 
paid him a total of £4,101.81. In the absence of policy information, it assumed a start date of 
December 1990, which was the same as the mortgage start date (and being the earliest 
evidence it had of PPI being charged), and an end date of November 1997. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the amount of redress and in particular the end date as well as the 
percentage of compensatory interest used prior to 1993 in the calculations. Mr J 
corresponded with Lloyds but remained dissatisfied. He then brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint thought that the offer was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr J disagreed. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has already agreed that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, I will not be considering how 
the PPI was sold to Mr J. My decision is limited to consideration of the offer that Lloyds has 
made. 
The redress calculation
Mr J is not happy with the redress that has been offered. He isnt satisfied with the 
assumptions that Lloyds has used for the dates in the redress calculations. He says he 
bought his property in November 1990 and it was sold in January 2005 so the calculations 
should tie in with those dates. 
For the start date of the calculations Lloyds has used the start date of the mortgage. For the 
end date it no longer holds all the records relating to the policy so has used the information it 
does hold  that its possible the last premium was paid in November 1997.
I should first say that I dont find it unusual that Lloyds or Mr J no longer hold records of all 
the information about the mortgage and PPI policy. They were both taken over thirty years 
ago and the mortgage itself has since been redeemed. Also, businesses are not obliged to 
keep paperwork indefinitely. 
I should also clarify that where there is limited and/or conflicting information available for a
complaint as provided by the parties it can be difficult to be certain about what happened. 
So, I have to base my decision on what I think more likely happened bearing in mind the 
limited information I have and in the circumstances of that particular complaint. 
However, I can appreciate Mr Js frustration. His view is that the policy premiums would have 
been paid until when he sold his house in January 2005 and the mortgage redeemed. And 
he questions why he would have only paid the premiums for eight years rather than the 
whole term of the mortgage. He says that what Lloyds has provided isnt sufficient. 
Lloyds has been able to give us a screenshot of its records about the policy. This shows the 
PPI was Last Changed on 23 November 1997 and gives the name of the Income 
Protection Company [] and is followed by the statement Indicator Lapsed/Cancelled. 
Lloyds has also said its equally possible the policy was cancelled before the Last Changed 
date referred to in the screenshot, but because of the lack of clear evidence of that, and to 
be fair to Mr J, it has assumed the last premium was paid in November 1997.
So while I appreciate what Mr J has said, I have to base my decision on the information and 
evidence I do have, however limited, and conclude what I think more likely happened and is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I accept that I cant say for certain 
when the PPI was cancelled. But the information Lloyds has sent me suggests it was 
cancelled no later than November 1997. It may have been cancelled before then. And Mr J 
hasnt been able to provide anything showing he paid premiums after this date. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to assume the last policy premium 
was paid in November 1997. 
I know Mr J will be extremely disappointed with my conclusion about the dates used in the 
redress calculation. He has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint and its clear he 
feels strongly about it. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached 
the decision that I have.
Further drawdown loan
Mr J has referred to a drawdown loan of £10,000 which he questioned may be the cause of 
an increase in the premiums charged for his PPI from £14.30 to £22.46 with effect from 
January 1995. He has commented on the conflicting information he was given by two of 
Lloyds representatives during phone conversations in 2020 about whether there was a new 
PPI policy taken with the additional drawdown loan or whether his then current PPI 
premiums were increased to cover it. Hes not happy that Lloyds doesnt have a reference 
for either the drawdown loan or policy. 
Again, I dont find it surprising Lloyds doesnt have any information about a drawdown loan 
as this was over 25 years ago. But we did ask Lloyds for recordings of the calls or phone 
notes that would have been taken at the time in 2020. But Lloyds doesnt have these. It says 
the only details it does have is of a call confirming that Mr Js preference for communication, 
if the complaint was upheld, was by letter. It said it doesnt have details of any other calls. If the drawdown did happen and was taken with the mortgage account, then it doesnt 
appear illogical that the PPI premiums increased to cover the additional amount. And 
equally, it could have been just an increase in the premiums. However, in either case, it 
seems likely this has been included in the redress calculations already.
Compensatory interest rates used in the redress calculations
Mr J doesnt agree the interest rate of 15% has been used for the pre 1 April 1993 
calculations. The PPI monthly premium was £14.30 from December 1990 until its increase in 
January 1995. Ive checked these figures. As an example, the compensatory interest for the 
first month is shown on the redress calculation breakdown as being £36.15. If a 
compensatory rate of 8% had been used, then this figure would have been £33.81. So, I am 
satisfied the correct rates have been used by Lloyds. 
Mr Js other income protection policy
Mr J gave us details of an Income Protection Insurance policy he took with another provider 
which he said was used as evidence by Lloyds in its consideration of his complaint that he 
didnt need the PPI sold to him by Lloyds and hence his complaint being upheld. However, 
this is with reference to the mis-sale of the policy which has already been upheld by Lloyds  
Lloyds has already agreed it shouldnt have sold him the PPI  so I dont propose to 
comment on it here. 
In conclusion, I do not uphold this complaint. I consider what Lloyds has done in making the 
redress calculations is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint and I do not make any award 
further to that already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman