DRN-2707531
The complaint
Mr L complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (BHII) unfairly rejected 
his claim under his motor insurance policy for theft of his car.
What happened
Mr L had an insurance policy for his car which was underwritten by BHII. His car was stolen 
from his driveway overnight. Mr L reported the theft to the police and to BHIIs claim handler. 
BHII considered the evidence it had obtained, and the police report of the theft, and declined 
the claim. It said Mr L hadnt taken reasonable precautions to protect his car from loss as it 
thought it likely he had left his back door insecure.
Mr L complained to BHII who stated in its final response letter that it wasnt upholding his 
complaint as it considered its enquiries into the circumstances leading up to and surrounding 
the theft of his car had been reasonable and proportionate. It went on to say that it believed 
he had failed to take reasonable precautions to protect his vehicle from loss and/or damage.
Mr L didnt agree so complained to our service. Having considered the police report, Mr Ls 
initial report to BHII and his subsequent statement and the policy document, our 
investigators view was that his complaint shouldnt be upheld. She thought it was 
reasonable for BHII to have concluded it was likely the backdoor to Mr Ls house was left 
open or unlocked when the theft occurred. And as there was a policy requirement to take 
reasonable precautions to protect his car, BHII were reasonable to decline the claim.
Mr L didnt accept this view. He thought it was unfair that BHII could use the exclusion for its 
own benefit without considering the customer. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must state I have considerable sympathy for the predicament Mr L finds himself in, 
and I understand how traumatic being the victim of a burglary is. But I must look at the 
circumstances from an independent point of view, and decide, on the balance of the 
evidence, whether BHII have acted fairly or not in declining his claim.
Some of the evidence relating to the theft and the subsequent insurance claim is 
inconclusive or contradictory. And clearly nobody, other than the thief who sadly hasnt been 
identified, knows exactly what happened. So, Ive made my decision based on what I think is 
more likely than not.
Mr Ls insurance policy has the following general conditions which apply to all sections:
If you do not comply with the General conditions, we may:
1. Cancel your policy
2. Refuse to deal with your claim
3. Reduce the amount of any settlement under the policy
4. Void your policy
5. Charge you an additional premium, or deduct any additional premium due from 
settlement under the policy.
The policy document then goes on to say:
The insurer will only provide cover under this policy if:
you, or anyone else claiming under this policy, has kept to the terms and conditions 
of the policy; 
So Im satisfied that BHII is, under the terms and conditions of the policy, able to decline a 
claim. 
BHII has relied on General condition 12.6:
You or any person in charge of your car must take reasonable precautions to:

Protect your car and its contents from damage or loss.
This means that Mr L had to take reasonable precautions to protect his car. And BHII have 
said he didnt because the keys were left in a place which was visible from outside, and it 
was likely the back door to the house was left open or unlocked. What I now need to decide 
is whether BHIIs use of that exclusion was fair in the circumstances of this case.
The police report concluded that there was no sign of forced entry. And it was mentioned in 
several places, both by Mr L and the officer compiling the report, that the back door may 
have been left unlocked. So in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied that 
BHIIs conclusion that it probably was left unlocked, is a fair one. And it follows that, given 
the keys were visible on the table to someone from outside, its a fair conclusion for BHII to 
come to that Mr L didnt take reasonable precautions to protect his car.
So, although I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Im satisfied it is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this case to allow BHII to rely on the abovementioned policy 
conditions to reject his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman