DRN-2434666
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc, mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1991. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and was in Mr Ss name only. It provided him with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
agree. Mrs S replied in detail to say, in summary, that:
The PPI wasnt presented as optional.
They felt pressured to take the PPI.
The policy wasnt discussed and they werent given any information about the costs, 
benefits and limitations of the policy.
The policy premiums were debited from their joint account, but the policy was in Mr Ss 
name only.
They were a growing family at the time of the application, so their finances were likely to 
be stretched over the longer term. This, and the cost of rising PPI premiums, was not 
considered.
Mr S would have lost his entitlement to state benefits in the event of a successful claim 
on the policy because hed be receiving income from the insurance. And he wouldnt 
have had any national insurance contributions paid for the duration of the PPI payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI was sold nearly 30 years ago so inevitably some of the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling on this matter. Their submissions are 
detailed and substantial and they have raised a significant number of points. I have fully 
considered everything they have told us, but I am not going to respond to every point one of 
the parties has made or to answer every question raised. That isnt because I havent taken 
into account what Mr and Mrs S have said, but because my role is to focus on what I 
consider material to the outcome of the complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI was presented as part of the mortgage application and that they 
thought they had to have it for their application to succeed. Mrs S has provided her 
recollections of what happened at the meeting but, as this happened so long ago, I cant be 
sure exactly what was discussed. So Ive looked at the paperwork that was completed at the 
time. The mortgage application included a separate section about insurance. There were 
various tick boxes to cover endowment, buildings and contents and PPI policies. The form 
does not specifically say that PPI is optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the 
need to tick a box, that it was not a requirement of applying for the mortgage. Although 
neither party has been able to provide copies of the paperwork, Mr S would also have had to 
complete a separate PPI application form and a separate direct debit mandate. 
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Santander made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs S say they felt pressured into taking the PPI. Ive considered this carefully. Mrs S 
recalls that the member of staff was extremely forceful, and shes referred to the wording 
that was used in the mortgage application form. Shes not given us any detail of what the 
member of staff said  and I wouldnt expect her to remember exactly what was said so long 
ago. The mortgage application says, We strongly recommend that you protect your monthly 
mortgage repayments in case of accident, sickness or unemployment. I am not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs S would have felt pressured to buy the policy because of this wording. 
Santander may well have strongly encouraged them to take the PPI, but I cant fairly uphold 
the complaint based solely on Mrs Ss recollections of what happened 30 years ago, 
particularly as shes not clearly told us about anything specific the member of staff did or 
said which amounted to unreasonable pressure.
Santander recommended the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable based on what 
Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time. I say this because:
At the time of the application, Mr S earned significantly less than her husband. Although her 
income was taken into account for the mortgage application, it looks likely that, if she was 
unable to work, Mr S could have covered the mortgage repayments and household 
expenses from his salary. For this reason, the policy was taken out in Mr Ss name only. He 
was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr S told us he would have received up to 12 months pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident. Most likely he would have received six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay. And that he and Mrs S had savings equivalent to at least 
12 months of their income. Theyve been able to provide evidence of their savings at various 
points over the years, but theyve not been able to show exactly what they had in place in 
1991. Which isnt surprising. I can see that around five years after they took the PPI they had 
at least £10,000 in a savings account so I accept its possible that they may have had a 
similar amount in 1991. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss work benefits and for up to 36 months 
for accident and sickness claims. It would have allowed them to use any employee benefits 
to cover other living expenses whilst not working and it would have kept their savings intact 
for their future needs or their original purpose. The PPI also covered Mr S, for up to 12 
months, if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ss home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the 
repayments. So, overall, I dont think their existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable. 
Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Santander says Mr and Mrs S would have been provided with a quote as part of the sales 
process. But I dont think its clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr 
and Mrs S before they agreed to purchase it. I think its possible they werent told how much 
it would cost each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have 
considered whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ss 
decision to purchase the policy. I've found that theyd chosen to take out the policy and 
would have known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. Although Mrs S says they had a young family and that their 
finances were likely to be stretched over the coming years, they would have needed to 
balance this against the protection offered by the policy. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr and Mrs S couldnt afford the cost of the premium. So I think it unlikely they would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mrs S says she was paying for a policy which she could never benefit from, because it was 
in Mr Ss name only. But the benefit was that it would have met their mortgage payments for 
which she was jointly responsible.
Ive taken into account what Mrs S says about Mr S losing his entitlement to state benefits 
and national insurance contributions, but this doesnt make a difference to my conclusion. 
Its likely Mr S would still have been able to claim some benefits if Mr S became 
unemployed. But the policy was designed to provide peace of mind that the mortgage would 
be paid and that Mr and Mrs S didnt risk losing their family home. I think this would have 
mattered more to them than a temporary gap in national insurance contributions. 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them. Following the publicity 
about PPI mis-selling I'm not surprised that Mr and Mrs S believe they would never have 
taken the policy. But PPI can be useful a product in specific situations and just because they 
think now that they wouldn't have taken it, doesn't persuade me that they didn't agree to take 
it at the time. Overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But Santander has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman