DRN-4305254
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed its account. 
T is represented by its director, Mr T.
What happened
T had a business account with Santander.
In November 2022, following a review Santander decided to close the account. Santander 
wrote to Mr T giving him two months notice that he needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements for his company, T. 
Mr T complained to Santander about the closure of the account and asked Santander to 
explain why it no longer wanted T as a customer. Mr T said he suspected Santanders 
decision was based on out of date information about him in the media and because he had a 
previous spent conviction. He said if this is the reason Santander closed Ts account it is 
discriminatory and a breach of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. In response,  
Santander didnt provide Mr T with much information. The bank said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations when it 
had closed Ts account.
Mr T wasnt happy with the banks response and brought Ts complaint to this service. He 
said Santander had treated him unfairly based on what had happened many years ago. He 
said Santanders actions had caused him a great deal of trouble and upset and impacted his 
business. He said he had relied on the account to receive mortgage and rental payments 
and had to go to the trouble of opening new accounts and reorganising Ts finances 
including moving lots of direct debits, which was time consuming and inconvenient. He 
wants Santander to reopen Ts account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed Ts account and had closed it in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr T disagreed. He said Santander has broken the law because it 
closed Ts bank account based on old information about him and his associates and 
because he has a spent conviction.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about Ts complaint. Id like to reassure Mr T 
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed to take it 
on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and Santander have 
said before reaching my decision.
Firstly, I want to address Mr Ts comments about Santander breaking the law. Mr T has said 
that Santander has not taken account of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 when it 
closed Ts account  in other words broken the law. Our service is an informal alternative to 
the courts. It is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether the 
business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. I cant make a finding 
as to whether the law has been broken, and I dont need to in order to decide this complaint. 
So, whilst the law is a relevant consideration, we dont look at complaints in the same way a 
court might. Were able to reach an outcome based on what we believe to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime.
In order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, its not unusual for a financial 
business to periodically review its customers accounts, even if the account holder has been 
a customer for some time. Having looked at all the evidence and information, Im satisfied 
that Santander were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Ts account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
 
Santander is also entitled to close an account just as a customer is entitled to close their 
account with Santander. But before Santander closes an account, they must do so in way 
which is fair and complies with the terms and conditions of the account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions and they state that Santander could close the account by giving at 
least two months notice. Santander has done this, so Im satisfied that they have complied 
with this part.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Santanders reason for closing the account was fair. In 
doing so, I appreciate that Santander are entitled to set their own policies and part of that will 
form their risk criteria. It is not in my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Santander 
should have in place. I can however, while considering the circumstances of individual 
complaints, decide whether I think customers have been treated fairly. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr T has said regarding his spent conviction and the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.  Mr T has explained that he got mixed up in something 
more than a decade ago and received a suspended prison sentence as a result. Hes also 
said that the matter was reported in the media at the time. Mr T says it would be a breach of 
the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 if Santanders decision to close Ts account was 
based on his previous conviction. He says it would also be unfair for Santander to base its 
decision to close the account on out of date media stories about him. 
After considering all the available evidence and information I havent seen evidence to show 
Santanders decision breached the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 or that Santander 
reviewed and closed Ts account for an improper reason. Theres nothing that Ive seen, that 
suggests it amounted to anything other than a legitimate exercise of its discretion. It follows 
then that Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude Santander treated T 
differently because of Mr Ts previous spent conviction and what was reported in the news. 
The reason Santander gave for closing the account is that it was outside the banks risk appetite. That in turn means it can choose who it has a customer relationship with. This is a 
decision that I cant interfere with as it is a commercial business decision.
I understand of course why Mr T wants to know the exact reasons behind Santanders 
decision, other than what hes been previously been told. And I can see that Mr T has asked 
Santander to explain itself on several occasions. It cant be pleasant being told that you are 
no longer wanted as a customer. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what 
triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr T the reasons 
behind the account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to require it to do so.
 
In summary, I understand Mr T will be unhappy with my decision but ultimately Santander is 
entitled to set its own risk appetite. Having reviewed all the evidence and circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Santander has acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account and as such I cant conclude that it has treated T unfairly when it closed its 
account.  So, I wont be asking Santander to reopen Ts account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman