DRN-2310643
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont cover his claim and 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a provisional driving licence. He was involved in an incident when he was driving 
his car without a supervisor present. Admiral declined the claim and cancelled his policy 
because it said he had driven outside the terms of his licence and so breached the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Mr C disagreed as he said he was driving on private land and so he hadnt driven outside the 
terms of his licence. He said his view was supported by a legal opinion. He thought Admiral 
should deal with his claim and reinstate his policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy excluded cover where the driving licence conditions were broken. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably decided that Mr C had driven the car on a road whilst unsupervised and so 
hed breached the licence terms. He thought Mr C understood the policy terms and 
conditions but had breached them. And so he thought Admiral had reasonably declined the 
claim and cancelled the policy. 
Mr C replied providing a second legal opinion that the road he was driving on didnt require a 
full driving licence and so he hadnt breached the policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated by Admirals decision. From what hes told us this 
has had serious financial implications for him and has caused him much personal 
inconvenience. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Mr C has provided detailed 
legal opinions to support his stance. And Ive considered these and the relevant law.
Admiral said that Mr C was driving outside of the terms of his provisional licence and so he 
was in breach of General Exception 1 of his policy which states:
You will not be covered for any liabilities you may have for any of the following:
Any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is:
 driven by you if you do not hold a valid Driving Licence or are breaking the conditions of 
your Driving Licence
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording 
and in the summary or Key Facts document. I can see that it is clearly set out in the policy 
summary as well as the policy booklet. So I think it was sufficiently brought to Mr Cs 
attention for Admiral to reasonably rely on it to decline a claim. 
Admiral said that Mr C was driving his car whilst unsupervised and this breached the 
condition of his provisional driving licence. But Mr C said, supported by a legal opinion, that 
he didnt actually need a licence to drive his car at the time because he was on private land. 
And a driving licence is only required by the relevant law, the Road Traffic Act 1988, for 
driving on highways or roads to which the public has access. 
Admiral countered that although Mr C was driving on a private road, it was publicly 
accessible, and so the Road Traffic Act applied. It said this meant that Mr C was required to 
comply with the conditions of his provisional driving licence. 
I can see that the road Mr C was driving on was privately owned, but I think it was publicly 
accessible. And so I think Admiral reasonably decided that Mr C should have complied with 
the terms of his provisional driving licence and waited until his supervisor was with him 
before driving his car. 
I think its evident from his notification of the claim that Mr C understood the requirements of 
his provisional driving licence and of his policy. And as Mr C broke a condition of his driving 
licence, I think Admiral was entitled by the policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
Admiral then cancelled Mr Cs policy as hed breached a General Condition of his policy. I 
think Admirals entitlement to do this is set out under its cancellation rights. I can see that it 
gave Mr C seven days notice of the cancellation, as required by the policys terms and 
conditions. And so I cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling 
Mr Cs policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman