DRN-2834932
The complaint
Miss H wanted to decrease her loan repayments with Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) 
when she went on maternity leave. Sainsburys agreed new loan terms with a reduced 
monthly repayment but later told Miss H that this shouldnt have been agreed and that she 
didnt qualify for the new terms due to her reduced income. Miss H says that she would like 
the original agreement to be upheld and financial compensation.
What happened
Miss H contacted Sainsburys in October 2019 in relation to her personal loan (taken out in 
August 2017) as she was due to go on maternity leave and wanted to decrease her monthly 
payments due to a reduction in income. Following an income and expenditure assessment, 
Miss H was given a telephone appointment with the underwriters the following day but she 
didnt receive the call despite taking time off of work for this. 
Sainsburys looked into Miss Hs complaint about it failing to call her as agreed. It found that 
Miss H had been let down in terms of service on a number of occasions and paid her £80 by 
way of an apology.
At the beginning of November, Miss H had the call with the underwriters and went through 
her income and expenditure. She was offered reduced monthly payments of £99.63 over a 
term of 139 months. Miss H was happy with these terms and received the documentation in 
the post which she signed and returned as requested. She says that she made plans with 
other debtors based on the new monthly repayments. 
Miss H received a letter informing her there was a problem with the loan and to call 
Sainsburys, which she did. She was eventually reassured that the paperwork was in order 
and so was under the impression that everything was fine, having heard no more from 
Sainsburys. However, when the monthly payment came out in November it was for the 
original amount of £304.96. 
Sainsburys looked into the matter again in relation the original repayment amount going out 
of Miss Hs account. It found that there had been a system error and that nobody had 
informed Miss H which meant she was unaware that the old contract was still in place. 
Sainsburys paid Miss H £35 in respect of the overdraft fees she had incurred and £35 to 
apologise for the poor service. Following this, Miss H was then required to complete the 
application process again to set up the loan.
During this process Miss H was eventually told that there was a problem with the loan as it 
was above the maximum term which the department was able to offer. She was then called 
back by someone else at Sainsburys and told that there was an administrative error and it 
was unsure if the new terms could be agreed. Miss H was contacted by the complaints team 
and then by someone who went through her income and expenditure again. She was told 
that she shouldnt have been offered the new agreement as she would not qualify due to her 
financial circumstances changing. 
Sainsburys says that the original assessment for Miss Hs re-finance request had been 
based on her financial position at the time of the application and hadnt taken account of her 
forthcoming maternity leave and reduced income. The correct information indicated that 
Miss H would only have £34 surplus of income per month, which was less than half of what 
the new loan repayments would be. 
Sainsburys says that, as a responsible lender, it therefore couldnt go ahead with a new 
arrangement which was unaffordable to Miss H. It says that the new arrangement shouldnt 
have been agreed and that, had the reduced income been considered in the first instance, 
the application would have been declined at the time. 
This meant that Miss H needed to remain on her existing loan agreement, which was for a 
higher monthly amount. Sainsburys directed Miss H to its collections team if she was unable 
to meet the repayments and also gave her information regarding other organisations who 
could provide advice if she was in financial difficulty. It paid her £150 compensation to 
apologise in recognition of its error and Miss Hs experience.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and found that Sainsburys should have done more 
to resolve Miss Hs complaint. She found that Sainsburys did do enough to put things right 
regarding the failure to call Miss H at the agreed time and regarding the new agreement not 
being set up properly due to a system error. However, the investigator went on to consider 
what Sainsburys should have done once it was aware that the loan should have been 
declined in the first place. She found that Sainsburys should have done more to help Miss H 
when she indicated that she wouldnt be able to afford the loan repayments once on 
maternity leave.
The investigator said that Sainsburys should set up an affordable repayment arrangement 
for Miss H to be backdated to when the new agreement would have started. She said 
Sainsburys should then refund Miss H if shed paid more than she should have (plus interest 
and any charges). This would put her back in the position she would have been in had she 
received the assistance she needed when the agreement should have been declined. She 
said that she was satisfied that, had the new agreement gone ahead, Miss H would have 
been able to make the repayments. So she didnt think Sainsburys had acted fairly in 
applying negative information to Miss Hs credit file and recommended that this be removed. 
The investigator also recommended that Sainsburys pay Miss H a further £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Sainsburys disagreed with this view so the case came to me to make a decision. It said that 
it did offer Miss H a reduced payment plan in December 2019 when it established that it was 
unable to offer her a refinanced loan, but that Miss H did not want to do this. It said that a 
reduced repayment plan would mean arrears would build every month and would result in a 
credit file impact for each month the plan was in place, as the contractual monthly payments 
are not met. Sainsburys says that had this been in place, the account would likely have 
defaulted by now unless Miss H was in a position to pay back all the arrears that had 
accrued on her loan. It said the fact that Miss H has maintained payments demonstrates that 
she does not want this to happen. 
Sainsburys said that a reduced payment plan (and ultimately a default) would have a 
greater impact on Miss Hs credit file than the two missed payments it has recorded. It said 
these were recorded correctly and give an accurate reflection of what happened therefore 
Sainsburys did not agree that they should be removed. 
My Provisional Decision
In my provisional decision dated 23 April 2021 I set out the following:Having looked at the evidence there are some aspects where I take a different view 
from our investigator. I've explained my reasons further below.
Failure to call Miss H for telephone appointment
Ive first considered what Miss H has said about Sainsburys not calling her at the 
time arranged for her telephone appointment in October 2019. 
I appreciate that this was inconvenient for Miss H as she had taken time off work and 
was keen to discuss the issue in order to reduce her payments before she went on 
maternity leave. However, Sainsburys accepted that she had received a poor service 
in this regard and gave her £80 by way of an apology for the trouble caused. I think 
that this was reasonable in the circumstances and I can see that the call was re-
arranged and took place within a short period of time following this.
Failure to amend the repayment amount after the contract was signed 
Ive looked at what Miss H has said about Sainsburys taking the original repayment 
amount out of her account in November 2019.
I think it was reasonable for Miss H to assume that the reduced payment would be 
taken from her account. She had completed and returned the loan paperwork for the 
new agreement showing the reduced amount and when she contacted Sainsburys it 
also reassured her that everything was fine. Sainsburys did not contact Miss H to 
indicate there was a problem following this. 
Clearly when the higher repayment was taken out of Miss Hs bank account, this 
caused her some distress and resulted in her going into her overdraft as she hadnt 
accounted for the extra amount being taken. However, Sainsburys apologised for the 
poor service in relation to this and gave her £35 in addition to £35 to cover the 
overdraft fees she had incurred. I think that this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Offering the new agreement with reduced repayment terms for which Miss H did not 
qualify 
Ill now turn to the main part of Miss Hs complaint, which is regarding the fact that, 
after being offered a new agreement with reduced repayments and signing the 
contract for this, she was told that she shouldnt have been offered the new terms. 
Whilst I accept that Miss H had signed the contract I dont think it was unfair of 
Sainsburys to have gone back on its decision not to offer the new agreement for the 
reasons set out below.
Before agreeing to an application for credit, businesses need to make sure they lend 
in a responsible manner. To do this they are required to carry out appropriate checks. 
There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But the 
checks need to be borrower-focused and proportionate to the application being 
made. These checks usually include an assessment of whether the person 
requesting credit can afford to make and sustain the repayments, taking account of 
their financial situation and other outgoings.
The reason Sainsburys says it offered Miss H the new arrangement initially was 
because its assessment had been based on her financial position at the time of the 
application rather than taking account of her reduced income when she went on 
maternity leave. Once Sainsburys had carried out an assessment of Miss Hs income and 
expenditure for when she would be on maternity leave, it found that she would only 
have £34 of disposable income per month. In light of this, it would have been 
irresponsible for Sainsburys to have made an agreement which would require Miss 
H to make repayments of almost £100 as these would have been unaffordable for 
her based on the information she provided. So Im satisfied that the new arrangement 
wouldnt have been agreed had Miss Hs reduced income been considered at the 
outset. And for that reason I also cant agree that the agreement be put in place 
retrospectively.
Whilst I accept that Miss Hs existing repayments were for a significantly higher 
amount than they would have been under the new arrangement, those terms were 
based on Miss Hs situation at the time she took the loan in August 2017. Sainsburys 
would not be required to reassess Miss Hs ability to make these repayments 
throughout the loan as a matter of course. However, if Miss H were to fall into 
financial difficulties and be unable to make the repayments, Sainsburys has a 
regulatory obligation to treat her fairly.
What should have happened?
I now need to go on to consider what should have happened at the outset when Miss 
H called to decrease her monthly repayments. This will enable me to decide how to 
address the errors which were made and to put Miss H back in the position she 
would have been in had they not happened. 
Sainsburys says that if the application had been declined initially  as it should have 
been  it would have discussed a suitable repayment plan if Miss H advised she was 
unable to maintain the existing repayments. I can see from the customer notes that 
Miss H contacted Sainsburys at the end of December 2019 looking for assistance as 
she wouldnt be able to afford the repayment going forward due to her forthcoming 
maternity leave and reduction in income. 
During this call Miss H was offered the option of either applying a 30-day hold on the 
account for her to seek financial advice or starting the age out process to ensure the 
burden of having to pay the monthly repayment was removed while she couldnt 
afford to do so. This process would have involved a plan to make reduced (or no) 
payments which were affordable to Miss H. However, this would eventually result in 
the account defaulting if the contractual payments were not kept up to date, which 
Sainsburys says would be likely to have happened within 3-6 months. Any payments 
less than the contractual amount would also be recorded as late payments on Miss 
Hs credit file whilst in a repayment plan.
The call note sets out that Miss H was advised of the potential impact of the options 
on her credit file, her direct debit was cancelled as she could not afford the monthly 
repayments and she was signposted to websites and given details of a debt 
counselling charity. At this stage Miss H opted to have the 30-day hold applied to 
give her more time to figure out the best course of action. Following this, Miss H did 
not ask to go onto a repayment plan and although payments were missed in January 
and February 2020, the account was brought up to date before the March 2020 
repayment.
As set out above, it is my view that, had Miss Hs reduced income been taken into 
account at the outset, the new arrangements wouldnt have been agreed. 
Sainsburys has confirmed that the reduced repayment plan or a 30-day hold would have been the only options available to Miss H if she was unable to meet the 
contractual payments. 
Im not minded to say that Sainsburys should set up a payment plan retrospectively 
to be backdated to when the new agreement would have started and that it should 
refund Miss H if shed paid more than this (plus interest and charges). This is 
because I think it is fair to put Miss H back in the position she would have been in 
had everything happened as it should. So I think if things had happened as they 
should have then Miss H would have been given those two options at the outset 
rather than being offered the new agreement. 
It appears that Miss H chose not to go onto a reduced payment plan when this was 
offered at the end of December 2019 so I think it most likely that she would have 
made the same decision had this been offered when she first contacted Sainsburys 
in October 2019. So I dont think she is in a different position now to that which she 
would have been in had the reduced payment plan been offered at the outset. And 
therefore I dont think Sainsburys needs to do any more in respect of arranging a 
payment plan or refunding any amounts in respect of what has happened since the 
new agreement was discussed. Clearly if Miss H contacts Sainsburys in the future if 
she is in financial difficulties then it will need to consider her circumstances at that 
time in determining payments going forward.
It is my view that once Sainsburys had accurately considered Miss Hs reduced 
income and potential financial difficulties it did act fairly towards her in order to try 
and help her manage her repayments by giving her the option of a reduced payment 
plan (which she didnt take) and a 30-day hold on the account. It also provided her 
with details of other organisations which may be able to help her. 
Our investigator recommended that the missed payment information on Miss Hs 
credit file should be removed as she was satisfied that Miss H would have been able 
to make the reduced repayments had the new agreement gone ahead. I also 
disagree with this. The new agreement should never have been offered so I dont 
think any redress should be based on what would have happened if it had gone 
ahead, rather it should be based on what should have happened. 
Had Miss H gone on a repayment plan when it was offered, this would have been 
recorded on her credit file. Miss H chose not to and wanted to continue making the 
contractual repayments  which appears to have been as she didnt want her credit 
file to be impacted. However, if Miss H was unable to make the contractual 
repayments then it is my view that this should be shown in the credit file as an 
accurate reflection of the repayment history. So I dont think Sainsburys need to do 
anything to amend Miss Hs credit file.
Miss H says that Sainsburys has put a mark against her credit file for late payment 
which has damaged her credit rating. She says this was due to Sainsburys not 
keeping to the new agreement and her not having enough money in the bank as she 
didnt realise. However, Sainsburys has confirmed that the late mark recorded on 
credit file related to missed payments at the beginning of 2020. And for the same 
reasons as above, I dont think this is unreasonable as it accurately reflects the fact 
that Miss H hasnt been able to meet the contractual repayments.
I also set out the following in relation to what Sainsburys should do to put things right:
As set out above, I dont think Miss H is in a different position now to that which she 
would have been in had everything happened as it should in terms of the existing loan. However, I am of the view that the fact that the new arrangement was offered 
and then later declined was a significant error by Sainsburys. Given that the sole 
reason Miss H was asking to re-finance in the first place was because she was going 
on maternity leave and would have a reduced income, it is not clear why Sainsburys 
didnt take into account that reduced income before offering the new loan agreement.  
This was compounded by the history of this case where Miss H was not contacted as 
she should have been at the outset; was told that there was a problem once she had 
sent the agreement back; was then reassured that everything was fine when she 
contacted Sainsburys (when this was clearly not the case); was not told that there 
was a problem and only found this out when the original repayment amount came out 
of her account causing her to go overdrawn; was then required to complete the loan 
application process again only to be told that she shouldnt have been offered a loan 
at the outset. This whole process took a prolonged period of time and caused Miss H 
significant distress as she was already worried about her financial situation  hence 
contacting Sainsburys in the first place.
Miss H, who was heavily pregnant at the time, says that she was signed off work 
early with stress. She says the matter completely ruined the final months of her 
pregnancy and put the health of her and her baby at risk. She suffered with post-
natal depression and has anxiety due to worrying about money. It has also put her 
more into debt as she had made arrangements to pay amounts to other debtors 
based on the new agreement with Sainsburys. Miss H says that she is in arrears 
with her council tax and her credit cards are at the limits and she is only able to afford 
the minimum repayment.  She also says that she has now fallen behind on the loan 
payments again, which has affected her credit report. 
Clearly, Sainsburys is not entirely responsible for Miss Hs financial situation but its 
error had a significant impact on her bearing in mind her situation at the time and the 
background to this case. And I can understand why Sainsburys error in offering the 
loan and then rescinding the offer wouldve been distressing for Miss H. In light of 
that Sainsburys should pay Miss H a further £250 for the trouble and upset shes 
been caused in addition to the sum which has already been paid.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence by 23 May 2021.
Response to my Provisional Decision
Miss H disagreed with my provisional decision. She says that she understands that 
Sainsburys was within its rights to change its mind about the decision but questions why she 
was repeatedly told everything was fine and going ahead as planned. Miss H says that her 
maternity pay did not cover the £305 monthly payment of the loan agreement but would 
have covered the £98 and she would have been £200 better off if the refinance went ahead. 
She says that she cannot believe that having a baby has meant that she cannot now obtain 
credit or obtain a mortgage due to the default on her loan and feels discriminated against for 
having a baby. She says that she wouldnt have been late with the payments if the original 
finance agreement was upheld and asks that the marks on her credit file are removed. 
Miss H has said that she is now back to work so the temporary issue with her Sainsburys 
loan is now over. She believes all the stress and upset this has caused is worth more than 
£250. 
Sainsburys has responded to seek clarification on the amount of the payment suggested for 
distress and inconvenience and has subsequently accepted the findings in the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Following this provisional decision, Miss H has made some further submissions. She says 
that she understands that Sainsburys was within its rights to change its mind about the 
decision but questions why she was repeatedly told everything was fine and going ahead as 
planned. I considered this in my provisional decision and determined that Sainsburys should 
pay a further £250 (on top of the £265 it had already paid for trouble and upset and £35 for 
overdraft fees) in light of the impact of these actions on Miss H.
Miss H says that the provisional decision states that she would not have been any better off 
if the original refinance went ahead. She says her maternity pay did not cover the £305 
monthly payment of the loan agreement but would have covered the £98 and she would 
have been £200 better off if the refinance went ahead.
To clarify, the provisional decision set out that Miss H would not have been in a different 
position now to that which she would have been in had the reduced payment plan been 
offered at the outset. I understand that Miss H would have had to pay less for her monthly 
repayments if a refinance had been agreed. However, this could not be agreed due to Miss 
Hs reduced income. The reference in my provisional decision was to the fact that  had 
Sainsburys not offered the refinance in error in October 2019  all it would have been able 
to offer Miss H was a reduced payment plan (or 30-day hold).
It did offer this in December 2019 and Miss H did not want to enter a reduced payment plan 
(which would have affected her credit rating) at that point. So, in terms of what Miss H 
should have been offered at the outset, I think its unlikely she would have wanted to have a 
reduced payment plan and therefore she would not have been in a different position, had 
this been offered earlier.
In relation to Miss Hs submissions that having a baby has meant that she cannot now obtain 
credit or obtain a mortgage due to the default on her loan and that she feels discriminated 
against for having a baby. I understand Miss Hs strength of feeling in this regard. However, I 
think it is fair to put Miss H back in the position she would have been in had everything 
happened as it should. This service has made enquiries of Sainsburys to ask about all the 
options which would have been available to Miss H had had the refinance not been offered 
incorrectly at the outset. Sainsburys confirmed that the reduced payment plan and 30-day 
hold would have been the only options and that there would have been no option, for 
example, to have offered Miss H a payment holiday on the loan. Although Ive thought 
carefully about Miss Hs personal circumstances, Im not persuaded that she was treated 
unfairly by Sainsburys deciding not to offer this type of concession. And I dont think Miss H 
would have done anything differently had the two available options been offered to her 
earlier as set out above.
Miss H says that she wouldnt have been late with the payments if the original finance 
agreement was upheld and asks that the marks on her credit file are removed. I have 
already considered this in my provisional decision. Unfortunately, as it was not possible for 
Sainsburys to offer a refinance, Miss H was still under a contractual obligation to pay the 
amount she agreed in August 2017 for the full term of the loan agreement. Because she was 
unable to meet these payments, the default in the credit file is an accurate reflection of the 
repayment history and I dont think Sainsburys needs to do anything more in relation to this. 
It is of course open to Miss H to apply for a notice of correction in relation to any adverse 
information on her credit file relating to the loan and why she was unable to make the 
repayments.
I have considered what Miss H has said but this doesnt change my mind about the outcome of this case.  
Putting things right
 In light of the above and my provisional decision, Sainsburys should pay Miss H a further 
£250 for the trouble and upset shes been caused in addition to the sum which has already 
been paid (that is, £550 in total). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint and 
require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Miss H an additional £250 in respect of distress and 
inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman