DRN-4085253
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted her account and 
denied her access to her funds. Shed like to be compensated for the loss.
What happened
Miss R has appointed representatives for this case, but for ease of reading Ill only refer to 
Miss R.
In November 2022 NatWest carried out a review and restricted Miss Rs access to her 
accounts. They did not explain their reasons. She was told shed receive further information 
but didnt. 
Miss R complained to NatWest. The bank replied to say that they were unable to enter into 
discussions about why her account was blocked but were satisfied with their decision to do 
so. They apologised for incorrectly telling her shed receive further information, and for 
setting that expectation. But they reiterated they were not going to discuss the reasons for 
the block any further.
In February 2023 NatWest allowed her to access her current account, but her savings 
account with approximately £38,000 was still blocked.
Unhappy with this Miss R referred her complaint to our service. She said she was seriously 
ill and needed the money to pay essential bills. One of our investigators looked into it but 
was satisfied with the reasons NatWest gave for the account being under review. They said 
in the circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for NatWest to block the account to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They didnt ask NatWest to do anything further.
Subsequent to this Miss Rs account was unblocked, and NatWest have allowed her to 
access the funds in the account. But she remained unhappy with how NatWest had treated 
her. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am very sorry to hear about Miss Rs health. I appreciate that the circumstances of 
this complaint will have made life much more difficult for her, and I can sympathise with the 
difficulties shes faced. But based on the evidence available, I dont see that NatWest need 
to do anything further here. Ill explain why.
NatWest, like all banks and regulated financial firms in the UK, have legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet. Firms have no discretion over these obligations and cant pick and 
choose when to follow them. This can mean in some circumstances they have to stop 
providing banking services such as allowing access to accounts. There is provision made for 
that in the terms of Miss Rs account.
In this case NatWest have supplied our service with some evidence around their decision to 
block Miss Rs account. Although NatWest havent been as candid and open with their 
submissions to our service as Id expect. 
Our rules allow us to treat evidence submitted as confidential if we consider it to be 
commercially sensitive  and in this case Im satisfied this is evidence that should be treated 
as confidential. This means I cant share in detail the reasons with Miss R that NatWest 
blocked her account. But based on the information available to me, on balance Im 
persuaded that it was reasonable for NatWest to block her accounts and was in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations, and the terms of her account.
The current account was unblocked, although I note the bulk of her funds were held in the 
current account. But she could transact on the current account, if she needed to. Based on 
the information available to me, Im satisfied this was reasonable.
I appreciate that Miss R would undoubtedly like to know more, but NatWest arent under any 
specific obligation to discuss this any further with her. They have confirmed they do not wish 
to provide a reason to her, and thats a reasonable stance to take. 
NatWest have accepted that they shouldnt have told Miss R shed receive further 
information about the block, and they apologised for it. I consider that an appropriate 
response to resolve Miss Rs complaint, so Im not asking them to do anything further.
Ive no doubt this has been a tremendous inconvenience to Miss R. At a time when she is 
particularly vulnerable and facing considerable difficulties, I can see how this block would be 
upsetting. But as Ive explained I dont see that NatWest have done anything wrong by 
blocking her account. So, I cant reasonably ask them to compensate her for this. NatWest 
has now confirmed the funds are available for her to withdraw.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman