DRN-3905488
The complaint
Two related companies, which Ill refer to as W and L, complain about the process by which 
their borrowing with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) changed from a LIBOR 
reference rate to a SONIA reference rate, and the additional costs arising. They complain 
that NatWest applied undue pressure to accept the changed terms, provided incorrect or 
misleading information and failed to provide W and L with sufficient alternatives.
Mr Z, a director of both W and L, brings the complaint on the companies behalf. 
W and L have been represented by a third party in bringing this complaint, but I refer to any 
comments from the representative as being from Mr Z or the companies.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
here. In summary:
In January 2020, W and L together took out a LIBOR-based loan over a five-year 
term with NatWest. 
Prior to entering into the loan, NatWest provided W and L with materials explaining 
the planned move away from LIBOR-based lending. 
In January and October 2020, the bank wrote to W and L to set out at a high-level the 
changes which would be happening.
In March 2021, NatWest met Mr Z to explain that, consistent with guidance issued to 
lenders, NatWest was moving to SONIA as its reference rate to replace sterling 
LIBOR. The presentation explained that, to ensure a minimal transfer of value 
between borrower and lender, the new rate would be based on SONIA plus a credit 
adjustment spread (CAS). The bank set out two methodologies available to W and L 
for calculating the CAS: the historic approach and the forward approach.
The rate of CAS under the historic approach was set and published in March 2021, 
so NatWest could supply Mr Z with worked examples which enabled him to see the 
effect of determining W and Ls new rate with this methodology. From July 2021, 
NatWest agreed to provide W and L every month with an estimate of the CAS on a 
forward basis to compare with the historic basis. NatWest offered W and L the option 
of transitioning their loan to a SONIA-based rate prior to 31 December 2021 using 
either methodology for the CAS.
Between July and December 2021, NatWest and W and L continued to engage about 
the options available. In December 2021, W and L transitioned their loan to a SONIA-
based loan.
In July 2021, W and L complained to NatWest. They said NatWest had applied undue 
pressure to Mr Z to achieve a transition of W and Ls loan. They said NatWest had provided 
incorrect or misleading information about the transition, and had failed to assist W and L to 
understand the basis for the rates proposed, or offer sufficient alternatives. W and L said 
that, under the terms and conditions of their agreement with NatWest, in the event of a 
LIBOR rate being unavailable, the bank was obliged to calculate interest at the rate 
calculated by the bank to reflect its costs of funding of the loan, but at no point had NatWest 
provided any information to demonstrate that the alternatives presented met this condition. 
W and L said that they would incur a substantial loss from the forced transfer of their loan. 
NatWest considered the complaint but, in September 2021, it responded saying that it had 
done nothing wrong. It said it had followed the best practice guidance issued by the Working 
Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates (the Working Group), which was established 
to help industry participants navigate the transition. It also said that it had provided W and L 
with significant flexibility by each month giving W and L CAS figures under the forward 
approach and offering the opportunity to switch under either CAS methodology. It explained 
that the SONIA+CAS approach had been widely adopted across the industry and was 
consistent with how NatWest had treated other customers.
Not content with this response, Mr Z brought W and Ls complaint to our service. By this 
time, W and L had transitioned to a SONIA-based rate. Although the rate of CAS secured by 
W and L was more favourable than the historic rate, and more favourable than some of the 
previous forward-rates available, Mr Z said that the overall cost of the loan had still 
increased compared with the previous LIBOR-based cost.
Our investigator considered the complaint but said that, in her view, NatWest had acted 
reasonably in requiring W and L to transition to a loan based on SONIA plus CAS, and had 
followed the guidance which had been issued by both the regulator and the Working Group. 
Although she noted some administrative errors, she did not believe these had resulted in any 
financial loss to W and L.
Mr Z didnt agree so asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between W and L and NatWest, and 
considered all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I 
consider central to this complaint. Ive grouped the complaint points raised by W and L under 
the following four headings: 
Incorrect or misleading information and failure to assist
Undue pressure and failure to provide alternatives
Financial detriment
Other complaint points
I consider each in turn.
Incorrect or misleading information and failure to assistW and L complain that they were not given sufficient and timely information about the 
transition timetable, with information drip-fed and the implications not laid out clearly to 
enable an informed choice sufficiently early.
Ive looked through the correspondence between NatWest and W and L and reviewed the 
information provided. Ive also considered the guidance provided by the Working Group or 
regulators about the transition from LIBOR-based lending. Based on what Ive seen, I think 
the bank provided the information available on a timely basis, initially giving notice at a high 
level of the changes coming, and later giving more detail. When NatWest met with Mr Z in 
March 2021, there was still nine months until the cessation of LIBOR and plenty of time to 
explore options before the window from July 2021 in which to transition. It appears to me 
that NatWest set out these options clearly. I consider separately below W and Ls concern 
about the timing of rate information being provided by NatWest prior to the July transition 
window.
From March 2021 onwards, W and L made several requests to NatWest for the calculations 
underpinning the options presented. W and L wanted NatWest to provide historic 
comparisons so they could assess the alternatives; and challenged NatWest to demonstrate 
that the options satisfied the condition in their loan agreement for a rate to reflect [the 
banks] costs of funding the loan. W and L were concerned that the options presented would 
result in a substantial transfer of value to the bank, so they asked NatWest to evidence that 
wouldnt be the case.
In July 2021, NatWest provided the requested calculations showing historic comparisons. 
Although W and L had requested this information earlier, and it would have been possible for 
NatWest to provide the information earlier using the historic methodology for CAS, it was 
only in July when NatWest could provide a more complete response. Therefore, I do not 
believe NatWest did anything wrong in waiting until July to respond with this information. 
I have also considered whether NatWest should have demonstrated to W and L how the 
options available satisfied the terms and conditions of their loan agreement. I discuss this 
further below in considering the transfer of value from W and L to NatWest.
Overall, while I understand Mr Z wanted more information about the transition, and wanted 
NatWest to set out the options, evaluate them and justify them, I dont think these demands 
were reasonable. The timetable of transition was not within NatWests control and, from what 
I have seen, it acted reasonably with the information it provided to W and L as the process 
progressed.
W and L have also said that, given they are an unsophisticated borrower, NatWest should 
not only have presented the options available but should have advised W and L on which 
option best satisfied their interests. However, I can understand why NatWest did not do this. 
The forward CAS rates available to W and L changed every month between July and 
December 2021, even if the historic CAS rates were fixed. While it was NatWests obligation 
to provide W and L with fair options for transition, and explain those options, I do not believe 
it was obliged to advise W and L on which option to adopt and when.
Undue pressure and failure to provide alternatives
W and L say they were told consistently by NatWest that they would have to transition on 
either 31 July or 31 December 2021. Therefore, when NatWest only provided them with 
calculations setting out their alternatives for July 2021 on 16 July, time was very short to 
make a decision. This position became worse three days later, on 19 July, when NatWest 
informed them that, to transition on 31 July, they would in fact need to sign by 23 July to 
allow time for the changes to be processed. Moreover, NatWest said that it would only provide final rates information on 23 July should W and L wish to go ahead. Mr Z says that 
this amounted to incredible undue pressure.
I cannot be sure what was said in every conversation between NatWest and Mr Z. However, 
I can accept that W and L were under the misapprehension that they would have only two 
opportunities to transition under the forward method for calculating CAS, in July and 
December 2021. But, on 19 July, NatWest clearly resolved this issue by clarifying that W and 
L would have the opportunity to review the options available and transition each month 
through to December 2021. Therefore, although Mr Z might have felt some pressure 
between 16 and 19 July 2021, I believe this would have been short-lived. Moreover, in 
earlier correspondence I can see that NatWest had made clear that 31 July 2021 was only 
the start of the window to transition. I also note that NatWest had clearly signalled to W and 
L that, under the forward method, the applicable rate of CAS would need to be calculated 
just before the transition takes place, so any figures prior to that time could only be 
indicative. So I dont think NatWest acted unfairly in the way it provided information to W and 
L about the transition options available in July 2021.
W and L also complain that NatWest did not provide information until November 2021 about 
what would happen if W and L didnt transition to a SONIA-based rate. They say that, even 
in NatWests response letter to their complaint, the bank states that, to remain operable, the 
loan must transition to a SONIA+CAS rate at the first interest rollover date in 2022, which 
was clearly not correct. This added undue pressure on Mr Z.
While I can see that W and L asked repeatedly what would happen if they didnt transition 
their loan to a SONIA-based rate, I can also see that there was widespread industry 
expectation that borrowers and lenders would reach a consensual agreement about this. 
Through early 2021, there was little guidance available on what the legacy option should be 
and, even in September 2021, NatWest still wasnt in a position to say what option would be 
available if W and L didnt consent to transition as it awaited guidance from the regulator. I 
can see that NatWest could have provided this information to W and L slightly earlier than it 
did in November, but I dont believe this small timing difference would have made any 
difference to the outcome. 
Overall, while I acknowledge that the evaluation of the options available for W and L would 
have caused pressure on Mr Z, and the timescales each month between July and December 
2021 in which he needed to assess information and decide whether or not to proceed with a 
transition would have been tight, I do not believe this was unreasonable. It appears to me 
that the primary cause of the pressure on Mr Z was the cessation of LIBOR and the need to 
transition W and Ls loan to a new rate. This was not something NatWest could alter or for 
which I can reasonably hold it responsible. Moreover, in the specific circumstances affecting 
W and L, I cannot see that, as things turned out, they suffered any loss through the pressure 
set out above. W and L chose not to transition in July 2021 but waited to December 2021 
when more favourable rates were available, and thereby did not end up with the legacy 
option.
Financial detriment
When W and L complained to NatWest in July 2021, it was not clear at what CAS rate W 
and L would eventually transition. However, in the calculations Mr Z requested from NatWest 
to show how W and Ls loan would have fared in 2020 and the first part of 2021 had a 
SONIA+CAS rate been applied, it appeared there would have been a substantial increase in 
cost. Mr Z separately calculated that the proposed SONIA+CAS rate at the time would 
increase the cost of the loan by 25%, and so result in a substantial transfer of value to the 
bank. NatWest explained that the calculations it provided looking back at the first 18 months of W 
and Ls loan had limited value as the Working Group had demonstrated that short-term 
comparisons were less likely to be reflective of the movements between LIBOR and SONIA 
over the full term of a loan. This was a key reason for the Working Groups decision to reflect 
the historic difference between LIBOR and SONIA over a 5-year period. However, the 
calculations from NatWest and those conducted by Mr Z did indicate that, on the basis of the 
rates at that time, the transition would result in W and Ls loan being more expensive.
Mr Z has said that the CAS rate he ultimately secured for W and L in December 2021 was 
better value than the rates offered in July. However, he still believes the overall cost of W 
and Ls loan is now materially more expensive with a SONIA+CAS reference rate than under 
the previous LIBOR-based rate.
Whether or not that is the case will depend over the full term of the loan how the rate of 
SONIA compares with what LIBOR would have been. As LIBOR has now discontinued, we 
will never know. However, the question for me is whether through the process of 
transitioning W and L to a SONIA-based rate, NatWest treated W and L fairly.
Having looked at what NatWest offered W and L, it appears to me that it followed the 
industry-standard guidance developed by the Working Group. The effect of offering these 
rates will no doubt result in some winners and losers compared with what would have 
occurred were LIBOR to have continued; but the Working Group sought to recommend an 
approach to minimise those transfers of value. In my view, NatWest adopted a reasonable 
approach in following this guidance.
Mr Z has pointed out that the regulator did not oblige lenders to offer SONIA+CAS as the 
alternative reference rate to sterling LIBOR, and the overriding objective was to minimise 
any transfer of value. Mr Z has said that W and L should have been offered a SONIA-only 
reference rate, without a CAS, which would have resulted in a more similar cost to W and Ls 
LIBOR rate.
However, NatWest has explained that it wasnt offering SONIA-based loans at the time the 
loan was taken out; and it wouldnt have been fair to transition to a SONIA-only rate given 
SONIA is typically lower than LIBOR and would commonly result in a transfer of value to the 
borrower. 
In my view, while NatWests objective was to minimise any transfer of value to or away from 
W and L, it was reasonable for it to seek to achieve that through following the industry-
standard guidance issued by the Working Group rather than by creating a bespoke transition 
model for W and L. This standard approach was to adopt the SONIA+CAS reference rate. 
NatWest has acknowledged that, as the CAS measures the economic adjustment at a point 
in time (ie the transition date), there is no way to tell whether it will accurately reflect the 
difference between SONIA and what LIBOR would have been over the full term of the loan; 
but I think NatWest was reasonable in using the two supported methodologies to calculate 
the CAS at the point of transition, either looking back over 5 years or, for transitions pre-
cessation, using the market spread for the two rates to loan maturity. I acknowledge that the 
recommendations from the Working Group were only guidance so NatWest could have done 
things differently for W and L, but I dont believe NatWest acted unreasonably in following 
this guidance and so in transitioning W and L as it did.
Mr Z has also said that NatWest has not complied with the terms of its loan agreement, 
which obliged NatWest to provide W and L with an alternative rate which meets its costs of 
funding. NatWest has not sought to respond to this point with any of its own calculations, but 
it appears to me that, as the Working Group considered SONIA+CAS to replicate, as far as 
possible, LIBOR, the intention was that, across the industry, transfers of value would be minimised. Therefore, in following the industry-standard guidance in transitioning W and Ls 
loan, I believe NatWest applied a reasonable approach by which to provide W and L with an 
alternative rate which meets its costs of funding, as required in the terms and conditions of 
its loan agreement. 
Mr Z has pointed out that, were W and L to have avoided the need to transition by switching 
away from their existing loan, they would have incurred a 1% charge. I can appreciate why, 
in the context of being dissatisfied with the options presented by NatWest, this would have 
felt unfair. However, at the time when W and L took out their loan, a SONIA-based rate 
wasnt available; and NatWest did explain clearly to W and L in advance that LIBOR was 
ceasing and that a transition to another reference rate would be required within the life of the 
loan. In my view, it is reasonable that NatWest would charge an arrangement fee for an early 
termination of the existing loan and a switch to a new loan product. Moreover, I note that as 
this W and L didnt choose this option, no arrangement fee was actually incurred, so W and 
L didnt suffer any loss.
Other complaint points
Mr Z has raised a few other points of complaint which I consider here.
Administrative errors
NatWest has made a few administrative errors as it has engaged with W and L. For 
example, it has on occasion addressed Mr Z incorrectly. However, the bank has apologised 
for this and, while frustrating for Mr Z, given no loss has been suffered, I dont believe any 
further action is required.
In late May 2021, NatWest sent a document by email, which should have gone to Mr Z but 
went instead to another director of W and L. This director was on the bank mandate for W 
and L but had not been involved in discussing W and Ls loan with NatWest. Had this email 
been sent to Mr Z, he would have learnt earlier about the options available for W and L to 
transition their loan at the end of July. 
In my view, it would clearly have been better for this email to go directly to Mr Z, who was 
representing W and L with regard to the loan. However, it was sent to another director on the 
mandate; and while I can appreciate that not being aware of this letter until July amplified the 
feeling of pressure on Mr Z, I dont believe it resulted in any financial loss to W and L. 
Therefore, I dont believe NatWest need take any further action about this.
Mr Z has pointed out that, in July 2021, when NatWest amended the agreement to identify 
both borrowers (W and L), it also made several other material changes to the agreement, 
which it didnt bring to the attention of W and L. This was a clear oversight which, in the 
context of the tight deadlines being given for responses, caused Mr Z to lose confidence in 
the bank. However, again, while I can appreciate the frustration this caused Mr Z at the time, 
I dont believe there was any financial loss to W and L, and the changes were identified 
before any agreement was reached later in the year. Therefore, again, I do not believe 
NatWest need take any further action.
Distress to Mr Z
Mr Z has said that the events described in this complaint caused him to suffer considerable 
stress. However, the complainants in this case are W and L which are companies and, as 
companies, they are unable to feel distress. Therefore, I cannot award anything to W and L 
for this.Inconvenience and cost of professional fees for W and L
Mr Z has also complained about the inconvenience caused to W and L by NatWests actions 
and the costs they incurred in solicitors fees, not least to address the concerns about 
NatWest. However, NatWest made it clear to W and L that transition was going to happen 
before they took out the loan in January 2020, and the process was always going to involve 
a significant investment in time from them. Given this was an industry-wide regulator-led 
initiative, I do not believe I can reasonably hold NatWest responsible for this. Having 
reviewed all the correspondence, I believe NatWest provided W and L with regular updates 
based on the information available at the time, and I do not believe that the administrative 
mistakes made by NatWest caused W and L any financial loss or caused W and L to be 
required to invest significantly more time in the process. Therefore, I do not believe NatWest 
need take any further action. I also note that W and L chose to appoint professional advisers 
to help them through the transition of their loan, and to pursue their concerns about 
NatWest, but this was their choice. Given my findings above about the mistakes made by 
NatWest, I do not believe there is any basis for requiring it to cover professional costs 
incurred by W and L.
I am very much aware that Mr Z will be disappointed with this decision given the time, effort 
and cost which has been required of W and L and their advisers to transition their loan, and 
to pursue this complaint. However, for the reasons set out, I do not believe there is a fair 
basis for requiring NatWest to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W and L to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman