DRN-4157008
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded missed payments on his credit file 
incorrectly. He says this adversely affected his credit file for a number of months and 
resulted in his application for finance with another provider being declined causing him 
significant distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr W was provided with a loan by HSBC in 2020. In December 2021 he contacted HSBC as 
he was struggling with his finances. In April 2022, an income and expenditure form was 
completed with Mr W and a further assessment was completed in July 2022. Following this a 
three-month payment plan was set up. Mr W adhered to the payment plan and received a 
letter dated 14 October 2022 saying that his account would be treated as being up to date 
and that his credit file would be amended to reflect this.
In February 2023, Mr W applied for a loan with another credit provider. His application was 
declined due to missed payments on his credit file. Mr W says that HSBC had incorrectly 
recorded the missed payments and due to this he wasnt able to acquire a mobility scooter 
causing him significant inconvenience and distress. Mr W also complained that HSBC hadnt 
provided the reasonable adjustments it should have to assist him when he was trying to deal 
with this issue.
HSBC accepted that a mistake had been made as it hadnt amended Mr Ws credit file as it 
should have. It apologised for this. HSBC also apologised that Mr W didnt feel the agent he 
spoke to understood the seriousness of the situation and didnt take into account the 
adjustments he needs. Due to the mistakes made, HSBC said in its final response letter 
dated 10 March 2023 that it would remove all adverse information relating to July, August, 
September and October 2022 from Mr Ws credit file. It also offered to provide a letter 
explaining the mistake that was made if helpful. It confirmed Mr Ws customer care notes 
informed its agents of the reasonable adjustments that should be made and said feedback 
had been provided. Due to the distress and inconvenience Mr W had been caused it offered 
to pay him compensation of £750.
Mr W didnt consider the compensation offered sufficient given the upset and distress he had 
been caused. He informed HSBC that he didnt accept its offer but the compensation was 
then paid into his account without his authority. Mr W contacted HSBC about this and asked 
for his complaint to be reopened and this issue to be included. This happened and a further 
letter was sent to him dated 14 March in which HSBC said that it was able to compensate a 
consumer within a certain limit without authority and that this wouldnt affect his rights to 
refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr W wasnt happy as the letter 
was from the same agent who he was complaining about in regard to making the 
compensation payment when he had rejected this. He contacted HSBC again and his 
complaint was reopened. He said he had lost £3,000 due to the issues as well as being 
caused distress and inconvenience and so compensation of £3,500 was reasonable. 
HSBC issued a further final response letter dated 29 March 2023, in this letter it noted that 
as well as the amendments to the credit file noted in the previous response letter missed 
payments for May and June 2022 had also been removed. It didnt agree that compensation 
of £3,500 should be paid and instead thought its offer of £750 was reasonable.
Mr W didnt think that HSBC had done enough to resolve his complaint and he referred it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator thought that the actions HSBC had taken were reasonable. He didnt think it 
was required to do anything further in resolution of the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt accept that HSBC had dealt with his complaint fairly and said it 
had failed on several occasions to make reasonable adjustments. He said he had provided 
evidence from the loan provider to show that his application was declined due to the 
misreporting by HSBC. He said this issue caused him financial damage of £3,000 and that 
he had spent lots of time trying to resolve this issue. 
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting the issues Mr W has experienced with HSBC have been for him. 
I note the additional information he has provided since our investigator has issued his views 
and I have taken all this into account. Mr W has rightly identified that my role is to ensure I 
take all relevant laws and regulations into account but that my decision is based on what I 
consider fair and reasonable given the individual circumstances of the complaint. Mr W has 
raised many issues and while I may not have provided detailed comments on all of these, I 
can assure him I have taken all the evidence into account and my decision is focused on the 
key elements of the complaint. 
The underlying issue that gave rise to this complaint is that Mr W believed his credit file 
would be updated following the letter he received in October 2022, as he had kept to the 
terms of his payment plan, but this didnt happen. It was only when he applied for finance 
from another provider that he realised the situation. Mr Ws complaint is about this mistake 
and also that HSBC didnt apply the reasonable adjustments it should have when dealing 
with him. I have dealt with both of these parts of his complaint separately as well as 
considering the fair amount of compensation.
Failure to update Mr Ws credit file  
When Mr W contacted HSBC about the issue with his credit file, it acknowledged that a 
mistake had been made. When a mistake has been made, we would expect the business to 
put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the mistake not happened. 
And where appropriate to pay compensation. In this case HSBC removed the adverse 
information from Mr Ws credit file for July, August, September and October 2022 as should 
have happened in October 2022. It also said that missed payments recorded in May and 
June 2022 had been removed. HSBC acknowledged that Mr W had been declined finance 
and so if he made another application this would result in an additional search appearing on 
his credit file. Because of this it offered to provide a letter explaining the situation. 
Given the amendments that have been made to Mr Ws credit file and the offer of a letter 
explaining the mistake, I find that HSBC has put Mr W back in the position he would have 
been had the correct action been taken in October 2022 (and potentially a better position due to removal of adverse information from May and June 2022). Therefore, I find it has 
done enough in regard to this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Reasonable adjustments
Mr W has complained about HSBC not making reasonable adjustments when dealing with 
him and noted its actions with reference to the Equality Act 2010. I should first explain that 
we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide 
whether or not HSBC is in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to 
do this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. 
HSBC has confirmed that it has a customer care needs marker on Mr Ws account which 
notifies all colleagues of the reasonable adjustments to consider when assisting him. I have 
noted the comments on Mr Ws customer care notes and have listened to the calls provided. 
On these Mr W explains how he has been treated and how he feels the seriousness of his 
complaint wasnt acknowledged. This is disappointing and on the call with the agent after his 
complaint was raised, I find that the agent did understand the issues Mr W raised and took 
these seriously. The agent said that feedback would be provided to the other agents about 
how Mr W had been treated. Mr W shouldnt have to raise a complaint in order to have a 
reasonable level of service and his reasonable adjustments reflected in how he is treated, 
and I have considered this as part of my consideration of the compensation. In this case, I 
think after raising the complaint HSBC did say feedback would be provided and the impact 
on him would be fully considered which I find reasonable. 
Compensation
HSBC offered to pay Mr W £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused. I understand that Mr W doesnt think this is sufficient. 
Mr Ws application for a £3,000 loan was declined. Mr W has said this was a financial loss, 
but I cannot say not being provided with finance resulted in him suffering a financial loss. 
Any finance he might have been provided would have needed to be repaid and so I cannot 
say that Mr W has lost £3,000 as a result of the decline in his application. A cost that could 
arise would be if the impact on his credit file meant credit would be provided at a higher rate 
but as Mr Ws credit file has been amended and HSBC has offered to provide a letter 
explaining the situation, I find that reasonable actions have been taken to mitigate this.
While I do not find a financial loss has been incurred, the issue has caused Mr W distress 
and inconvenience. Mr Ws finance application was to buy a mobility scooter and without this 
he hasnt been able to get out and about and has been reliant on others. I can understand 
how upsetting and frustrating this must be for him. I also agree that more could have been 
done in regard to the reasonable adjustments to assist Mr W when he raised his complaint. 
Because of this I agree that compensation is required and that this needs to reflect the upset 
he has been caused.
I have taken into account the actions HSBC took when it was made aware of the issues with 
Mr Ws credit file and the time taken to get this amended. I have also thought about the 
wider impact this delay in accessing finance for the scooter will have meant. Taking all this 
into consideration, I think the £750 offered by HSBC is reasonable. 
Mr W has also complained that HSBC paid the compensation amount of £750 into his 
account without his permission and after he had made contact to say that he wasnt 
accepting the compensation amount. A letter was then sent in response to this issue from 
the agent who had made the payment. I understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr W as he then needed to make further calls to get his complaint reopened. However, as 
the complaint was reopened, and this issue didnt prevent Mr W from taking his complaint 
further I do not find that additional compensation is required.
Taking all of the above into account, while I understand that Mr W wont be happy with my 
decision, in this case I think the actions taken by HSBC and compensation offered are 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that actions taken by HSBC UK Bank Plc to remove the adverse 
information from Mr Ws credit file and provide a letter explaining the situation if requested, 
and its payment of £750 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused is 
reasonable. I do not require it to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman