DRN-3484894
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him after he lost money to an 
investment scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 19 April 2022. Ive copied the content of that 
document below.
Mr M has explained that he was checking his emails and there was an advertisement on the
side of his email screen for a cryptocurrency investment. As Mr M uses a reputable email
account service, he assumed that any advertisements displayed on the platform would be
legitimate. He therefore clicked the link and left his contact details.
Mr M says he researched the company advertised and found a professional looking website
and no negative reviews, so had no reason to believe the company wasnt legitimate. Mr M
received contact from an individual claiming to work for the investment company who would
trade on his behalf. He initially paid £250 by card payment and was told he had made £1,500
profit. Mr M says he asked for £300 to be returned, which he received immediately, although
his bank statements suggest the payment received was £74.09. He therefore made further
bank transfers, which for ease Ive referenced in a table below. It is these transfers that Mr M
has made a complaint about:
Date Payment value Further comments
28 October 2020 £5,000 Stopped by HSBC for checks before 
release
29 October 2020 £5,263
31 October 2020 £5,000 Stopped by HSBC for checks  Mr M 
decided to cancel the payment before it 
was processed
2 November 2020 £5,168
4 November 2020 £15,136
9 November 2020 £5,056 Mr M calls HSBC to cancel this payment 
but it has already been processed
12 November 2020 £5,058
23 November 2020 £16,012 Funded by a HSBC loan
Mr M says after having made the first two bank transfers, he received £1,300 back in profits,
but from his bank statements I can see he actually received a pay out of £663.05.
When Mr M attempted to make the first bank transfer of £5,000, HSBC stopped the payment
to complete fraud checks. Having listened to the call Mr M had with HSBC, I understand Mr
M confirmed the payment was to invest in cryptocurrency, that this was the first big
payment he was making and that hed been with the company for over a month. Mr M
explained he was having a go and he wont be investing any more. HSBC asked if he was
absolutely sure about this company and Mr M confirmed hed checked them on the internet
and that it was him who had made the initial contact with the investment company. On this
basis, HSBC released the payment. Mr M then made the second transfer of £5,263 the
following day.
Two days later, Mr M tried to make another bank transfer to a different payee for £5,000 but
this was again stopped by HSBC for further fraud checks. Having listened to the call, I
understand the advisor asked Mr M a series of security questions which Mr M was unable to
answer, being away from home. When told he hadnt passed security, Mr M insisted the
payment had to go through that day. Mr M was told to call later that day when he was at
home, which he did. In this call, Mr M explained the previous advisor had told him the
payment might be a fraud, and while he confirmed to the advisor it wasnt, he asked the
advisor to cancel it so that he wont have to worry about it anymore. He confirmed hed
make the payment again on the following Monday. That Monday, Mr M made another
payment to the scammer for £5,168.
Later that week Mr M made a further payment to the scammer for £15,136 and then another
payment for £5,056 a few days later. After making this payment, Mr M called HSBC and said
he wanted to cancel it as he thought hed been scammed. When asked why, Mr M confirmed
hed just been on his computer and his shares had all been wiped off. He said his friend
also told him its a scam which put him in this frame of mind. The HSBC advisor explained
the payment couldnt be recalled but that they would put Mr M through to another
department. However, the call with Mr M cut off before he was transferred through.
Three days later, Mr M made another transfer towards the scam for £5,058. Around a week
later he also took a loan out with HSBC for £16,000, and transferred £16,012 to the
scammer in the days that followed. Mr M has said the loan was taken out by the scammers
on his laptop, with his authority, the reason for the loan marked as home improvements. Mr 
M says he felt uncomfortable about having lied to the bank, so the following morning called
them to try and stop the payment. Mr M says he was given misleading information about
whether or not the payment could be stopped, before it was confirmed that the payment
couldnt be recalled. Realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr M raised a fraud claim with
his bank.
HSBC reviewed Mr Ms claim but declined a refund. It said that when speaking to Mr M, he
appeared to recognise the risk involved in the payments he was making. HSBC also noted
that personal loans arent permitted for high-risk purposes such as share dealing. However it
did offer £200 compensation to acknowledge that it couldve provided a better service when
Mr M called to recall the final scam payment.
Mr B disagreed with HSBC so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators
considered the complaint and upheld it. He considered that HSBC didnt go far enough in its
initial questioning with Mr M to assure itself Mr M wasnt falling for a scam, despite
cryptocurrency scams being prevalent. The investigator considered that had Mr M been
warned about such scams, he wouldnt have continued with the payments. The investigator
considered Mr Ms actions during the scam were reasonable, based on having received
profits, being given an account to monitor investments and having been speaking to a
knowledgeable and apparently professional investment advisor.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. To summarise some of the key
points it disagreed with, HSBC said that:
Mr M caused, or at least contributed, to his own losses  it noted that Mr Ms friend
had been able to identify this was a scam after what appears to have been a brief
conversation
Mr M didnt do enough checks to verify this was a genuine company and thatsuccess stories from the scammers website are not reliable sources. As Mr M was
not an experienced cryptocurrency investor, HSBC considers Mr M shouldve
proceeded with more caution.
8% interest is not appropriate and should be awarded at the account rate, save any
redress on the final payment funded by a loan.
The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I intend to partially uphold
this complaint. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I must take that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of
its customer.
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill,
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations
(BBA) February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable
circumstances); and,
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam
(something also recognized by the British Standards Institutes October 2017
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved
in the development of).
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr M, or whether it should have done more than it did.Mr M accepts he authorised the transfers himself. HSBC therefore had an obligation to
follow his instructions. Nonetheless, as Ive noted above, there are some situations in which
HSBC should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding these
transactions. I consider that as a matter of good practice, HSBC shouldve been on the
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. Ive thought about what HSBC could
therefore reasonably have had knowledge of at the time these payments were made.
HSBC called Mr M following the first attempted bank transfer to the scammers. I think this
was the right thing for HSBC to have done, considering the value of the payment was out of
character for Mr M. While HSBC made some enquiries about the payment, I dont think it
went far enough to establish whether Mr M was at risk of financial harm, particularly
considering Mr M openly told HSBC that the payment was towards cryptocurrency  an area
frequently targeted by scammers. Had HSBC asked further questions, I think it wouldve had
sufficient concerns that Mr M was at risk of financial harm from fraud and had it provided
advice on these types of scams, I dont think Mr M wouldve proceeded with the payment. I
say this because Mr M had made one payment already to the scammer, which was an
international payment, and had been told hed made significant profits in a short timeframe,
some of which hed received back. While to an inexperienced investor this may add to the
legitimacy of a story, I think HSBC shouldve been able to identify that an international
payment, promises of quick, significant returns and then requests for further bank transfers
are hallmarks of these types of scams and had it provided Mr M with advice on this,
wouldve caused Mr M to doubt the legitimacy of the company.
As HSBC failed to intervene on this payment, and as I think that made a difference here, I
think HSBC is fully liable for reimbursing Mr M the funds he lost in this transfer. I think at this
point Mr M hadnt been negligent in making the payment  I say this because Mr M had
initiated contact himself with the company in question, had initially invested a small amount 
to trial with and had valid reasons to think it was legitimate based on receiving returns.
However Im not persuaded the same can be said for all subsequent payments.
After attempting to make the third payment for £5,000 on 31 October 2020, which was
stopped by HSBC for further checks, Mr M called HSBC and asked to cancel it so that he
wouldnt have to worry about it anymore. Ive asked Mr M why he decided to cancel this
payment, what had worried him at this point and what then reassured him to continue
making payments days later. Mr M confirmed he is adamant he did not try to cancel this
payment and that it wasnt blocked by HSBC. While I appreciate these events happened
some time ago and Mr M may not recall the details of each individual payment, I have
listened to the call that took place between Mr M and HSBC relating to this particular
payment which is contemporaneous evidence. The HSBC advisor confirms the payment
value and payee, which correspond to the attempted (and cancelled) payment from 31
October 2020 so Im satisfied that HSBC stopped this payment for further checks and that
Mr M then decided to cancel the payment before it was released.
I therefore think that after this point, Mr M had some concerns about the legitimacy of the
payments he was making. Mr M also demonstrated he had concerns about the investment
on 9 November 2020 when again he called HSBC requesting to cancel a payment, advising
his account had been wiped and that his friend had told him it was a scam. However Mr M
continued to make a further two payments to the fraudster after this point. As Mr M cant
recall this phone conversation, its not clear why he proceeded to make further payments. Mr
M initially told us that throughout the scam he was led to believe his profits were increasing 
the final £16,000 payment being commission to release his profits. In later testimony, Mr M
said his advisor told him he was losing money  and the £16,000 loan was to pay back
temporary bonuses the scammers had applied to his account. Either way, it seems Mr Ms
earlier concerns about the investment had continued to build, and yet he decided to proceed
anyway in fear of losing money hed invested so far.As Mr M had concerns from 31 October 2020 onwards, but he decided to proceed in spite of
these, I think he should be held jointly liable for these losses, with HSBC refunding 50% of
the losses he incurred to acknowledge it also couldve done more to stop the scam.
HSBC has suggested that applying 8% simple interest is not appropriate and that interest
should be awarded at the account rate. Given the average costs of borrowing over time, it
has long been our approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being deprived of
funds and Im satisfied its fair to apply it in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought about whether the compensation HSBC has awarded for the service it
provided was fair. I appreciate HSBCs actions may have temporarily given Mr M hope that
more could be done to retrieve his money  but as Mr Ms payment transfer was irreversible
by this point, I dont think this error had a financial impact on Mr M  and I think the £200
already awarded by HSBC is fair to acknowledge the disappointment the unclear
communication caused.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr M, being a reduction in redress to what was
previously recommended. But in all of the circumstances of the complaint, I think this is a fair
outcome to reflect both partys responsibilities.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to partially uphold this complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc to
refund Mr M:
100% of the first two successful bank transfers Mr M made (totalling £10,263), with a
deduction of £737.14 for profits Mr M received back.
50% of bank transfers three to seven Mr M made to the fraudster
8% simple interest from the date Mr M made these payments to the date of
settlement.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M accepted the decision and asked for clarification on whether HSBC are being held 
liable to refund the interest he paid on the loan and to remove any adverse credit information 
on his file. I explained I am not awarding further redress to cover Mr Ms loan interest as I 
consider 8% simple interest is fair across all payments, to holistically acknowledge Mr M 
being out of pocket from the scam. As HSBC wasnt given an accurate reason for taking out 
the loan, and Ive concluded that Mr M was partly liable at the point he requested the loan, I 
also dont think HSBC needs to remove any adverse credit information on Mr Ms file.
HSBC didnt provide any further comments following my provisional decision.
As neither party has presented any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings, and I remain of the view that this complaint should be 
partially upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
refund Mr M:
100% of the first two successful bank transfers Mr M made (totalling £10,263), with a
deduction of £737.14 for profits Mr M received back.
50% of bank transfers three to seven Mr M made to the fraudster
8% simple interest from the date Mr M made these payments to the date of
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman