DRN-2641875
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Tradex Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor trader insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought a motor trader insurance policy through a broker who Ill call C. C was 
authorised by Tradex to communicate with Mr G on its behalf.   For ease, Ill refer only to 
Tradex in this decision. 
Mr Gs policy was cancelled as Tradex had been notified of claims for several vehicles which 
hadnt been removed from the policy, in a timely manner, after they were sold. A letter was 
sent to Mr G letting him know the policy was to be cancelled and gave him seven days 
notice of this. 
Mr G says he didnt receive this letter and only found out the policy had been cancelled and 
as he called about a separate matter. He said he had tried to remove the vehicles but there 
were technical issues with the electronic portal.
Mr G complained, Tradex looked into the complaint but said it hadnt done anything wrong. It 
was entitled to make the decision to cancel the policy and it let Mr G know this in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. It said it couldnt explain why Mr G had not received the 
letter. Mr G was unhappy with Tradexs response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  She was 
satisfied Tradexs cancellation of the policy was in line with the terms and conditions of it. 
She also said she wasnt persuaded by the screen shot Mr G had provided of the problems 
he experienced with the portal, as it wasnt dated and in addition, it shows an incorrect 
vehicle registration number.
Mr G remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Having looked at the policy terms and conditions, it allows Tradex to cancel the policy 
if the terms and conditions of it arent met.  It is a requirement of the policy that the 
Motor Insurance Database (MID) and policy be kept updated. Being mindful of the 
type of policy this is, I have taken this to mean vehicles should be added and 
removed as soon as they are purchased or sold. 
Tradex has provided evidence to this service of several claims that were registered 
with it for vehicles that had been sold by Mr G but not removed from the MID or his 
policy. I think it has therefore acted in line with the policy terms when it decided to 
cancel Mr Gs policy.
Mr G has said he did try to comply with the policy terms and conditions, but there 
were technical issues updating the portal. Ive looked at the evidence Mr G has 
provided however it is undated and therefore Im unable to confirm this took place 
around the required date for the vehicle in question. I also note the vehicle 
registration number was wrong, so this may explain why Mr G had difficulties. 
While I accept it is possible Mr G had issues removing the vehicle in question, the 
policy wasnt cancelled on the basis of one vehicle alone. There were several that 
werent removed in a timely manner, and if Mr G was having issues with all of these 
vehicles, I dont understand why he didnt raise this sooner or contact Tradex. 
As required by the policy, Tradex sent a seven-day notice of cancellation letter to the 
address held for Mr G. Ive checked this and can see the letter was correctly 
addressed. I cant say why it wasnt delivered to Mr G but I cant hold Tradex 
responsible for the actions of unrelated third parties. 
I realise it would have come as a shock to Mr G to be told the policy has been 
cancelled, however having review everything I dont think Tradex has acted 
incorrectly.  It cancelled the policy as it was entitled to do under the terms and 
conditions, and it sent the required notice to Mr G.
There is an outstanding claim on the policy and therefore Mr G isnt currently entitled 
to any refund. In such circumstances, an annual premium is due in full. Should this 
change once the claim is finalised, I would expect Tradex to let Mr G know.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Tradex Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman