DRN-2391968
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about a guaranteed bond that she was sold by a predecessor 
scheme of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in 1998. She says it was mis-sold.
Mrs T is represented in her complaint by a complaint management company (CMC).
  
What happened
In June 1998, Mrs T invested £10,000 in a guaranteed bond. The investment was in 
place for five years, at which point it returned only Mrs Ts initial capital.
The CMC complained to Aviva on behalf of Mrs T. It has said that the UK stock market 
didnt perform well enough during this period, for the bond to provide a return. The CMC 
has argued that this was foreseeable and as such the investment was mis-sold to Mrs T.
Aviva has said that they unfortunately do not have any point of sale documentation 
relating to this, due to the length of time that has passed. They have said that there isnt 
sufficient evidence to conclude that this policy wasnt suitable for Mrs T.
Mrs T remained unhappy and so the CMC brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review on her behalf. Our investigator looked into it but he didnt think it was 
one that he could uphold. He said that based on the limited information available, he felt 
that the policy recommended was a suitable one for Mrs Ts circumstances at the time.
The CMC responded to say that the performance would have needed to exceed what the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA, now the Financial Conduct Authority FCA) believed was 
realistic at the time, for the bond to provide a return for Mrs T. They also said that the base 
rate at the time was high and so a deposit account should have been recommended 
instead. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
When considering a complaint, I am deciding if the business clearly did something wrong or 
made a mistake, not whether they might have done things differently considering hindsight 
(such as a different recommendation). In this case, I am satisfied that the advice given at 
the time was suitable.
Firstly, it is important to note that this advice took place over 20 years ago. As such, and in 
the absence of key point of sale documentation, I cant reach any definitive conclusions 
about what was said. Aviva are not required to keep documentation for more than six years 
after an account is closed. And the CMC hasnt provided anything that Mrs T received at 
the time of the sale.
Without a fact-find or suitability report, I cant be sure of Mrs Ts objectives at the time. 
However, I believe it likely to have been capital growth. The investment was made up of 
money from inheritance, after outstanding debts had been cleared. So, its reasonable 
that she would want to put this aside for growth.
The CMC has stated that Mrs T required greater access to her funds, as I believe this 
amount needed to remain invested for five years. However, I havent seen enough to 
conclude that Mrs T wasnt in a position to tie this money up for that amount of time. 
She seems to have left the investment for the full period and there is nothing I have 
seen recorded that shows a personal objective within the first five years. She also had 
approximately £9,000 in the bank and was recorded as having paid off any debts.
The CMC has also stated that Mrs T should have taken less risk than this investment 
exposed her money to as it was made up of over 50% UK equities. Whilst I acknowledge 
that Mrs T appeared to have been an inexperienced investor at the time and with a modest 
income and only a short period until her projected age of retirement, the initial investment 
was guaranteed if it remained invested for the five years. As such, I am not satisfied that 
the risk here was too great for Mrs T.
The CMC has also said that when this investment was taken out, base rates were about 
7.5% and so Mrs T should have been advised to put her money into a deposit account. 
However, I dont agree with this. Over the medium-term stock market-linked investments 
have significantly outperformed deposit account returns even taking account of the 
periodic upheavals in the markets.
Further to this, I dont think Mrs T shouldve been advised to take the most cautious 
possible option of keeping money in a risk-free deposit account. I also dont think she 
would have wanted to. With approximately £9,000 in the bank separately when she sought 
this advice, I think she was in a strong enough financial position to be able to take some 
risk with this investment. She was also recorded as making a joint investment a few years 
later in another guaranteed bond.
In summary, I dont conclude that Aviva did anything wrong with this advice. With hindsight, 
a deposit-based savings account may have shown a better return but that wasnt to be 
known at the point of sale. I am also satisfied that Mrs T didnt want to take any less risk 
than this presented or needed greater access to these funds.
  
My final decision
My final decision, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman