DRN-3633390
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt provide the service 
it should have regarding the management of his ISA. 
What happened
Mr B opened a cash ISA in October 2017 with a bank. This product was later transferred to 
Virgin Money when Virgin Money became part of the same banking group. Following the 
maturity of Mr Bs ISA, it was transferred to different ISA products automatically. Mr B says 
that he didnt receive renewal instructions and he isnt happy with the product transfers that 
were made. He raised a complaint with Virgin Money in January 2022 but didnt receive a 
final response letter until May 2022. 
Virgin Money said that Mr B opened an account which included terms saying that on the 
ISAs maturity unless Mr B told it otherwise the account would be reinvested into a new ISA. 
It said that it wrote to Mr B when his account was due to mature with the options available. 
As it didnt receive a response his account was transferred to another product. When this 
new product was due to mature it said it wrote again to Mr B but didnt receive a response 
and so the account was transferred to another new product. It said that Mr B was sent 
statements which confirmed the account the funds were in and the relevant interest rate at 
any time. Therefore, it didnt accept that a mistake had been made regarding the 
management of Mr Bs account. Virgin Money apologised that it didnt resolve Mr Bs 
complaint within the required timeframe. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Virgin Moneys response and referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator noted the terms and conditions of Mr Bs ISA set out what would happen on 
maturity and said that he had seen copies of letters sent to Mr Bs address concerning 
maturity and renewal. Based on this he didnt think Virgin Money had done anything wrong 
regarding the reinvestment of Mr Bs ISA. However, he didnt think Mr B had been provided 
with the service he should have when he raised his complaint. Because of this he 
recommended that Virgin Money pay Mr B £100 compensation. 
Mr B didnt agree that the compensation recommended was sufficient for the issues he 
experienced. He said the service received since he raised his complaint was poor and said 
that he didnt look to move his ISA while he was waiting for Virgin Money to issue its final 
response as he thought he needed to remain a customer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B opened a cash ISA and in doing so agreed to its terms and conditions. These set out 
what would happen on maturity and that Mr B would be written to with details before 
maturity. This information is also provided online. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept 
that Mr B was made aware of what would happen to his ISA funds on maturity.
Mr B said that he didnt receive any notification of the maturity or information about renewal. 
Virgin Money has provided copies of letters that were sent about the maturity of Mr Bs 
products and the action that would be taken if no contact was made. Therefore, while I note 
Mr Bs comment about not receiving the letters, I find on balance that he was provided with 
the information he needed to be aware that his product was maturing and the action that 
would be taken. As Mr B didnt get in touch with Virgin Money his ISA was transferred to a 
new product as had been set out.
Mr B was also sent statements that set out his product and the interest rate. I appreciate 
these didnt set out the maturity date but as Mr B had been provided with this information 
when he set up the ISA and then in the details about the new product, I think he was given 
the information he needed. Had he been unclear about the maturity date he could have 
contacted Virgin Money.
On balance, while I can appreciate that Mr B is disappointed with the products his ISA was 
transferred to I do not find I can say that Virgin Money didnt anything wrong in regard to this 
and so I do not require it to refund Mr B any interest he considers has been lost through this 
process.
Mr B also complained about the service he received when he raised his complaint. I agree 
that this wasnt of a level we would expect which meant he received multiple letters and 
experienced delays in getting an outcome to his complaint. While I note Mr Bs comment 
about him thinking he needed to remain a customer of Virgin Money until he had received 
the final response letter I cannot say that this information was given by Virgin Money and he 
did have the option to transfer his funds at an earlier date. That said, I can understand why 
he felt he needed to keep things in place until he received an outcome to his complaint. He 
moved his funds shortly after and so it is likely he may have moved funds earlier had the 
outcome from Virgin Money been received sooner. That said, given recent changes in 
interest rates this may not have meant he was disadvantaged.
Our investigator recommended that Mr B be paid £100 compensation for the service issues 
he experienced. While I note Virgin Moneys comments about its acceptance of this, I think 
that given the delays and the service Mr B was provided with it is reasonable in this case 
that compensation is provided. I note Mr Bs comments about the compensation not being 
enough. However, having considered the issues and based on my comments above about 
the transfers and the delays, I find that £100 is reasonable. 
Putting things right
Virgin Money should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the service issues he experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should take the action 
set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman