DRN-4195606
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr H with a loan for £2,500.00 in September 2020. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £154.41 One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Mr H and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr H could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr H has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Hs first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Hs application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr H didnt have too much in the way of 
non-mortgage related debt. And Mr Hs commitments at the time were relatively well 
maintained. I think its also fair to say that he wasnt using all of the available credit at the 
time, given thats what the credit search appears to show. Crucially, according to the credit 
searches, Mr Hs debt total at the time of the application was reasonable in comparison to 
his income and there wasnt anything to indicate that the income and expenditure 
information gathered was incorrect either. 
I accept that Mr H appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. 
However, 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. And as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was arranging for Mr H 
and there wasnt a history of Mr H obtaining funds and returning for more, Im satisfied that 
118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr H would be left in a better position 
as a result of taking this loan.
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that 118 118 Money ought to have gone into the depth 
of checks Mr H appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  
the information provided doesnt suggest that it wouldnt have lent. This is because the 
information provided now also suggests the loan payments were affordable. 
In any event, given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont 
think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further  especially 
given what was obtained showed Mr H was in a relatively stable financial position at the time 
at least. As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when 
deciding to lend to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it 
found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman