DRN-4020001
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc sent documents by post, when their 
communication preference is electronic only.
Mr M has brought this complaint, so for simplicity Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
What happened
Ms J and Mr M unfortunately had a default registered on their joint current account. 
Mr M says HSBC didnt send critical correspondence electronically as hed asked. He said 
hed missed mail sent to a previous address before and feels strongly about receiving paper 
correspondence where its not required for environmental reasons. Mr M argues this action 
led to HSBC recording a default which hed like removed.
Ms J and Mr M had a previous complaint considered by our service, and I issued a final 
decision. In that final decision, I explained I was satisfied the default had been applied fairly, 
and Mr M had been told about this in advance of it being applied.
Because matters cant be reinvestigated, our Investigator explained to Mr M we couldnt look 
at whether the default would be removed, at best if this case was upheld Mr M may get 
some compensation.
HSBC did ultimately address Mr Ms concerns as a new complaint  and said theyre 
required to send certain regulatory letters by post. They said this includes default notices, 
Final Demands, changes to terms and conditions, and account closure letters. So, HSBC 
said theyd not made an error.
Our Investigator considered things but found HSBC had acted fairly  and that they told 
Mr M in his online banking they had to still send some documents by post. She shared the 
relevant evidence of this with Mr M.
He though didnt accept this. He said the statement on their online banking  There are 
some documents that we have to send you in the post so you may still get some paper 
documents from us  doesnt imply HSBC wont send digital correspondence. Mr M says 
this implies a digital correspondence customer will get paper correspondence as well. Mr M 
also says there is no evidence the letters were sent at all.
As Mr M didnt accept the outcome of this complaint, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt reinvestigate complaints  so, I wont comment further on the default or 
whether the letters were sent or not  as they were both covered by my previous decision.
The complaint here is, quite simply, whether HSBC are allowed to send some documents by 
post instead of electronically.
HSBC have explained theyre required to send some documents by post  this includes the 
documents Mr M has expressed concerns about.
HSBC are correct in that theyre required to post certain documents. So, I dont think theyve 
done anything wrong in doing so. And I can see from the evidence provided when Mr M set 
his preferences to electronic communication, they made him aware of this.
I appreciate the line Mr Ms quoted from HSBCs website doesnt imply they wont also send 
a copy of the letter electronically  but it also doesnt say it will. So, although I understand 
Mr Ms point, and I do have sympathy for the difficult position he finds himself in, I dont think 
HSBC have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman