DRN-1012697
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mrs D says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Bank of Scotland had to make it clear to Mrs D that she had a choice 
about it. But Mrs D says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of Mrs Ds application form for the credit card. This 
included a box to be crossed if Mrs D wanted to take out PPI, and there is a pre-printed 
cross in the box.
While the cross in pre-printed, Mrs Ds name, address, date of birth and employment details 
are also pre-printed. So it seems likely there was some conversation between Mrs D and 
Bank of Scotland before the application form was printed out. And, based on the evidence I 
have and what I understand about its sales practices at the time, I think its likely Bank of 
Scotland made it clear to Mrs D that she had a choice about the PPI in that conversation.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mrs D, so it had to check that it was right 
for her. And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And shes told us she didnt have any other means 
she couldve used to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Bank of Scotland had to give Mrs D clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have been 
useful for Mrs D if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mrs D off taking it out.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs D paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs D back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mrs D.my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman