DRN-3752016
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Virgin Money) gave him incorrect 
information about his credit card payments and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr B says that when he made a one-off manual payment on his credit card he specifically 
asked whether there was anything else he needed to do. He says he was told a direct debit 
had been set up for the following month and there was nothing else he needed to do. Mr B 
says this didnt happen and he found out when he received a succession of late payment 
letters. He says it took multiple phone calls between November 2021 and February 2022 to 
get it addressed and in the meantime his credit file had been adversely affected and hed 
been refused credit as a result.
Virgin Money accepted that Mr B was incorrectly told his direct debit would continue and that 
its reinstatement was not actioned correctly. It said it refunded his credit card fees and 
removed the late payment marker from his credit file. Virgin Money also acknowledged the 
poor customer service Mr B received and offered him £100 compensation.
Mr B said the £100 offered was insufficient.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He considered there had 
been many avoidable errors over several months which caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience. For that he recommended compensation of £500.
Mr B accepted this outcome.
Virgin Money responded to say, in summary, that £500 is not in line with the usual level of 
compensation awarded by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B first became aware of an issue with his account on 9 October 2021 when he called 
Virgin Money about a missed payment from his credit card. As a result, he made a manual 
payment the same day. He was told that his direct debit would be reinstated for the 
November statement, but his did not happen and he was charged a late fee and began to 
receive letters about arrears.
When Mr B called Virgin Money it refunded the late fee and interest, but again the direct 
debit failed in December, so Mr B incurred a further late fee. The direct debit was 
successfully taken in January, by which time Mr B had made several calls and received 
multiple letters about arrears. He also received a late payment marker on his credit file.
I accept Virgin Money has refunded the late payment fees, amended Mr Bs credit file and 
now offered higher compensation of £250, but I consider more redress is appropriate in the 
circumstances. I say that because:
It took over three months for Mr Bs credit card statements to reflect the direct debit 
hed set up and for all the late fees to be refunded;
In the meantime, he was unable to use his card and his credit file showed a late 
payment marker for December 2021;
I can see that, as a result of this complaint, Mr B spoke to Virgin Money at least 12 
times between October 2021 and April 2022 with the total call time exceeding three 
hours and promised call backs not materialising.
So I find that, based on all the evidence I have reviewed, compensation of £500 is fair and 
reasonable.
Finally, I acknowledge Mr B says he was refused credit during the time in which he had a 
late payment marker on his credit file. However, Ive seen no evidence that this marker 
directly affected any of Mr Bs credit applications, so I dont find it is reasonable to award 
anything further here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Virgin Money) 
should pay Mr B £500 for the stress and inconvenience its mistakes have caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman