DRN-4073736
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was misled by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited (Sun Life) about the options hed have at age 75 if he deferred taking his two 
personal pensions until then.
What happened
Mr L says he made enquiries with Sun Life in April 2017 about his options when taking his 
pension benefits. Mr L says he was told during this call that he could defer taking his pension 
until age 75 and at that point he could take the entirety of the funds free of tax. 
In January 2022 Mr L received communications from Sun Life about his pension options as 
he was approaching his 70th birthday, which was his chosen retirement age. Mr L was 
informed he could either take an annuity from the pension, transfer it elsewhere or take the 
full sum and pay tax. Mr L contacted Sun Life about this straight away as it was his 
understanding he could leave his funds invested until age 75 and then take them all tax-free.
Mr L chased Sun Life for a response several times and then made a complaint, but he didnt 
receive a substantive reply until May 2022. Sun Life told Mr L it no longer had a copy of the 
call in which he said he was told he could take his whole pension tax-free at age 75. But it 
confirmed he could only take 25% of the funds in each plan tax-free - the residual amount 
would be subject to tax. It offered Mr L £75 for the service issues hed experienced since 
January 2022.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this response and raised further concerns. Sun Life maintained it 
wasnt able to find a copy of the call recording but said even if its agent had said Mr L could 
take the whole pension tax-free at age 75, it wouldnt be able to honour this as it was 
contrary to tax law. It increased the offer of compensation to a total of £175.
Mr L remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our Service. Mr L said if hed known he 
couldnt take the full pension tax-free at age 75 hed most likely have withdrawn the full sum 
and invested it elsewhere.
The Investigator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. While he thought Mr L did likely call 
Sun Life in 2017 to talk about his pension options, he didnt think there was enough evidence 
to say hed definitely been misinformed. The Investigator thought it was more likely Mr L had 
misinterpreted something that hed been told given there were specific rules about pension 
benefits being taken at age 75. He also wasnt persuaded that Mr L had been disadvantaged 
as result of whatever he was told in 2017 as his pensions had remained invested since then 
and had grown.
Mr L didnt accept this, saying Sun Life hadnt denied what their agent had told him in 2017. 
He felt the Investigator hadnt made sufficient enquiries with Sun Life. So, the Investigator 
checked again whether Sun Life could find a recording of the call Mr L made in 2017, but 
Sun Life confirmed it couldnt find anything. The Investigator also obtained further 
information which he felt showed Mr L had been sent details of how his pension would be 
taxed in April 2017, which had likely followed the call. Mr L maintained that he relied on the 
information he said he was given over the phone and believed Sun Life should be held to 
account for the misinformation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I appreciate Mr L feels very strongly that he was misled 
by Sun Life and that this has caused him financial detriment. But having considered Mr Ls 
points carefully, Im not persuaded Sun Life has dealt with Mr Ls complaint unfairly here. Ill 
explain why.
The key piece of evidence in this case is the call Mr L made to Sun Life in April 2017. 
However, due to the passage of time the call recording is no longer available. I know Mr L 
feels that Sun Life hasnt looked adequately for the call recording, but Im satisfied it has 
searched its records appropriately. And I dont think Sun Life has anything to gain by 
withholding this recording as it would provide clarity on the matter.
Sun Life explains that it received a pension questionnaire from Mr L on 10 April 2017, in 
which he indicated that he wanted to cash in his pension plans. So, on 25 April 2017 it sent 
Mr L a pack with the relevant forms which would allow him to do so. Sun Life says Mr L 
chose not to cash in his pensions but decided to change his retirement age to 70. It isnt 
clear when Mr L made the call to Sun Life, but it seems to me it was likely after Mr L 
received the pack from Sun Life given that he decided against cashing in his pension and 
changed his retirement age. I think Mr L wouldve most likely made that decision following a 
discussion with an agent of Sun Life. Im also mindful that Mr L said he relied on what he 
was told over the phone rather than what he was sent, which suggests to me the call was 
made afterwards. But even if Mr L made the phone call before receiving the documents from 
Sun Life, I think he wouldve still most likely relied on what he was told over the phone.
The Investigator thought the information within the pack ought to have made it clear to Mr L 
that he would pay tax on 75% of his pension funds if he took it all as cash. But Mr Ls very 
specific issue here is that he says he was told on the phone if he left his pension funds until 
age 75 then he could take the full pension tax-free. And I dont really think theres anything 
within the pack that would necessarily conflict with that belief. Although the pack did say that 
if Mr L took his whole pension as cash he would be able to take 25% tax-free and the rest 
would be taxed, Im mindful that this pack was issued following Mr Ls specific request to 
cash in his pension, just as he approached age 65. The pack didnt go on to explain the 
specific tax rules applying at age 75, so regardless of when Mr L received this pack, Im not 
persuaded he wouldve understood that his taking his whole pension at age 75 would be 
taxed in the same way.
That said, I accept Mr L genuinely believed after speaking with Sun Life that he could take 
his full pension tax-free at age 75. However, Im not persuaded that I can attribute that to an 
error made by Sun Life. I understand that Mr L will disagree with this view, but Ive come to 
this conclusion because I would expect Sun Lifes agents to know that a pension is taxed as 
income, regardless of what age it is taken at  that is a key feature of a pension. So, I dont 
think that is something it is likely to have got wrong. So, on balance, I think the only other 
reasonable explanation here is that Mr L misinterpreted something he was told about taking 
his benefits at age 75. For example, its possible he misunderstood what he was told about 
the tax applicable following the lifetime allowance test  he may have understood this to mean that if he wasnt above the lifetime allowance he wouldnt pay any tax at all. I think this 
is a more plausible explanation than Sun Life telling Mr L he wouldnt pay any income tax on 
his pension at all if he left it to age 75.
Even if I could be persuaded that Mr L was misinformed on this call, Im not satisfied he has 
suffered any financial consequences as a result. Mr L says if he hadnt been misinformed he 
wouldve taken the entirety of the funds at age 65 and paid tax and then invested the 
residual amount elsewhere. But Im not persuaded he wouldve done this as it wasnt tax 
efficient. And moreover, hed have paid some tax at the higher rate. Given Mr L said he 
intended to leave his pension until he reached age 75 because he believed he could take it 
tax-free, that suggests to me that he wanted to avoid paying tax if he could. So taking the full 
amount and paying extra tax at age 65, purely so he could invest the remainder, isnt logical. 
I also think if hed followed that course of action he wouldnt be any better off. Thats 
because by deferring taking his pension, his funds have remained invested with Sun Life 
throughout this time. Whereas if hed taken the entirety of the funds at age 65, he would 
have had less to invest elsewhere due to the tax charge. So, I think Mr L is more likely than 
not in a better position having left his pension where it was.
So, overall, while I accept Mr L will be unhappy with my findings, I dont think Sun Life is 
responsible for his belief that he wouldnt have paid any tax if hed left his funds until age 75.
Sun Life offered Mr L £175 to compensate him for the delay in responding to the concerns 
he raised in January 2022. I note Mr L didnt accept this, and I understand it hasnt been paid 
to him. But Im satisfied it is a fair amount to recognise the understandable frustration Mr L 
experienced when he didnt receive responses to his emails or chasers about the tax 
position of his pension.
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has already made an offer to pay 
Mr L £175 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
Mr L £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman