DRN-3209776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that the change in charging structure Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS) has made has resulted in the cost of their overdraft increasing. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F complained to BOS about the change in its pricing structure of its overdrafts. 
They say the change in rate makes it more difficult for them to pay off their overdraft and that 
the charges are excessive and unfair. 
BOS says the fees applied to their account were correctly applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and thought that BOS shouldve realised 
that Mr and Mrs F were in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to 
the account from 2014 because the account in question hadnt maintained a credit balance 
for a significant period of time. 
BOS disagreed that Mr and Mrs F were suffering financial difficulties. It says Mr and Mrs F 
had surplus funds in other accounts held with it as well as having a large sum credited to the 
account in 2016 which they couldve used to pay their overdraft.  
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in November 
2021. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Fs complaint. I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a 
final decision and neither BOS or Mr and Mrs F have added any further information not 
already considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs F are complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied 
to their account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts BOS charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at BOS various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs F if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Fs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs F were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where BOS didnt treat Mr and Mrs F fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that BOS did treat Mr and Mrs F unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Fs statements I cant see anything 
to suggest that BOS ought to have realised they might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr and Mrs F may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
their expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account into other 
accounts held by Mr and Mrs F. And just having a cursory look at the statements of the other 
accounts held by Mr and Mrs F I can see at any one time there was a surplus balance 
averaging around £200 to £300 a month. While this wasnt enough to pay off their overdraft 
in full, it was certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable time should 
they have chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs F werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have 
alerted BOS to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for BOS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Fs account was being 
used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F would have liked BOS to provide them with an alternative 
solution to paying back their overdraft when it changed its charging structure, but BOS are 
under no obligation to provide this just as Mr and Mrs F are free to shop around if they arent 
happy with what is on offer.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS treated Mr and Mrs F 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs F. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened 
to. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive previously explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman