DRN-2064133
The complaint
Mr F complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, caused damage to his 
car when recovering it under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr Fs car broke down, so he called UKI who sent out a garage to recover his 
car. It was determined the car wasnt driveable, so he was towed to his home. But Mr F 
complained this caused damage to the driveshaft and gearbox, so his car should have been 
put on a flatbed lorry, instead of being towed. Mr F also complained his car wasnt properly 
diagnosed by the technician who came out to see him. 
UKI replied to the complaint and said they accepted towing his car had caused damage and 
they were prepared to pay him £271.20 for the cost of the driveshaft and wiring issues. They 
also paid him a further £200 compensation.
Unhappy with this Mr F asked us to look into things. He said hed had to miss days off work 
because of the issues with his car. And he said initially UKI agreed they were responsible for 
all the damage, but now theyre saying theyre only responsible for the driveshaft and wiring 
issues, not the gearbox issues.
During our investigations, Mr F told us hed scrapped the car, because of the gearbox issue. 
So, he wasnt able to provide any further evidence to support his complaint. 
One of our investigators upheld Mr Fs complaint initially and felt further compensation would 
be fair. But UKI didnt agree and said Mr Fs own garage believed the remaining damage to 
the gearbox wasnt caused by the towing. Mr F had a hire car for nine days, but because of 
this, he was only entitled to two days worth of cover.
This information was reconsidered by one of our investigators who felt that UKI had acted 
fairly in paying part of the costs, £200 compensation, and giving him a hire car for nine days. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said when he first broke down the gearbox was the reason, and then 
he was towed home which was wrong. He says the first garage then said it was the 
driveshaft  but UKI said it was the gearbox thatd broken  and this makes no sense as the 
car was driveable after the driveshaft was repaired. For these reasons, he thinks UKI are 
responsible for the damage caused to his car. And, because Mr F didnt agree, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have accepted they caused damage to the driveshaft of Mr Fs car  and paid him for 
the repairs for that  plus £200 compensation. Mr F says theyve caused more damage to 
his car  so Ive focused my findings on this.
Mr F has argued that the reason his gearbox was damaged was due to the way the car was 
recovered. And hes said in the original recovery the notes say its a gearbox issue. UKI 
have relied on Mr Fs own garage to say the way his car was recovered didnt cause the 
damage to the gearbox.
Ive looked at the recovery notes  these say possible gearbox issue, so I dont think I can 
say this is conclusive as to the reason for the issue. And if I did, this would really support 
UKIs version of events. I say that because if Mr Fs car broke down because of a gear box 
issue, then that damage cant have been caused by the towing of the car that happened 
afterwards.
But I also think the report produced by the garage who looked at the damage to Mr Fs car is 
likely to be a more accurate reflection compared to a roadside diagnosis. I say this because 
theyll have been able to inspect the car for longer than at the roadside.
So, Ive looked closely at the report produced by Mr Fs garage. In summary this says they 
dont believe the damage to the gearbox was caused by the towing  they believed it was 
because of the way the car was driven before it broke down. As this is a considered 
diagnosis by a garage who inspected the car, I think its reasonable to rely on it.
Because of that, I cant reasonably say UKI have turned down Mr Fs claim for further 
damage to his car unfairly so I wont be telling them to pay any further costs.
Ive noted Mr Fs concerns that UKI may have misdiagnosed the problem with his car at the 
roadside. But the issues reported by Mr Fs garage later on are ones I think could only have 
been seen by a more thorough inspection of his car, so I cant say UKI acted unfairly here 
either.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman