DRN-2663528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim against the travel 
cover of their home insurance policy following the curtailment of their trip. Reference to UKI 
includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have a home insurance policy which includes travel cover. Mr and Mrs E 
booked a ski trip with a travel provider. At the outset, their intended departure and return 
dates were 14 March 2020 and 21 March 2020 respectively.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared that covid-19 (coronavirus) 
was a pandemic. On 14 March 2020, Mr and Mrs E departed for their trip as planned and 
arrived at the ski resort around 3pm on that day. That was the same day that the French 
government closed non-essential public places. On the morning of 15 March 2020,
Mr and Mrs E learned that the ski resort was closed because of the announcement by the 
French government.
Mr and Mrs Es trip was curtailed. They returned to the UK on 16 March 2020. The travel 
provider arranged their transfers and return flights home. Mr and Mrs E made a claim 
against their policy. UKI indicated initially that it would cover the claim but later declined 
the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs E could recover the costs from elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs E pursued the claim against the travel provider. The total costs paid to the travel 
provider for flights, transfers, catered accommodation and ski packs was over £2,000. The 
travel provider offered Mr and Mrs E a voucher worth just over £900 in relation to five nights 
unused accommodation and their ski packs. The travel provider deducted the cost of the 
flights, transfers and two nights accommodation. It said that Mr and Mrs E had used those 
elements of the trip.
Mr and Mrs E pursued their claim with UKI. They say that they booked a ski trip, not flights to
and from their destination. They want a full refund of the cost of the trip.
During the complaint, UKI said that it made an error in that it didnt decline the claim earlier.
It paid Mr and Mrs E compensation of £150 in relation to that.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Es claim on the basis that their expenses could be 
recovered from elsewhere. She thought that the terms of the voucher were reasonable.
The investigator looked at the two nights accommodation that Mr and Mrs E 
hadnt recovered from the travel provider. She said that the reason for the 
curtailment of Mr and Mrs Es trip wasnt covered under the curtailment provisions 
of the policy.
The investigator went on to consider the Disaster cover provisions. She said that
Mr and Mrs Es claim for two nights accommodation came under this section of the 
policy. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Es trip had been effectively curtailed on
14 March 2020. She thought UKI should reimburse Mr and Mrs E for two 
nights accommodation that hadnt been refunded by the travel provider.
The investigator thought that the compensation of £150 already offered by UKI in relation 
to its delay in dealing with the claim was fair.
UKI didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
It doesnt understand why the investigator came to the view that it correctly 
declined the claim as Mr and Mrs Es costs could be recovered elsewhere but 
went on to say that it should settle the claim.
It doesnt agree that Mr and Mrs Es claim should be covered under 
the Disaster cover provisions. Mr and Mrs E werent unable to use 
their accommodation or forced to move from it.
The first day of the trip  14 March 2020  essentially went as planned.
The policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment.
Theres no guidance from this service about effective curtailment in           
non-medical cases.
Mr and Mrs E used the accommodation whilst they decided what to do next.
Being confined to the accommodation Mr and Mrs E booked isnt the same as 
being confined to a cabin on a cruise ship. Mr and Mrs E could have left the 
accommodation for exercise.
Its not fair or reasonable to ask UKI to pay for accommodation Mr and Mrs E 
could use. Mr and Mrs E were using the accommodation as a place to eat, sleep 
and rest, as planned.
The investigator considered what UKI said but didnt change her view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. 
My provisional decision
On 8 February 2021 I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as
follows:E Cutting your trip short
Youre covered for
Cutting short a journey (curtailment)
We will pay you up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or
legally have to pay if you have to cut your trip short, including:
Unused accommodation and travel
[]
The policy goes on to list the events leading to curtailment which are covered under the
policy. The events arent relevant here.
J Disaster cover
Youre covered for
Disaster cover
We will pay up to £1,000 for each insured person if your accommodation or the immediate
area is adversely affected by a natural disaster, including:
[]
if you need to return home early: reasonable costs for additional accommodation
and travel, including car hire, provided that you cannot use your return travel tickets
costs you have paid or legally have to pay if you are unable to use or are forced to
move from your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation.
[]
The definition of natural disaster includes pandemic.
Youre not covered for
We wont pay for;
a. []
b. any claim resulting from you not enjoying your trip or not wanting to travel.
c. []
d. Any of these specific exclusions
(see page 48 for full explanations):
1. Recoverable expenses. []
The policy goes on to say that recoverable expenses are any expenses that the policyholder
can recover from elsewhere.
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. Its clear that this wasnt the trip
that Mr and Mrs E planned but I need to decide whether UKI treated them unfairly in
declining the claim. I dont think it did, so I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I
say that because:
Insurance policies dont cover everything that might happen on a trip. The 
circumstances in which Mr and Mrs E found themselves arent covered under 
the curtailment provisions of the policy.Ive looked at the Disaster cover provisions. The area Mr and Mrs E were in 
was adversely affected by a pandemic. The policy provides cover for 
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and additional travel where 
return travel tickets cant be used, and pre-booked, pre-paid accommodation 
that they were unable to use. The policy doesnt cover expenses that           
Mr and Mrs E can recover from elsewhere.
Ive looked at the terms of the voucher in relation to unused accommodation 
and ski packs provided by the travel provider. I note that it must be used 
before April 2022. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E would prefer cash, but I 
think that the voucher is acceptable reimbursement in relation to the unused 
accommodation and the ski packs.
The travel provider arranged the return transfer and flight, so Mr 
and Mrs E dont have a claim for additional travel costs.
The travel provider has declined to reimburse Mr and Mrs E in relation to the 
two nights accommodation. So, those costs cant be recovered elsewhere.
The central question for me to decide is whether Mr and Mrs Es trip was 
effectively curtailed earlier than 16 March 2020, when they returned home.
I dont think that Mr and Mrs Es trip was effectively curtailed on
14 March 2020. Mr and Mrs E say that they arrived at the ski resort at 3pm 
on 14 March 2020, had skis fitted to boots and had a short period skiing on 
the beginners slope until the free drag lift closed at 5pm. I assume that the 
accommodation staff provided an evening meal. I think that 14 March 2020 
proceeded largely as Mr and Mrs E expected.
On 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs E prepared for departure. They had use of 
the private and communal areas in the accommodation. The staff at the 
accommodation provided meals. Mr and Mrs E left the accommodation for a 
short walk.
On balance, I dont think that Mr and Mrs Es experience on
15 March 2020 was such that their trip was effectively curtailed on that date. 
Whilst this was not the trip they had planned and they couldnt ski, the 
evidence Ive seen suggests that they could use the accommodation, have 
their meals and leave the accommodation until the travel provider arranged 
repatriation on 16 March 2020.
I dont think that Mr and Mrs Es trip was curtailed before they were 
repatriated on 16 March 2020. This wasnt the trip Mr and Mrs E had planned 
and it was no doubt disappointing not to be able to ski but their policy doesnt 
cover loss of enjoyment.
UKI initially indicated that Mr and Mrs Es claim would be covered and its 
common ground that it took too long to tell Mr and Mrs E the true position. I 
think that the compensation of £150 UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs E is fair 
and reasonable, so I dont ask it to pay any more.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said that it had nothing further to add. Mrs E responded to say that she was 
disappointed with my provisional decision but had little left to say. In relation to the voucher for unused accommodation and ski packs provided by the 
travel provider, Mrs E says that she would prefer cash as she feels that the voucher 
isnt redeemable. She said that shes received no response to e-mails or phone calls 
to the travel provider in order to book a holiday for next season. She asks how shes 
meant to use the voucher when she cant contact the travel provider and that it 
appears to have stopped trading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mrs E has said about the travel provider. I phoned the travel provider on              
5 March 2021 and it confirmed that it was trading and taking bookings. I cant explain why 
Mrs E has had such a different experience. I dont think that I can fairly conclude that the 
voucher doesnt have value. 
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman