DRN-1352928
 
The complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr M says the lending was inappropriate for his needs and he couldnt afford the 
loans. The borrowing has led to long-term hardship and financial difficulties.  
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr M between April and 
June 2017. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 13/04/2017 13/11/2017 6 £150.00   £44.41
2 14/04/2017 13/11/2017 6 £100.00   £73.80
3 10/05/2017 13/11/2017 6 £100.00 £104.14
4 01/06/2017 13/11/2017 6   £50.00 £120.22
 
The second of our adjudicators who reviewed the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
When taking into account Mr Ms financial circumstances the lending looked affordable for 
him.  
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been 
passed to me to decide in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so I dont think Sunny was 
wrong to lend to Mr M. Ill explain why.
For all the loan applications Mr M confirmed that his monthly income was £1,400 and his 
monthly expenditure was £275 - £479. This left Mr M with a more than sufficient disposable 
income each month when compared to the maximum monthly loan repayments (when all 
four loans were running) of £120.22. So, I dont think there would have been any reason for 
Sunny to have concluded that the borrowing was not affordable for Mr M on a pounds and 
pence basis. 
As Ive said above, at the beginning of a borrowing relationship I think less thorough checks 
about a customers financial circumstances might be reasonable and proportionate. And I do 
accept its possible that Mr Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in the 
information he provided, or the information Sunny obtained as a result of its own checks. If 
this was the case, Mr Ms actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But Sunny could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think it reached the 
stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr M. From the 
information available, the loan repayments appear affordable and sustainable for Mr M. Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Sunny did for these loans were 
proportionate and it was reasonable for it to have concluded the lending was affordable for 
Mr M. I think its decision to lend to Mr M was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman