DRN-1709531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy about the amount of time it took HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) 
to settle their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q found a water leak in their kitchen. HDI accepted the claim and arranged for 
works to be carried out to identify the source of the leak, dry the affected area and restore 
the kitchen floor.
Mr and Mrs Q were unhappy about the amount of time it took to carry out the works. They 
estimated that it took over two months longer than it needed to because of various delays in 
works being carried out. They also told HDI a number of times that friends were coming to 
stay because of a religious festival and the work needed to be completed before their arrival. 
However, because of the delays the work wasnt completed by that time.
HDI accepted that there had been a delay in completing the works and offered Mr and Mrs Q 
£150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs Q complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
identified that there were delays in some parts of the process but that the compensation 
offered by HDI was appropriate.
As Mr and Mrs Q did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the timelines provided by both Mr Q and HDI. These are very similar in 
terms of what happened and when. I have also looked at the details provided by HDI on how 
the claim was dealt with. Based on all this information I will summarise the key timings in the 
case.
The day after HDI accepted the claim, a loss adjuster went to Mr and Mrs Qs house to carry 
out an assessment. A leak detection company was appointed the same day. It then took 
about a week for the leak detection company to visit to find the source of the leak and about 
another week for it provide a report on this to the loss adjuster. The same day the report was 
received, the loss adjuster appointed a company to provide a quote to excavate the floor. 
About a week later that company went to Mr and Mrs Qs house. The loss adjuster told the 
company that if it was a relatively small amount of work it could do the work on its first visit. 
However, it identified that the work couldnt be done without damaging the ceramic floor tiles, 
which had a potential high reinstatement cost. The leak was also under a part of the floor 
that had an underfloor heating mat, which wasnt previously known. This meant it couldnt do 
the work that day.The company then left Mr and Mrs Qs house. Later the same day the loss adjuster gave the 
company instructions to carry out the required excavation works, which it did just over a 
week later. The day after the excavations, another company went to Mr and Mrs Qs home to 
install dehumidifiers to start the drying process.
It then took about 6 weeks for the kitchen to be dried to a satisfactory standard. However, it 
took about another two weeks for the company who did the drying to provide the paperwork 
confirming this. The loss adjuster was on annual leave and it took a few more days for a 
colleague to pick up the email. The company who needed to do the reinstatement work were 
then given instructions to do the work. Two weeks later, that company went to Mr and Mrs 
Qs home to start the work.
The reinstatement work was due to take several days, which would mean it was still not 
complete by the time Mrs and Mrs Qs visitors were due to stay. Mr Q therefore asked for 
some of the work to be delayed for a few days, until after the visit. It appears that this is the 
first time that the company doing this work was aware of Mr Qs concerns about the works 
impacting the visit and the religious festival.
I have thought about this carefully. Looking at the decisions that were made by the loss 
adjuster, these seem to have been made promptly, normally on the same day as an update 
was provided, and the relevant parties notified in a timely way. However, I note that there 
were a lot of companies involved in the process and that this therefore made it a more 
complex claim to handle. Although, ideally, each stage of the works would have been carried 
out more promptly, I dont think the time taken to carry out most stages of the works was 
unreasonable, given the elements required to resolve the claim and the number of 
companies involved.
However, there is one stage of the works that clearly took longer than it should have done. 
This was the drying process. The drying process itself took some time. I know that Mr Q 
says there was a fault with one of the dehumidifiers which therefore meant the process was 
slower. However, inspections were carried out of the drying process at various points and I 
am satisfied that the drying process was being monitored. 
The drying process was always likely to take some time. However, the communication about 
the progress on this part of the works could have been better and these delays impacted 
when the next stage of the works could start and when the works could be completed. On 
that basis, I think that there were some unnecessary delays in the process.
Mr Q says that he told HDI on several occasions that he needed the works to be completed 
before the religious festival. I have no reason to think this wasnt the case, despite the 
people doing the works not seeming to be aware of this. However, the reason the works 
were still going on at the time of the festival was because of the delay in progressing the 
claim at the drying stage. It then became unavoidable that the works would still be going on 
at the time of the festival.
HDI offered Mr and Mrs Q £150 compensation for the delay. I have thought about this and 
the details outlined above and I think that is reasonable in the circumstances.
I am aware that Mr and Mrs Q found this whole process extremely stressful and that the 
disruption caused by these works, and how long they took, impacted them and their home 
for some considerable time. However, thinking about all of the above, I think this is the right 
outcome.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. HDI 
Global Speciality SE should pay Mr and Mrs Q the £150 compensation, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman