The complaint
Mr F complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
under his motor insurance policy after it was stolen. He thought Admiral should increase its 
offer by £3,000. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was stolen and he made a claim. Admiral offered him £19,140 as the valuation of 
his car. But Mr F thought Admiral had undervalued his car. He provided examples of similar 
cars advertised at higher prices. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He checked the 
motor trade guides we use and found that Admiral had offered Mr F the highest valuation for 
his car that these provided. So he thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F replied that Admirals settlement wouldnt be enough to buy the same car from a 
dealership. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek 
to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr Fs policy provides for the market value of his car just before its loss in the case of its 
theft. Our investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. 
I can see that the investigator checked three of the motor trade guides for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Fs at the date of its loss. Admirals offer 
was the highest of the valuations he found. 
Mr F provided ads for cars like his for sale at higher prices. But we dont find advertisements 
particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for 
this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling 
prices. As our investigator has already explained, asking prices are often inflated to allow 
DRN-1215734dealers to be seen to offer discounts. I also note that the ads are for cars with lower mileage 
than Mr Fs car which would affect the price. 
Mr Fs car was recovered and the salvage was auctioned by Admiral. Mr F thought Admiral 
should take this into account in its settlement. But Admiral had paid Mr Fs claim, so it was 
now the cars owner and the salvage went towards the claim costs. So I cant say that Mr F 
should benefit from this. 
So I think Admirals valuation of Mr Fs car was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly 
in line with our approach. So I cant say Admiral needs to increase its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman