DRN-4505916
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Sainsburys Bank Plc recorded a default on his credit file in relation to a
missed payment on his personal loan.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties on 14 November 2023 setting out why I 
thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld and invited both parties to provide any further 
submissions in reply to my provisional decision by 28 November 2023. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings. The background and my provisional findings are copied below and now 
form part of this final decision. 
Background 
On 13 April 2018 Mr F took out a fixed-sum loan agreement for £15,000 and agreed to make
60 monthly payments of £298.85. Mr F set up a direct debit to make the monthly payments.
When Mr Fs August 2019 payment became due, the direct debit was returned to
Sainsburys unpaid. Sainsburys attempted to collect the payment again on the 23 August
2019, but again the direct debit was returned unpaid. Mr Fs August 2019 payment was
therefore missed and the account was put in arrears.
On 3 September 2019 Sainsburys wrote to Mr F to give him notice of a default sum on his
account. The letter explained this as a late payment fee of £25 which had been applied to
the account due to missing a payment on the account.
Another letter was issued to Mr F on the same day, which confirmed the accounts current
balance (£12,399.63) and the arrears (£298.85). It therefore confirmed the account was in
arrears due to the August 2019 missed payment, that a fee had been charged and what
payment channels were available to bring the account up to date. In an offer of help, the
letter also invited Mr F to contact Sainsburys if his circumstances had changed. But he did
not.
On 17 September 2019 Mr Fs loan payment was returned unpaid, and this prompted
Sainsburys to write to Mr F on 19 September 2019. This letter was a Notice of Sums in
Arrears. It explained the loan balance was £12,469.02 and the amount of the shortfall under
the loan prompting the notice was £624.72. It also set out that notices would be sent every
six months if Mr F continued to be behind with his payments, and included the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA)s information sheet. (The FCA is the financial regulator). The letter
asked Mr F to get in contact to help get his loan back on track. But he did not.
The September 2019 payment request was represented and paid on 23 September 2019.
On 23 September 2019 Sainsburys wrote again to Mr F. The letter confirmed the account in
arrears of £298.85 and referred to the failed 17 September 2023 payment. It set out that
Mr F needed to make this payment as soon as possible and not doing so could negatively
affect his credit file. Different payment options were given and Mr F was invited to contact
Sainsburys. Again, Mr F did not get in contact.
The 17 October 2019 payment request was also returned unpaid, but went through when it
was represented on 23 October 2019.
On 1 November 2019 Sainsburys wrote to Mr F once more. The letter confirmed the
account in arrears of £298.85. It said several attempts had been made to contact Mr F, but
his account had not been brought up to date. It explained that if Mr F did not contact
Sainsburys within 10 days of the date of this letter a Notice of Default would be issued in
line with the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and if the instructions of the Notice of Default were
not followed, then a default would be registered on Mr Fs credit file, remaining there for six
years. The letter invited Mr F to contact Sainsburys. There was no contact from Mr F.
Mr Fs November 2019 payment was requested on 18 November 2019 and returned unpaid.
The payment went through when it was represented on 22 November 2019.
However, before the payment was represented, Sainsburys issued Mr F with a Default
Notice on 14 November 2019. The notice set out that Mr F had missed payments under his
agreement and was therefore now in breach of it. The notice set out that the arrears were
£329.56. It explained that to put things right Mr F needed to pay the arrears before 11
December 2019 and what the consequences would be of not doing so. Sainsburys set out
the options as terminating the agreement so the remaining balance would be due
immediately and if full payment was not received by the 11 December 2019 that they would
instruct a debt collection agency and/ or take legal proceedings against Mr F for the full
amount owed under the agreement (at the time £11,941.98). Sainsburys explained the
amount could change if they chose to continue adding interest, fees and charges. Mr F was
invited to contact Sainsburys. There was no engagement from Mr F.
Sainsburys defaulted Mr Fs account on 11 December 2019.
On 13 December 2019 Sainsburys wrote to Mr F confirming that a default had been
registered and that he needed to pay the full balance of the account to them. They invited
Mr F to contact them to arrange payment in an affordable and manageable way and said
they would not charge any interest or additional charges. Mr F did not reply.
Due to no response Sainsburys wrote again to Mr F on 27 December 2019. The letter set
out that they had tried to contact Mr F several times about the outstanding balance, and
asked that he get in contact with them. It also said if they didnt hear from Mr F in the next 30
days they would have to take things further to recover the money which could mean passing
his debt to a third-party debt collector. They invited Mr F to get in contact.
An internal screenshot of Sainsburys notes relating to this matter shows that Mr F
messaged Sainsburys on 16 January 2020. He said, Ive had a letter dated 27 December
2019 saying Ive defaulted my loan. However I have checked my bank account and see a
payment went out on the 17th December 2019.
Sainsburys acknowledged this and asked Mr F to call them so they could help him further.
Its not clear to me what happened after this. But for context - December 2019s payment
was made without issue, but Januarys payment was returned unpaid and represented on 23
January 2020 when it went through.
February 2020s payment was also returned unpaid when the first attempt to collect it wasmade, and it was returned unpaid again on 21 February 2020 when it was represented. So
this was another missed payment.
Mr F made faster payments into the account on 8 March 2020 for £300 and £329.56 which
then brought the account up to date.
In April 2020  due to the global pandemic  Mr F contacted Sainsburys to see about a
payment holiday or what options may be available to him.
In February 2023 Mr F raised his complaint that a default had been registered against him.
On 22 April 2023 Sainsburys issued a closing personal loan statement confirming the
statement balance as 0.00 as of 21 April 2023. The loan was therefore repaid.
Our Investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint, and because Mr F did not accept the
Investigators findings the matter has come to me to decide.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive not commented on each and every single point raised, Id like to reassure the
parties that I have reviewed all the available submissions from both parties to decide this
matter and I have focused on what I believe is relevant to resolving this complaint.
In considering what is a fair and reasonable resolution in all the circumstances of the case,
Ive taken into account any relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what would be considered good
industry practice for the time in question.
And when the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision
on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is
more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
What were Sainsburys responsibilities in this matter?
Sainsburys had responsibilities under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  something they
referred to in some of the correspondence Ive mentioned earlier. They also had regulatory
responsibilities as this was a regulated credit agreement  these are set out in the FCAs
Handbook of rules and guidance. Sainsburys also voluntarily subscribed to The Standards
of Lending Practice - a voluntary set of lending practices for UK lenders to sign up to. And
they had responsibilities in terms of the information they report to Credit Reference Agencies
(CRA)  something the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) (set up as an independent
body to uphold information rights) monitors. Sainsburys had of course also set out terms
and conditions in relation to the loan agreement they entered into with Mr F, alongside other
loan documentation.
I have set out below what I consider to be relevant to this complaint.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 86B  titled Notice of sums in arrears under fixed-sum credit agreement etc  sets
out that the section applies where at any time the following conditions are satisfied. I thinkthe following parts are relevant here:
This section applies where at any time the following conditions are satisfied 
a. That the debtor or hirer under an applicable agreement is required to have made at 
least two payments under the agreement before that time;
b. That the total sum paid under the agreement by him is less than the total sum which 
he is required to have paid before that time;
c. That the amount of the shortfall is no less than the sum of the last two payments 
which he is required to have made before that time;
The FCAs Handbook
Relevant to this matter is the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive noted the following
sections of CONC as relevant to this matter.
CONC 7.1.3(G) (3)
In this chapter the expression arrears includes any shortfall in one or more payment due
from a customer under an agreement to which the chapter applies.
CONC 7.3.2(G)
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard
to its obligations under *Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
CONC 7.3.3(G)
Where a customer under a regulated credit agreement fails to make an occasional payment
when it becomes due, a firm should, in accordance with Principle 6, allow for such unmade
payments to be made within the original term of the agreement unless:
(1) The firm reasonably believes that it is appropriate to allow a longer period for 
repayment and has no reason to believe that doing so will increase the total amount 
payable to be unsustainable or otherwise cause a customer to be in financial 
difficulties or
(2) The firm reasonably believes that terminating the agreement will mitigate such 
adverse consequences for the customer and before terminating the agreement it 
explains this to the customer.
*Principle 6 in the FCA Handbook (found in PRIN Principles for Business) says: A firm must
pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Lending Standard Board
The Lending Standard Boards Standard of Lending Practice: personal customers code
includes the following:
Account maintenance and servicing: customers in financial difficulty, or in the early stages of
the collections process, will receive appropriate support and fair treatment, across the
different communication channels offered, in order to help them deal with their debts in the
most suitable way.And goes on to note that firms will achieve this with systems and controls that are capable of
identifying and, subsequently, supporting customers in financial difficulty. Firms should be
able to demonstrate that a sympathetic and positive approach has been applied when
considering a customers financial situation.
Governance and oversight: customers will receive a fair outcome when taking out a
consumer credit product and throughout the whole customer lifecycle, wherever the
interaction with the customer takes place.
The ICOs Credit Explained document
This says, A defaulted account. This may show on your credit reference file for six years
from the date of the default. A default normally occurs when you have not met the terms of a
credit agreement and your account is three to six months in arrears. When you repay the
debt, the entry on your credit reference file should be marked as settled or satisfied.
Sainsburys personal loan terms and conditions
What you need to do
You agree you will make each monthly payment in the amounts set out in this loan
agreement
Finding out how much you owe
During this loan agreement you can requesta statement of your loan account which shows
the due date and amount of all future monthly payments you owe us under this agreement
Calculating and charging interest
If you do not make a monthly payment in full by the payment due date you will be charged
additional arrears interest on any unpaid amounts, which will be calculated at the rate shown
in this agreement, and will be applied to your loan account daily until all unpaid amounts
have been paid.
Our right to terminate
If any of the following happen we no longer have to pay you the loan or any part of it and,
depending on any notice we are required to give to you by law, we may terminate this loan
agreement and you must pay us the total amount you owe us, straight away:
You do not pay the agreed monthly payment amount by the payment due date.
You breach any conditions of this loan agreement
Using our rights
We can delay in using, or fail to use, our rights under this loan agreement without losing
them
Keeping each other informed
Any notice we give you will be sent to you at the last address you have given us
Our lending commitments and what we ask of youAs a lender we have a responsibility to act fairly
We will treat you fairly and reasonably at all times and make sure that you are provided with
a high level of service
We will always aim to help you if we see, or you tell us, that you are having trouble
financially
What we ask of you
Carefully check your account statements to make sure they are accurate
Explanation of the loan agreement document (this accompanied the terms and conditions)
How much you will have to pay
Assuming you pay all your agreed monthly payments as they fall due the total amount you
will have to pay (the loan plus interest and other costs) is £17,931
A few things wed like to draw your attention to
you must continue to make your monthly payments as they fall due
Failure to pay
If you dont make your monthly payment in full by the payment due date you will be charged
additional arrears interest on any unpaid amounts, and will also incur the charges set out in
the loan agreement
Missing payment could have severe consequences for you, including having a negative
effect on your credit score
If you miss a number of payments, or do not make your monthly payments in full, we may
end the loan agreement and you will have to repay the total amount you owe us early. We
may take legal action against you if your payments are not madeIf that action is
successful, we may apply to enforce any judgment in a number of ways including getting a
charging order against your home
Pre-contract credit information
We will use your payment to repay the amount you owe us under the agreement in this
order; first, towards any amount in arrears you owe because you did not make monthly
payments in full when they were due, then towards any monthly payments which are
currently due, next towards any additional arrears interest and late payment fees and lastly
towards reducing the remaining loan amount you owe us.
So taking the above into account, was it fair and reasonable for Sainsburys to register a 
default on Mr Fs account when they did?
Its not in doubt that Mr Fs account was in arrears after he missed the August 2019 payment
or that he had not met the terms of his loan agreement.
I also think its fair to say that the industry generally accepts that moving an account to a
default typically follows three to six months in arrears.From the submissions I can see that Mr Fs view of the matter is he only missed one
payment as the payments following August 2019 were made. However, Sainsburys have
explained the arrears continued over the following months therefore permitting them to
eventually issue the Default Notice.
At this point I think it important to refer back to the pre-contract credit information noted
above which explains how payments to the loan agreement will be applied. In effect, this
meant that as September 2019s payment was used to pay the arrears from August 2019,
this created a missed payment for September 2019. This is supported by the letter
Sainsburys issued to Mr F on 23 September 2019 in which they now reference the arrears
in relation to the 17 September 2023 payment. As the account was not brought up to date
until March 2020, this meant each subsequent payment in late 2019 was being used to first
clear the arrears of the previous month. It therefore created a trickle of missed payments.
Sainsburys issued the Default Notice on 14 November 2019. By this time, August,
September and Octobers payments had all been missed.
Taking all of the above into account, in the circumstances, I think Sainsburys followed the
appropriate process to issue the Default Notice and they were within their rights to register
the default when they did - particularly as they had not received any contact from Mr F
during this time. (I will refer to the receipt of letters in more detail later on).
However, Ive also considered whether it was fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of
this case, for Sainsburys to register the default when they did. Ive considered what  given
the lack of contact from Mr F  did Sainsburys reasonably know in relation to Mr Fs account
at the time they issued the Default Notice in November 2019?
Sainsburys had access to Mr Fs account payment history. Through this its possible to see
that in 2018 Mr F had two returned payments which were then paid when represented. The
account was then paid regularly until August 2019 when the payment was missed. The
monthly payment amount was made in both September and October.
In the circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for Sainsburys to consider that
the missed payment in August 2019 may simply have been overlooked as Mr F continued to
make monthly payments to the loan, and all previous payments to the loan had in fact been
made.
Taking this into account together with the relevant regulations, code of practice and
Sainsburys own loan documentation (as Ive described above) I think its fair to say that the
intention behind these is to ensure fair, reasonable, positive and sympathetic treatment of
the customer and ensure due regard is given to the interests of the customer.
It was for Sainsburys to decide when to apply a default. However, I think to move to a
Default Notice in November 2019 when Sainsburys were still receiving the monthly payment
amount seems to me unfair given the significant impact a default can have in relation to
someones credit file. As noted in CONC 7.3.3(G) above, guidance is given to the application
of Principle 6 that where there is failure to make an occasional payment when due,
allowance can be given to make any unmade payments within the original term of the loan
agreement.
Overall, while I maintain Sainsburys had the right to apply the default in this case and they
followed the process to do so, I dont think  based on what Ive seen - that in the
circumstances of this particular case it was fair and reasonable of Sainsburys to apply the
default when they did.I am therefore minded to ask Sainsburys to remove Mr Fs default in relation to this account.
Sainsburys letters to Mr F
Mr F says he did not receive several of the letters I described earlier and he noted in
particular that the address on some of the letters in question was spaced differently. Mr F
said this made the address unclear and believes this shows the letters could therefore not
have reached him.
I disagree with Mr F.
Its not possible for me to know if Mr F did receive each and every letter from Sainsburys 
the letters were not sent by recorded delivery for example. However, I think on balance he
more likely than not did receive them.
These were important letters. They did have Mr Fs correct address (albeit some letters as
Mr F has said were set out so that there was less distinction between the individual lines of
the address). And I have no reason to believe Sainsburys did not issue these letters.
Mr F himself contacted Sainsburys on 16 January 2020 to say that he had received
Sainsburys letter of 27 December 2019. This letter of 27 December 2019  it is worth noting
 had the address set out in the way Mr F describes as unclear. So I think this further
supports that these letters were addressed correctly and able to reach Mr F. I would also
add it would be unfair of me to hold Sainsburys at fault for any issue with the postal service.
I realise Sainsburys may feel these letters discharge their responsibilities here so the default
should remain. And I am very mindful that the Default Notice of 14 November 2019 was
addressed clearly  each part of the address on separate lines. So I think Mr F more likely
than not received this.
That said, for reasons as Ive already set out above, I think it would have been fair of
Sainsburys to not have registered the default when they did. So, I am giving Mr F the benefit
of the doubt here.
Interest
Mr F raised the issue of interest that was applied to his account suggesting that the
outstanding balance of his account should be less because Sainsburys had frozen interest,
but he continued to make his full monthly payments.
I dont think Mr F is owed any money back here.
Mr F entered into an agreement to borrow money, pay interest for borrowing that money and
to pay any additional interest or charges if and when they fell due. Based on what Ive seen,
this is what I think he has paid in terms of what was applied to the account.
Ive therefore not seen anything to suggest Sainsburys have acted unfairly in how theyve
applied any interest and charges.
As noted above, Sainsburys loan terms and conditions set out that if a monthly payment is
not made in full by the payment due date, additional arrears interest will be charged on any
unpaid amounts. I believe this is the interest Sainsburys stopped applying after the account
was defaulted which I would generally find fair and reasonable in such circumstances.Putting things right
In the circumstances of this particular case, I think it was unfair of Sainsburys to apply
Mr Fs default when they did, so I am minded to ask them to remove it. However, all late or
missed payments should still be reflected on the account history.
For the reasons above, I am minded not to award the return of any interest to Mr F.
And while Ive considered the impact this matter may have had on Mr F personally, I am not
minded to make any financial award for this given I think Mr F has some responsibility here
as well for what happened.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr F replied to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing further to add, and 
believed the provisional decision to be fair. 
Sainsburys also responded to my provisional decision. They said that Mr Fs constant late 
payments represented financial hardship, so they disagreed with the proposal to remove the 
default. Sainsburys gave no further comments than this and did not provide me with any new 
evidence to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully weighed up what Sainsburys have said about the constant late payments 
on Mr Fs account and that the default should remain, this is not enough to persuade me to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
Sainsburys issued the default notice at a time when they were still receiving Mr Fs monthly 
payments, and for the reasons above in the spirit of treating their customer fairly, I think 
Sainsburys could have given Mr Fs situation further consideration. I therefore do not think it 
was fair for Sainsburys to register the default when they did. 
In the circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision dated 14 November 2023 and for the reasons set out above, I think it was unfair of 
Sainsburys to apply Mr Fs default when they did. 
Putting things right
Sainsburys Bank Plc should remove Mr Fs default in relation to this loan agreement. 
Mr F should note that any late or missed payments should still be reflected on the account 
history. 
I make no further award. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Fs complaint is upheld and Sainsburys 
Bank Plc should put things right in the way I have described above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman