DRN-3851411
The complaint
Mr J complains about a Santander UK Plc (trading as Cahoot) payment error and how their 
lack of help had a significant impact on his health.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
Mr J has disability which, among other things, impacts his ability to communicate.
In July 2021, Mr J paid a cheque into his Cahoot bank account for £1,021.60. This was an
important payment for Mr J as he had been laid off work due to Covid and wasnt in receipt
of government furlough support.
Mr J noticed this cheque hadnt been credited to his account and contacted Cahoot so they
could trace his cheque. Cahoot presumed the cheque was lost and Mr J was told to contact
the institution that issued it to get a replacement. Mr J reminded Cahoot of his disability and
told them that he had not lost the cheque. However, Cahoots position remained the same
and Mr J then took steps to try and get a replacement cheque sent.
This involved making telephone calls, which Mr J says he found very difficult and, when Mr J
contacted the institution that issued the cheque for a replacement, matters became confused
and complicated. This is because he was informed that the cheque had been cashed by
another bank.
It was not until several months later that it became clear that rather than being lost, the
cheque had been incorrectly credited to another Cahoot customers account.
In December 2021, Cahoot apologised to Mr J for the service he received and for
disregarded the notes relating to his disability. They credited his account with £250
compensation. However, they said they no longer had the funds and it was therefore
necessary for him to contact the payor to obtain another cheque and then make another
payment.
Mr J complained to our service about the inconvenience, distress and impact on his
disability. Our investigator didnt think Cahoots compensation was sufficient and said this
should be increased from £250 to £400.
Mr J remains dissatisfied and doesnt feel this is a fair outcome. This is because the events,
the lack of help and the requirement for him to intervene, severely impacted his health. He
feels Cahoot have targeted his disability and describes how difficult interactions were for him
with sleepless nights and exhaustion, causing mute episodes which, in turn, caused a
vicious circle of anxiety.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that the compensation
award should be increased to £750 and that Cahoot should pay 8% interest on this amount.
I dont think its in dispute that Cahoot knew about Mr Js disability. Also, that he is a
vulnerable customer here, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on the
subject.
That means the impact of Cahoots mistake and handling of this situation here was far
greater on him than it likely would have been for others in the same situation. This is further
compounded by the fact that the payment here was in relation to a difficult situation where
he was unable to work, and the missing cheque was really important to him because of the
impact on his finances.
When Mr J informed Cahoot that his account hadnt been credited there was no
investigation, and had Cahoot looked into the matter and checked transactions, it is likely
that the error could have been spotted and rectified in a much quicker period of time.
Instead, Cahoot left it to Mr J to investigate and resolve the matter himself and this took
many months  in part because it was difficult for him to do so.
To add to this, Mr J says he asked for Cahoots help and I cant see any offer of support on
file, such as helping with correspondence. When Cahoot realised they had made an error, I
was surprised to read that the funds were returned to the payee as this meant Mr J would
have to wait longer for his funds. Also, the senior complaints manager, who knew about Mr
Js circumstances, experience, acknowledges his disability, doesnt appear to offer Mr J
assistance in the meantime.
Having established that Mr J is vulnerable under the above FCA definition and that Cahoot
were aware of his disability and there is no evidence of support being offered, I looked
closely at the impact of Cahoots action on Mr J.
Mr J describes the experience as horrendous and he feels that the bank ignored his needs
at a crucial time. Mr J explained that he felt ignored and neglected by Cahoot staff and
describes repeated stonewalling and how this made him feel unworthy and inferior. He was
left wondering whether Santander recording the details of his disability on his customer
profile led to Cahoot staff making a stereotype assumption about his mental capacity.
Mr J also describes the reality of Cahoots lack of help and deflecting of blame onto others.
Mr J found it necessary to communicate verbally and he found this extremely exhausting. He
says he needed to prepare and rehearse to deliver his messages as he was left to speak to
lots of different organisations and departments. He describes how this caused delay, trauma
and distress and he had days where he was unable to communicate because he was mute.
In considering what Mr J has said about this impact, Im persuaded by his testimony around
just how significant this was on his mental and physical health.
Having considered the above, I dont think Cahoot have recognised Mr Js vulnerability and
the severe impact of their mistake and actions when offering £250 compensation. This
service looks at the impact of a financial business mistake on an individual, and in Mr Js
case, this meant that Cahoots error had a greater impact given his health and personal
circumstances.
Overall, I dont consider Cahoot treated Mr J fairly or reasonably. They ought to have
identified that he was vulnerable from his customer profile and looked into his cheque
payment. In making an award for fair compensation, Ive looked at all the circumstances and
the impact any mistakes have had on Mr J and given careful consideration to Mr Js
individual circumstances.Having done so, I consider the amount offered to be inadequate and award £750. This
award recognises the considerable distress and inconvenience caused as well as the impact
on his health and well-being.
Ive also thought about the fact that Mr J has been without this money for a period of time
and has been deprived of the use of this too. In these circumstances, this service would
award 8% simple yearly interest for the time a customer has been without the use of these
funds and I think that would be fair here too.
I dont know whether Mr J has now been able to replace and cash this cheque, in which this
amount would be payable from the date he first paid in the cheque to the date he
successfully cashed it. Or if he hasnt yet done that, I think itd be fair for the 8% to be
payable from the date Mr J first tried to pay the cheque to his account  until the date any
final decision is accepted. If Santander considers it necessary to deduct tax from any interest
award it should provide Mr J with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from
HMRC if appropriate.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I plan to uphold this complaint and award £750 and tell
Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot to add 8% simple interest to the amount of the cheque,
in line with the above. Mr J should confirm whether he has been able to cash a replacement
cheque, or whether this remains outstanding.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 15 December
2022. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
Cahoot said:
To bring the complaint to a resolution, we will agree the additional £500 compensation, to 
bring the total amount to £750 as £250 has already been paid at stage 1 and apply 8% to the 
amount of the cheque from the date Mr J first paid the cheque in to the date of the decision 
is accepted.
Mr J sent me a detailed response about the impact of the error and his experience. He 
concluded by saying:
I believe the full extent of the impact this has had upon me still isnt being fully considered, I 
believe it inappropriate to describe it as just a difficulty communicating, when this doesnt 
come close to considering the wider Burnout effects of the abhorrent discrimination, disability 
abuse inflicted upon me by my own bank.
Mr J didnt confirm whether he has been able to cash a replacement cheque, or whether this 
remains outstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, I should explain this services role isnt to make a finding under disability legislation 
as thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to decide what should be done to put right any 
financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced where we think a 
business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
My provisional decision summarised Mr Js disability and the impact of Cahoots error. I 
apologise for not adequately communicating Mr Js description of the impact Cahoots 
actions had on his physical and neurological health and wellbeing. Also, Mr Js feeling that 
Cahoot removed communication access and dictated a communication style which targeted 
his disability.
So, when reviewing Mr Js complaint again, I further considered these points. Having done 
so, Im still of the opinion that the impact on Mr J was severe and Cahoot didnt recognise his 
vulnerability. And, given Mr Js health, wellbeing and personal circumstances, I still think the 
compensation should be higher than the £250 which Cahoot offered. 
However, when considering all of the above factors, including our role, I think the provisional 
decision compensation amount to be fair and reasonable for this complaint.
Putting things right
As a result, Im still asking Cahoot to pay £500 compensation to Mr J, which due to them 
having already paid £250, brings the total amount to £750. 
Also, Santander UK Plc (trading as Cahoot) should add 8% simple interest to the amount of 
the cheque. I dont know whether Mr J has now been able to replace and cash this cheque, 
in which case this amount would be payable from the date he first paid in the cheque to the 
date he successfully cashed it. Or if he hasnt yet done that, I think itd be fair for the 8% to 
be payable from the date Mr J first tried to pay the cheque to his account  until the date any 
final decision is accepted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc (trading as Cahoot) to pay £500 compensation to Mr J, which 
due to them having already paid £250, brings the total amount to £750. 
Also, Santander UK Plc (trading as Cahoot) should add 8% simple interest to the amount of 
the cheque. This amount would be payable from the date Mr J first paid in the cheque to the 
date he successfully cashed it. Or if he hasnt yet done that, from the date Mr J first tried to 
pay the cheque to his account  until the date any final decision is accepted. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman