DRN-3012267
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Next Retail Limited didnt make clear to her the potential impact of her 
entering into an arrangement to pay. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In 2019 when Mrs M was facing financial difficulties she contacted Next about what options 
were available to her since she was unable to make her required payments. Next said it 
could put a long term or a short term plan in place, but asked her if she wished to seek any 
free and impartial advice from a debt management company? If yes we would be able to 
hold your account for 30 days to allow you the time to seek advice.
It went on to say that: The long term payment plan allows you to repay your full balance 
over a long period. To do this we would need to register a default on your account and this 
would remain on your credit file for 6 years and can be viewed by other lenders if you are 
applying for credit. It would also mean that you would no longer be able to spend on credit 
with Next, however the plan does allow you to repay an affordable amount towards the 
account, and all interest and charges would be suspended. If you are wanting to go ahead 
with this plan, we would need you to confirm that you are happy for a default to be registered 
on your credit file.
Mrs M went with the long term plan and an entry was made on her credit file which she says 
impaired her efforts to get a mortgage subsequently. 
I appreciate she was under some pressure at the time and may not have appreciated the 
implications of having a default on her credit file. But Next offered her breathing space to 
take advice and it made it clear that a default would be registered if she chose the payment 
plan. It is not authorised to give financial advice and so it was not in a position to advise what 
solution to choose. Furthermore, it didnt have a full picture of her financial status.
I appreciate that Mrs M was going through a difficult time, but she was given the opportunity 
to take free advice and if there was a viable alternative she would have been able to explore 
this, but I cannot say Next was responsible for her decision. It told her about the fact her 
account would be defaulted and I acknowledge she preferred just to accept the option and 
forget about it. However, I do not believe Next was obliged to do any more than it did.
I consider it was supportive and it assisted her with a suitable solution at the time. While it is 
regrettable that this had an impact several years later I cannot say that Next did anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman