DRN-3610836
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that TSB Bank plc froze his account for six days without warning him.
What happened
TSB blocked two of Mr Ws outgoing transactions due to fraud concerns. When Mr W called 
and verified the transactions successfully, but he was then told his account had been flagged 
for a security check due to a recent large incoming payment. He was asked to send in proof 
of entitlement, and it seems he was told it could be up to five working days before the 
investigation was completed. 
Mr W is unhappy with the service on the call: he feels he was treated as though he had 
committed fraud, and this overshadowed the initial reason for the call. He says it lasted an 
hour and a half and he was transferred between departments about six times. The large 
payment in had been received serval weeks prior yet no action was taken until this point. 
The call also dropped leaving him confused so he had to call in again. He says the stress 
then caused during the six days he had no access to his money was unacceptable - he had 
not been told the whole account would be frozen.
TSB apologised for the poor service and offered Mr W £50 compensation. He rejected this 
saying the stress this had caused merited between £500 and £1,000 compensation and he 
wants the assurance this will never happen again.   
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. He said TSB had made no errors with the 
blocks or freezing his account, and it had reinstated access within five working days in line 
with its policy. But he felt Mr Ws personal circumstances meant a higher award of £100 was 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with this assessment TSB asked for an ombudsmans review. It said it did not 
understand why it should pay a higher award. It had applied the block in line with its terms 
and finished its investigation within the expected timescales - and we had agreed with this. 
We have not made clear what its error was.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that under the terms of the account TSB has the right to block certain 
transactions, and in some circumstances to suspend account access. And it has been 
established that Mr W was aware the investigation could take up to five working days. TSB 
met this timeline. We cannot ask the bank to provide assurances that Mr Ws account 
access may not be suspended in the future as this can be a measure it needs to take to 
protect its customers. 
Where I find TSB failed however was in the service it provided. Unfortunately TSB has not 
been able to provide the call recording from Mr Ws first call to fraud, only one of his second 
call the following day. But this provides useful contemporaneous testimony in the absence of 
the initial call recording. On it Mr W raises that he was on a call for one and a half hours the 
previous day, that he was transferred between multiple departments and most critically that 
he wasnt told his whole account would be frozen until the investigation was completed. Had 
he known this I think he could have minimised the stress and inconvenience he suffered so it 
was important information. I appreciate I cannot verify Mr Ws recollections but, on balance, I 
find they are credible and most likely accurate given he was describing what had happened 
only the day before.
And TSB has already acknowledged in its final response letter in reference to Mr Ws call 
with fraud that this is not the level of service we strive for and I am sorry we let you down 
here. At this stage it offered £50 compensation. I agree with the investigator that £100 is 
more suitable. As both parties are aware there were a number of factors in Mr Ws personal 
circumstances that meant these service failings was more stressful for Mr W than they may 
have been for another account holder. 
Putting things right
TSB must now pay Mr W £100 compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint in part. TSB Bank plc must now put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman