DRN-2971488
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy because the HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not fully reimburse the 
money he transferred to a fraudster as a result of falling victim to an authorised push 
payment (APP) email intercept scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Mr N was having renovation works completed on his property. The works 
had started in November 2019 and Mr N had agreed with the building company to stage 
payments for £16,800 every two weeks with Mr N receiving email invoices in regard to the 
payments. Mr N had made four payments up to and including 29 December 2019.
On 30 December 2019 Mr N, while on holiday abroad, received an email from whom he 
believed was his builder. It advised Mr N that the bank account details on the invoice he had 
recently received were incorrect as they no longer banked with that bank. It asked Mr N 
whether he wanted a revised invoice or the new bank details sent by email. It also explained 
that if the invoice had been paid already Mr N didnt have to worry and it would get sorted.
When Mr N returned to the UK, he met with the builder on the morning of 10 January 2020. 
Mr N says he asked about the change of bank details  with the builder advising that the 
bank details hadnt been changed.
A few hours later Mr N received an email at 12:23pm again from whom he thought was the 
builder. It apologised for the mix up and that the email Mr N received previously had been 
sent by a colleague. The email then went on to confirm they had actually stopped banking 
with their previous bank (at the end of 2019) and that they now banked with HSBC  and it 
attached the invoice for payment. 
A further email was sent at 17:35pm. It reiterated the mix-up and that the new details were 
on the invoice. The email then listed six-points in relation to the building works that Mr N had 
discussed with the builder that morning. Satisfied, Mr N went ahead and made a payment for 
£16,800.
Unbeknown to Mr N, the building companys email had been hacked, and the email 
correspondence of 30 December 2019 and 10 January 2020 had been intercepted and 
manipulated by a fraudster. This meant Mr N paid £16,800 to a fraudster.
The scam came to light when a request was made to Mr N to bring forward the next staged 
payment. Mr N contacted the builder on 15 January 2020 who explained that they hadnt 
made the request. Mr N showed the builder the emails, and while they had come from the 
correct email address, the builder hadnt in fact sent them.
Mr N reported the scam to Santander the same day.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme HSBC has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.  
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
HSBC wrote out to Mr N on the 30 January 2020. It explained that it could have done more 
to protect Mr N, but felt Mr N could have conducted more checks prior to making the 
payment. As a result it offered 50% of the money Mr N lost.
Unhappy Mr N complained to HSBC. On 30 March 2020 HSBC issued its final response to 
Mr N. It remained of the opinion that shared liability for the loss was fair. It explained that it 
didnt have appropriate fraud warnings in place and had refunded Mr N 50% (£8,400) but 
considered Mr N had made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief as they hadnt 
carried out any checks to ensure the person or business with whom they transacted with 
was a legitimate person or business. So it considered Mr N should bear some responsibility 
for the loss also.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr N referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator found that Mr N had a reasonable basis for belief. While Mr N had spoken 
with the builder on the morning of 10 January 2020, and the builder advised the bank details 
hadnt been changed, the investigator was satisfied that the following email correspondence 
overcome any concerns Mr N had. They considered the subsequent email correspondence 
had come from the genuine email address and in which the email explained the mix-up and 
provided a reason as to the bank details changing and also referenced the works Mr N had 
only just discussed with the builder that morning. 
The investigator said HSBC ought to refund the outstanding amount Mr N lost as result of 
the scam and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date the claim should have 
been refunded under the Code. 
HSBC disagreed, it remained of the opinion that Mr N did not have a reasonable basis of 
belief when making the payment that the person with whom he was transacting with, was 
legitimate. 
As the matter, wasnt resolved, it was passed for an ombudsmans review and decision.
In preparing the case for an ombudsmans review, the investigator reviewed the 
compensation that they had awarded. 
Prior to making the payment from his current account which unfortunately went to the 
fraudster, Mr N transferred money into the current account from his savings account.The investigator, upon reflection, considered that in returning Mr N to the position he would 
have been in had things not gone wrong, then as the funds had originated from Mr Ns 
savings account, fair compensation would be for the return of the outstanding amount lost, 
plus additional compensation at the applicable savings account rate. The investigator 
considered this would put Mr N back into the position, as far as is possible, had things not 
gone wrong.
Mr N responded thanking the investigator for the explanation on the amended redress.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I am satisfied that under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have 
refunded the money Mr N lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
HSBC has refunded Mr N 50% of the amount Mr N lost as it says it didnt have appropriate 
fraud warnings in place. 
However it considers Mr N could have done more to protect their funds before making the 
payment. HSBCs main concern is that when Mr N spoke with the builder on the morning of 
10 January 2020 and Mr N asked about the change of bank details, the builder advised the 
bank details hadnt changed. HSBC considers that this should have reasonably given Mr N a 
cause for concern and he should have carried out further checks prior to making the 
payment.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr N had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular I am not persuaded that the consumer failed to take the requisite 
level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that the consumer lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Mr N hadnt been the victim of an email intercept scam before. This was a 
sophisticated email intercept scam. It isnt in doubt that the emails in question came 
from the fraudster  and it seems the fraudster was monitoring the builders account 
and was able to have sight of all email traffic / correspondence and manipulate all the 
information to their advantage when communicating with Mr N.
I appreciate HSBCs concern that Mr N had mentioned to the builder on the morning 
of 10 January 2020 that he had received an email saying the bank details had 
changed with the builder advising they hadnt. But importantly, Mr N didnt make the 
payment at that point. Mr N only made the payment following further correspondence 
which explained that the bank details had changed and the reasons why. 
Having reviewed both emails Mr N received following his conversation with the 
builder on the morning of 10 January 2020, I can see they came from the builders 
genuine email address. The emails, importantly, explain that there was a mix-up in 
regard to the bank details, and that the bank details had changed, and it provided the 
reason why. 
 Also, in the email at 17:35pm which reiterated the mix-up about the bank details, the 
email also referenced six-points in relation to the building works that Mr N had only 
just spoken to the builder about that morning.The account where payment was being made to (the scammers account) had the 
same sort code as Mr Ns  so Mr N considered this added an extra level of 
plausibility as the sort code was for the same branch that Mr N held his account, 
which Mr N thought was reasonable for the builder to have, as they also were based 
in that city.
So, given the email address was from the genuine builders email address, the 
explanation around the bank details and the reason for them changing, and that the 
works Mr N and the builder had just spoken about that morning were also detailed 
within the email, I can see why Mr N didnt consider he had a cause for concern and 
believed he was liaising with his genuine builder and ultimately had a reasonable 
basis of belief when making the payment.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the remaining amount (£8,400) Mr N lost as a result of the scam within 28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
If HSBC UK Bank Plc had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have 
done, the money would have more likely than have remained in Mr Ns savings 
account. So, HSBC UK Bank Plc should also pay interest calculated at the savings 
account rate from the date it should reasonably have refunded Mr N under the CRM 
Code, to the date of payment. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman