DRN-4071230
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided him with a 
credit account with a credit limit of £200, which mean he couldnt avail of a promotional offer 
which required him to spend £3,000 on the account in the first three months.
What happened
Mr C applied for a Barclays credit account because he wanted to take advantage of a 
promotional offer on the account. However, while Barclays did approve Mr Ms credit 
application, they only provided Mr C with a credit limit of £200, which meant Mr M wasnt 
able to meet the criteria required by the promotional offer, one of which was that Mr M 
needed to spend £3,000 on the credit account in the first three months. 
Mr C asked Barclays to increase his credit limit, and Barclays asked Mr C to provide income 
verification (IV) documents via an online portal for them to consider doing so. Mr C 
uploaded his IV documents to the portal, but Barclays told him that they hadnt received any 
documents and so declined to increase his credit limit. Mr C wasnt happy about this, or that 
Barclays wouldnt remove the credit search hed incurred on his credit file through opening 
the credit account. So, he closed his account and raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr C and confirmed they hadnt received the IV documents and so 
didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by not increasing the credit limit on the account. But 
Barclays did accept that it hadnt been explained to Mr C that he might not be given an initial 
credit limit sufficient to avail of the promotional offer, and they paid £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr C incurred because of this. Barclays also paid a further £25 to Mr C 
because one of the calls he made to them had been ended prematurely. Mr C wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed what had happened. Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
Like all credit providers, Barclays have an obligation to ensure that theyre not knowingly 
providing more credit to a consumer than that consumer can reasonably afford to repay. 
Barclays have explained that when they assessed Mr Cs credit account application, they 
werent able to verify Mr Cs income through the information they received from the credit 
reference agencies during the application credit check. And so, to mitigate against providing 
an unaffordable level of credit to Mr C, Barclays initially only gave Mr C a credit limit of £200 
which could be reviewed upon receipt of IV documents from Mr C. This seems reasonable to 
me, and I dont feel Barclays acted unfairly by providing Mr C with the initial credit limit of 
£200, pending the receipt of IV documents, as they did. 
Mr C has explained that he did provide IV documents to Barclays via the online portal he 
was instructed to use. But Barclays maintain that they didnt receive any IV documents from 
Mr C, and so werent able to consider increasing his credit limit. 
I have no reason to doubt either party here, but if Mr C did send the documents as he 
maintains, it seems clear from Barclays system notes that they were never received by 
them. Indeed, I note that Barclays requested IV documents from Mr C on 18 November 
2022, the day the account was opened, and several more times over the next few weeks.
Given that Barclays didnt receive the IV documents they required  regardless of the reason 
why this was the case  Im satisfied that it was fair for Barclays to have declined to increase 
the credit limit as Mr C was wanting. Im aware that Mr C has explained that one Barclays 
staff member he spoke with said they could see that Mr C had uploaded the IV documents, 
but nothing in the information Ive seen  which includes the system account notes  
corroborates Mr C in this regard, but instead indicates that no IV documents were received.
Mr C also feels that Barclays shouldnt have approved his application if they werent willing 
to provide him with a credit limit sufficient to avail of the promotional offer on the credit 
account. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays wouldnt have been willing to 
provide a higher credit limit to Mr C if theyd received IV documents from him that merited 
the provision of a higher credit limit. 
I can appreciate why Mr C would have been unhappy with what happened here, and Im 
unsure why he wasnt able to provide his IV documents to Barclays. But Barclays have 
confirmed that they reimbursed the monthly account charge to Mr C when he chose to close 
the account, and so Im satisfied that Mr C hasnt incurred any financial detriment through 
having the account for the short period that he did. 
Im aware that Mr C would like Barclays to remove the credit search from his credit file which 
they performed on him as part of the account application process. But I dont feel that 
Barclays have done anything wrong here, and Mr C did apply for a credit account with them, 
and so Im satisfied that the credit search is a fair and accurate report of what happened. 
Finally, I also feel the payments of £50 and £25 that Barclays made to Mr C for not clearly 
explaining to him that he might not be given a credit limit sufficient to avail of the promotional 
offer and for the abrupt termination of one of the phone calls respectively are fair payments 
for those specific matters, and I can confirm that theyre commensurate with what I may 
have instructed Barclays to have paid, had they not already done so.  
All of which means that, while I feel that it was unfortunate that Mr C couldnt provide the IV 
documents to Barclays to enable them to consider increasing his credit limit beyond £200, 
Im not convinced that this was because of any mistake or error make by Barclays and so I 
dont feel that it was unfair. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I realise this might not be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman