DRN-4088566
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Seedrs Limited has failed to remove 
statements on its crowdfunding platform relating to it. P says this has caused distress and 
threats to its directors. 
What happened
Seedrs is an online crowdfunding platform designed to assist startups and unlisted 
companies who wish to raise capital through issuing shares to investors. Companies, such 
as P, pitch their investment opportunity to Seedrs investors via marketing campaigns hosted 
on the platform.
In 2019, P used Seedrs crowdfunding platform to promote two rounds of funding in the 
business. Investors were able to purchase shares after viewing the promotion on Seedrs 
website. Information about the company was made available within the promotion. There 
was a section that provided updates and also the ability for investors to place comments on 
a post investment discussion thread. In 2020, P raised further capital offline. Following this a 
dispute arose regarding Seedrs investors rights to a join a retrospective pre-emption round. 
This led to updates and posts being made on Seedrs website. 
P contacted Seedrs after reviewing updates about investors ability to participate in a pre-
emption share issue. It was unhappy about comments made by investors about P on the 
post investment discussion, so asked Seedrs to remove the posts. P felt there were 
statements that were inflammatory and encouraged trolling of its directors. When the posts 
werent removed, P raised a complaint with Seedrs about the situation, setting out which 
posts it wanted removed.  
Seedrs responded to the complaint. In summary it said:
- There is an ongoing dispute between Seedrs and P regarding the missed pre-
emption round. The updates it provided were intended to keep investors informed on 
the status of their investments and did this by providing Seedrs point of view on the 
ongoing dispute. It didnt consider any of the content to be deliberately inflammatory 
or misleading in nature. 
- In respect of the posts made by other investors, it agreed to remove one post. But 
said it considered the other posts highlighted by P to be acceptable use of the 
discussion section on the website. It acknowledged that investors had expressed 
dissatisfaction but said as long as the language used is not abusive, trolling, spam, 
or otherwise inappropriate (in accordance with paragraph 5.6 of the Seedrs 
Membership Agreement) it wouldnt be removing the posts.
P didnt agree with what Seedrs said and referred the complaint to this service. It said 
Seedrs has caused significant distress and upset through its publication of inflammatory 
statements and the encouragement of trolling. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt find Seedrs had treated P unfairly or done anything wrong. She 
acknowledged that P had found the posts to be inflammatory but didnt think Seedrs 
decision not to remove them was unreasonable as she felt it had discretion to exercise its 
judgement on this. 
P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on the complaint. 
It summary it said:
- Seedrs initiated trolling aimed at Ps directors and fellow investors through the 
publication of misleading and inflammatory statements. The update statements 
Seedrs provided were incorrect. The company did offer Seedrs investors the 
opportunity to participate in the pre-emption investment round, but it didnt receive a 
reply by the deadline set. It applied the process set out in the Articles of Association.
- Seedrs failed to remove posts that met the definition of trolling  it felt the posts 
were inflammatory, insincere, digressive, extraneous, or off-topic messages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge there is a dispute between P and Seedrs about the pre-emption share 
rights of Seedrs investors following the 2020 offline raise. But in deciding this complaint, I am 
not required to reach a conclusion on this dispute. So I havent investigated this issue and 
will not be commenting on the actual dispute. I will only refer to it where it has relevance to 
the complaint Im considering. 
Ps complaint centres around the information that was posted on Seedrs website. The first 
issue relates to the update posted by Seedrs in early December 2020. Ive reviewed the 
information in the updates including the response P posted itself and the further responses 
from Seedrs. These posts clearly set out the background to a dispute between the two 
parties. The content in the initial Seedrs update, in my view, is informative and factual. It 
does say P has decided not to offer pre-emption shares to investors. While this point is at 
the heart of the dispute, the information provided isnt critical of P and I dont find the 
language used as inflammatory. P responded with its view of events, which it is entitled to. 
Seedrs then provided further information on the dispute and another brief response, which 
confirms the disagreement and seeks to distance itself from accusing P of dishonesty. Im 
satisfied these are balanced responses, which dont encourage others to troll Ps directors. 
So, in this situation, I dont find it reasonable to required Seedrs to remove the posts. 
Turning to the posts on the discussion page. Seedrs explained it does not actively monitor 
this section of the website, and this was disclosed to both investors and investee 
businesses. But where concerns are raised, it may intervene at its discretion to remove 
posts it considers to be abusive, trolling, spam, or otherwise inappropriate. It has referred 
to paragraph 5.6 of the membership agreement. This says: 
5.6 Interactions with Other Seedrs Members. You are solely responsible for your 
interactions with other Seedrs members. We reserve the right, but are not obliged, to monitor 
actions and disputes between you and other Seedrs members, and we reserve the right to 
remove any communications that you post that we consider to be abusive, trolling, spam, or 
otherwise inappropriate (including any discussion of commencing legal action).
I note Seedrs agreed to remove one post as it felt it breached the above but didnt feel any of 
the remaining posts needed to be removed. P has highlighted several posts from investors 
that it would like removed. Ive considered the above information from the membership 
agreement and reviewed the remaining posts on the discussion page. The first thing I would say is that Seedrs didnt agree to monitor the interactions between parties but only said it 
would remove anything that it considered to be inappropriate for specific reasons.
Having reviewed everything, Im not persuaded Seedrs needs to take any further action. I 
can understand why P would like the posts removed. But in my opinion the decision Seedrs 
made not to remove posts isnt unfair or shows that it has acted outside of the terms of the 
membership agreement. Clearly, there is an underlying issue regarding the dispute between 
the parties about pre-emptive rights. But as previously mentioned, I wont be commenting on 
any wrongdoing of either of the parties on this subject. Im satisfied Seedrs had discretion to 
remove post that it found inappropriate, and it has exercised that discretion in a way that has 
treated P fairly. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont require Seedrs to do anything further. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to P, but I havent found grounds to uphold the complaint or make 
an award of compensation that it claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman