DRN-3472749
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with Lex 
Autolease Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr K under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease that he signed in 
June 2018. There were some issues with the cars sat-nav and with oil dilution so the car 
was returned to the dealer for repairs. Mr K was told that the oil dilution issue was caused by 
his driving style. He complained to Lex Autolease about the car in May 2021 but it said there 
hadnt been excessive warranty repairs required to the car and it didnt support his request to 
end the agreement early. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that he would 
like Lex Autolease to terminate the agreement and refund his initial rental and monthly 
payments. Lex Autolease then offered to end the agreement early and to pay £250 to Mr K 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator recommended that 
his complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded that the oil dilution issues related to the 
diesel particulate filter and that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Mr K had said that he 
wanted to keep the car so she recommended that Lex Autolease should reimburse Mr K for 
the repair costs of £167.11 that he incurred in January 2020, with interest, and that it should 
pay him £300 compensation.
Lex Autolease says, in summary, that:
it doesnt agree that theres a manufacturing defect with the car and theres no 
evidence of an issue with the diesel particulate filter;
Mr K has confirmed that he doesnt do the necessary driving cycles to allow diesel 
particulate filter regenerations to complete and has acknowledged that he was 
provided with information about the diesel particulate filter system but didnt sign it;
it has offered to terminate the agreement but Mr K says that he wants to retain the 
car; and
it agrees to reimburse Mr K for some repair costs but has asked for an explanation of 
the increase in compensation from £250 to £300.
Mr K says, in summary, that:
the car was mis-sold to him as the manufacturer knew about the fault; and
if Lex Autolease had allowed him to return the car after discovering the problem with 
the diesel particulate filter he would have done so but now theres a shortage of cars 
and long delivery times so hes forced to keep the car until the car that hes ordered 
is delivered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Lex Autolease, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr K was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there was an issue with the cars sat-nav that was repaired under warranty in June 
2019 - but it was noted that the oil dilution was high and an oil and filter change was 
recommended and took place under the warranty;
the oil and filter were changed again in January 2020 for which Mr K paid £167.11 
and they were changed again in February 2022 at the manufacturers cost and the 
cars mileage was recorded in February 2022 as 29,618 miles (there were also 
warranty repairs to the sat-nav and boot latch in January and November 2020);
Lex Autolease says that it couldnt see that the requirements of driving a diesel car 
with a diesel particulate filter had been fully explained to Mr K and that the issues 
with oil dilution were caused by Mr Ks driving style  but Mr K had driven the car for 
more than 29,000 miles between June 2018 and February 2022 and Im not 
persuaded that its likely that the issues with oil dilution were caused by Mr Ks 
driving style;
I consider it to me more likely than not that the oil dilution issues were caused by an 
issue with the cars diesel particulate filter that was either present or developing when 
the car was supplied to Mr K and which caused the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality at that time;
Lex Autolease has offered to end the agreement early but Mr K says that he wants to 
keep the car until the car that hes ordered is delivered to him;
Mr K has had the car since June 2018 and hed used it to drive more than 29,000 
miles between then and February 2022 and hes continued to use it since then  I 
consider that its fair and reasonable that he should pay for the use that hes had 
from the car so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Lex Autolease to refund to him all, or any part of, his initial rental or the monthly 
rentals that hes paid for the car  I consider that its fair and reasonable for Lex 
Autolease to keep those payments as payment for the use that Mr K has had from 
the car;
our investigator recommended that Lex Autolease should reimburse Mr K for the 
repair costs of £167.11 that he incurred in January 2020 and I find that its fair and 
reasonable for it to reimburse those costs to him, with interest; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr K and Lex 
Autolease has offered to pay him £250 compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience  but our investigator recommended that the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr K had been caused justified an award of £300 compensation  
and I agree with our investigator that it would also be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Lex Autolease to pay £300 to Mr K to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Lex Autolease to 
reimburse £167.11 to Mr K for the repair costs that hes incurred, with interest, and to pay 
him £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused. I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Lex Autolease to pay a 
higher amount of compensation to Mr K or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and I order Lex Autolease Limited to:
1. Pay £167.11 to Mr K to reimburse him for the repair costs that he incurred in 
January 2020.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay £300 to Mr K to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lex Autolease to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Lex Autolease must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman