DRN-3200306
The complaint
Mr B and Miss Gs complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to their application 
for a further advance on their mortgage. They feel the Santanders advisors misled them by 
stating that if they cleared some of their debt first, then they would be able to borrow a higher 
sum.
What happened
Mr B called Santander on 17 May 2021 and spoke to a MA. He said he wanted to purchase 
a buy to-let property and would like a further advance on the joint mortgage he had with Miss 
G. The advisor said that Mr B could borrow £31,000 and during their discussions Mr B recent 
said he had purchased a taxi on another loan a few days earlier. When asked about the 
impact of that loan on his application, the advisor did say that if Mr B didnt have the taxi loan 
commitment he could probably borrow up to £91,000.
On 20 May Mr B called Santander and said he wished to apply for the larger sum hed 
previously discussed and that he had decided to repay his taxi loan and would be doing so. 
On 24 May Mr B rang again to say he had paid off the taxi loan but had a credit card balance 
of £3,000 and there was some discussion about that and the impact it would have on any 
application. When Mr B and Miss G then applied for a further advance the advisor said they 
could only borrow £17,000 and so they complained as they felt they had been misled into 
paying off their existing debt.
Santander investigated their complaint but did not accept that it had told Mr B and Miss G to 
pay off their debts before making an application. But, it said it had given some incorrect 
advice during the call, concerning, (a) the retirement age it used in its Budget Planner tool; 
(b) that applications were subject to underwriting, and (c) advice about affordability. Because 
of these failures Santander offered Mr B and Miss G £100 in compensation. 
Mr B and Miss G were unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that the 
compensation offered for the accepted errors made was fair and reasonable. With regards to 
Mr B and Miss G being misled the investigator thought that there was no evidence of that, 
and so in this respect Santander hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B and Miss G didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key to this complaint lies in what the various advisors said to Mr B when he called. The 
advisors were different on each occasion. The first call on 17 May 2021 shows that Mr B 
disclosed that he had taken out a loan a few days previously for his taxi. During the 
discussion Mr B said that if it came down to it he could settle the loan amount. It is clear from 
this call that it was Mr B who made that suggestion of settling his loan and not the advisor. 
The advisor did however state that based on Mr Bs current financial position the maximum 
amount of any loan would be £31,000. That prompted Mr B to ask how much he could 
borrow if he paid his taxi loan off, and the advisor said it could be £91,000. At no point in this 
conversation did the advisor tell Mr B that he should redeem his taxi loan and made the point 
of saying that it was up to him. Santander do however accept the advisor did not clearly 
state that any application would still be subject to their underwriting and application process.
In a second call Mr B made on 20 May 2021 this advisor made it very clear that she could 
give no guarantees that Mr B would be able to obtain the amount he wanted if he paid his 
taxi loan off first. She also told Mr B that she couldnt tell him what to do regarding paying off 
his loan and that any application would be subject to further checks and an underwriters 
decision. This advice corrects the failure of the first advisor to give that correct information, 
and so from this point on Mr B knew what was to happen if he made an application. 
In a third call on 24 May Mr B told the advisor that he had paid off his taxi loan but had a 
£3,000 credit card balance and wondered whether that would affect his application. The 
advisor said the maximum sum he would be able to borrow would be £79,264 if his and his 
partners income were used. There was then a discussion about why he had previously been 
told £91,000 would be the maximum. The advisor explained that the issue was one of 
affordability. There was discussion about the credit card and how, if that was not taken into 
account, £91,000 would be affordable. But, the advisor also specifically stated that he could 
not advise Mr B to clear his credit card debt and that would remain Mr Bs decision. Further it 
was advised that any application would be subject to further income checks. The advisor 
also asked Mr B whether he had had any Covid loans to which he replied he hadnt.
In a fourth call, also on 24 May, Mr B began the application process. He told the advisor he 
had not received a loan or grant for his business as a result of Covid 19. He also said he 
hadnt paid off his credit card and was looking for a further advance of around £75,000. It 
was during this call that the incorrect retirement age was used by the advisor when using 
Santanders Budget Planner tool and that affected the maximum value of the loan to be 
offered. Santander also detected that this advisor did not mention that any application would 
be subject to an underwriting decision either. Whilst this is a failure, Santander had 
previously given the correct advice and so I am satisfied that Mr B would have known at that 
stage that his application was going to be subject to further checks. 
Having considered what was said by the various advisors to Mr B during all of these calls, 
the balance of evidence clearly shows that he was told that any application he made would 
be subject to further checks and an underwriters decision. The fact that on some occasions 
that was not mentioned does not alter the fact that when he came to make his application he 
knew what the process would be, because he had been told what it was.
Having made his application, in the light of the information then available, Santanders 
decision on the amount to lend Mr B and Miss G changed, and that was as a result of a 
change to the financial picture. Mr B had in fact obtained a Covid related loan when he had 
said he had not. I cant find fault with Santander in determining that it would not wish to lend 
as much as it first thought it provisionally could, since that provisional decision was based on 
wrong information supplied by Mr B. Santander are free to come to their own decisions on 
what they should lend, and I cannot interfere with that. All I can do is look to see whether 
Santander dealt with Mr B fairly, and I am satisfied that they did. Santander never gave any 
guarantee or assurance to Mr B that if his debts were repaid prior to any further advance 
application, that it would be successful, and it made it clear that the application would be 
subject to further checks.Santander has accepted that it didnt get things right in part, and because of that it offered 
Mr B and Miss G £100. As Mr B and Miss G didnt think that was enough to put matters right, 
Ive given this some further thought, and I think what Santander offered is fair and 
reasonable. The reason I say that is because although there were identified failures to 
mention the further checks and underwriters in some calls, they were mentioned in others, 
and this did not ultimately affect Mr B and Miss Gs decision to make the application. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B and Miss G £100 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr B and Miss G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman