DRN-2978239
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Protector Insurance UK (Protector) refused to cover the cost of 
asbestos works linked to her claim under her buildings insurance for water ingress.
Mrs D is the leaseholder of a flat within a block owned by a housing company. The housing 
company is the policyholder of the buildings insurance and has provided consent for this 
complaint. Mrs D, as the beneficiary of the insurance provision, has brought this complaint, 
so I will refer only to her throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mrs D sublets her property. Her letting agent identified water damage in a bedroom when 
arranging redecoration prior to a new tenant moving in. Protector appointed a loss adjuster 
(LA) who then instructed a surveyor to assess cracks in the lounge wall which the letting 
agent had pointed out. Protector accepted the claim.
The surveyor said a refurbishment and demolition (R&D) survey was mandatory to check for 
asbestos before repairs could be done. Mrs Ds letting agent questioned the need for it after 
advice from its own surveyor. She says the LA agreed to pay for the survey and electrical 
checks, although there was no record of the offer. Mrs Ds letting agent arranged the survey.
The R&D survey revealed asbestos throughout Mrs Ds property. Because of the intrusive 
nature of the survey, Mrs D incurred significant costs for the repair work. Protector agreed to 
pay for decoration of two bedrooms and the lounge, and removal of the ceiling in one 
bedroom inclusive of asbestos costs. 
Mrs D complained to Protector because she thought it should cover all the additional costs 
which she only incurred following the instruction from its surveyor. She also asked it to pay 
for loss of rent while the property was repaired. Protector agreed to cover reasonable costs 
for the survey up to £300, but it wouldnt cover the cost of repairs for damage caused during 
the survey or loss of rent.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Protector had offered to cover 
costs in line with the terms of the policy for the insured peril, and that, as the property 
remained habitable, loss of rent wasnt covered. Our investigator recommended that 
Protector pay 8% simple interest on the claim settlement.
Mrs D didnt agree. She remained of the view that Protector should cover all costs, including 
electrical testing, and address the stress and ongoing inconvenience shes been caused 
because of advice given by its LA.  
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
Protector accepted Mrs Ds claim under the buildings insurance policy, so theres no dispute 
that an insured event occurred. The issue, then, is whether Protector should cover the 
additional costs Mrs D incurred after following advice she says its LA and surveyor gave.
The policy confirms how Protector will settle a claim:
Section 1  Settling Claims
we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged parts of the buildings in a new 
condition similar in size, shape or design, including fees and other costs.
Fees and other costs mean architects, surveyors and legal fees necessarily incurred in 
repair and replacement.
Protector told Mrs D that she must have a survey before repairs to her home because the 
damaged area was likely constructed from asbestos containing materials (ACM). Mrs D 
arranged the survey, which involved making holes in the fabric of her property, revealing 
ACM throughout. The policy confirms that Protector will cover the cost of the surveyors fees, 
so I think its agreement to pay the reasonable cost of a survey up to £300 is fair. 
However, Mrs D thinks Protector should cover the cost of the repairs needed because of the 
damage caused during the survey. There are two considerations here.
The first is that Protector will cover the cost of repairs to the areas affected by the insured 
peril anyway, so the additional damage caused to those areas during the survey becomes 
irrelevant. Protector confirmed that it will cover the replacement of the bedroom ceiling, and 
redecoration of the two bedrooms and lounge, which necessarily means the survey damage 
will be repaired in those areas. I think thats fair and in line with the policy.
The second consideration is the damage caused to the rest of her property. Looking at the 
evidence, I havent seen anything which shows Protector told Mrs D she needed to have the 
survey done to the whole of her property. While its not necessarily clear that the survey was 
mandated for the damaged area only, I dont think its fair to hold Protector responsible for 
the remaining damage to the rest of the property. Thats because:
the policy only covers repairs for areas affected by the insured peril (water damage), 
and
the surveyor didnt act on behalf of Protector, so any damage it caused and failed to 
repair would be for Mrs D to raise directly with the ACM surveyor.
Moving on, Mrs D thinks Protector should cover the electrical testing and address the impact 
of the surveyors advice to have an asbestos register. Thats because she doesnt think 
Protector made it clear that it wasnt responsible for contractors appointed by Mrs D directly.
Im aware that the housing company wouldve needed to have an asbestos register for the 
common areas of the building only, so I dont think Protectors knowledge of that matters 
here. As the landlord of the property, Mrs D wouldve been responsible for understanding her 
own liability. I cant fairly say that it was Protectors responsibility as the insurer, to tell Mrs D 
what the legal requirements were for her as landlord. So, Ive considered Mrs Ds belief that 
Protector should cover the costs because she acted on its advice to arrange a survey. Under 
the exclusions section, the policy states:
Building Regulations, Local Authority or Legal Conditions
We will not pay the cost of meeting building regulations, local authority or legal conditions if 
you knew that you needed to meet any regulations or conditionsWe will not pay the cost 
of meeting any regulations or conditions if they apply to any undamaged parts of the 
buildings.
While Mrs D says she didnt know about the asbestos register, Im satisfied that Protector 
reasonably expected that she ought to have done. So, in line with the policy, Protector is not responsible for paying the costs related to the asbestos work, or the costs for meeting legal 
requirements for electrical testing.
I note the policy excludes cover for any costs or expenses incurred if the damage was not 
caused by an insured peril. Any damage caused by a third party acting under Mrs Ds 
instruction is not, therefore, covered under the policy. I cant see any reason for Protector to 
tell Mrs D, expressly, that it wasnt responsible for her ACM surveyors actions, nor can I see 
any evidence to suggest that it implied any responsibility. For these reasons, I wont be 
asking Protector to do any more here.
The final issue Ill address is Mrs Ds loss of rent. It seems that the additional time taken to 
prepare the property for a new tenant was, at least in part, due to the asbestos related 
repairs. As explained above, Protector wasnt responsible for the actions of the ACM 
surveyor, so it follows that I cant fairly hold it responsible for the impact on Mrs Ds rental 
income. The policy provides cover for loss of rent in certain circumstances where the 
property is uninhabitable, and those circumstances are defined. The original water damage 
didnt cause loss of washing and cooking facilities, so the peril didnt meet the definition of 
uninhabitable. So, for these two reasons, Im satisfied that protector is not liable for covering 
any loss of rent.
Our investigators view said that Protectors handling of Mrs Ds claim was fair and that no 
additional action was needed. As Ive explained above, Im of the same opinion for broadly 
the same reasons. However, I understand that simple interest at a rate of 8% was included 
by mistake when confirming the actions Protector had already offered to Mrs D. If I thought 
Protector shouldve done more, then interest for Mrs Ds loss of use of the funds used to pay 
for additional repairs mightve been appropriate. However, as Protector had already made a 
fair offer, interest isnt something Id award here. Thats because Mrs D couldve accepted its 
offer and had use of the funds. To be clear, then, Im not asking Protector to pay interest on 
any reimbursement to Mrs D.
Because of any confusion caused, Ive decided that its fair for both parties to have another 
opportunity to comment on the outcome. 
For clarity, Im satisfied that Protector made a fair offer to settle Mrs Ds claim and I dont 
plan to ask it to do any more than it has already offered. If Mrs D accepts my provisional 
decision, Protector will:
reimburse the costs of the R&D survey up to a maximum of £300, and
reimburse the agreed repairs to the bedroom and lounge redecoration, less the policy 
excess.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Protector didnt make any further submissions.
Mrs D responded to say she was unhappy with my provisional decision and repeated the 
main points of her complaint. She said Protector didnt tell her that she neednt have had a 
full asbestos check done and remains of the view that its responsible for the costs of all 
repairs and electrical testing. However, Mrs D accepted that she wasnt due any loss of rent 
because washing and cooking facilities were still available.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I respond to Mrs Ds comments, Id like to clarify a couple of points. Mrs D isnt 
expected to have detailed insurance knowledge, which she believes was implied. The policy 
documents set out the relevant parts of her insurance cover, and I referred to those 
documents simply to explain which terms I looked at when reaching my provisional decision. 
Also, I understand Mrs Ds frustration regarding the matter of the 8% interest on the 
reimbursement. Id like to reassure her that there was no intention to suggest she shouldnt 
have used our service. If Protector hadnt offered to reimburse costs which I thought it 
shouldve done, then Id have considered awarding interest. However, because I was 
satisfied that it had already offered a fair settlement, I didnt see any reason to ask it to add 
interest. Mrs Ds use of our service hasnt impacted that decision.
Moving on, Mrs D says the surveyor instructions didnt make it clear that she only needed an 
asbestos survey of the affected areas. She also says Protector didnt tell her she needed to 
use its contractors. But, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs D was required to use 
Protectors contractors, or that it said she should have a full asbestos survey of the whole 
property. Here, the issue is that Mrs D arranged the R&D survey herself, so I cant hold 
Protector responsible for it or for the amount of work done. And in the absence of any 
documented instructions saying Protector would cover the cost, I cant see any reason to ask 
it to reimburse the cost, or that of the electrical and appliance testing.
Mrs D thinks her complaint should be upheld because she acted according to instructions 
and she incurred costs completing work which she was told was necessary. She says 
theres an implication that she should have expert knowledge of the asbestos register. Ive 
thought about this point more broadly. I dont think theres any suggestion that Mrs D has 
been negligent  indeed thats not something I can decide anyway. I think the issue is that 
Mrs D lets her property, so theres an expectation that shed have an awareness of her 
responsibilities as a landlord. I understand she employs a letting agent, so its likely Mrs D 
reasonably relies on the agents awareness. But what is clear to me, is that Protector isnt 
responsible for her necessary costs of being a landlord  such as electrical testing 
certificates and asbestos registers.
I can understand that the additional costs Mrs D incurred may have come as a shock to her. 
But as she/her letting agent arranged for the work to be done, not Protector, I cant fairly say 
Protector has done anything wrong by refusing to cover the costs. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Protector made a fair offer to settle Mrs Ds claim and I wont be 
asking it to do any more. For clarity, Protector offered to:
reimburse the costs of the R&D survey up to a maximum of £300, and
reimburse the agreed repairs to the bedroom and lounge redecoration, less the policy 
excess.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Debra VaughanOmbudsman