DRN-1734453
The complaint
Mr B has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his employers group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was employed by a particular company, which Ill call C, and was a member of its 
group private medical insurance policy, held with AXA.
On 5 March 2019, Mr B contacted AXA to explain he needed to undergo an operation on his 
hip. AXA provided authorisation for the procedure to be covered under the policy.
On 15 March 2019, Mr B says he spoke again to AXA and it assured him the cover for his 
procedure was in place.
On 12 April 2019, Mr B underwent the procedure.
On 11 May 2019, AXA wrote to Mr B informing him that his claim wouldnt be paid because 
C didnt pay the necessary premiums to renew the policy from 1 March 2019.
Mr B complained to AXA about its decision. He said if he had known the procedure wasnt 
covered, he would not have gone ahead with it.
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It said that C, which was the policyholder, had stopped 
paying premiums and, as explained in the membership handbook which it had previously 
sent to Mr B, his cover ended when Cs group membership ended.
Mr B was unhappy at AXAs response. He referred his complaint to us. He said that AXA 
had been negligent in not informing him in advance that his procedure would no longer be 
covered. He said he was now being pursued by the hospital for its costs of approximately 
£13,000.
Our investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was 
satisfied that on 8 April 2019, AXA had spoken to the group secretary for Cs policy and had 
advised her that Mr Bs operation wouldnt be covered unless C paid its outstanding 
premiums. C didnt pay these premiums and so the policy lapsed. The investigator noted that 
under the terms of the policy it was Cs responsibility to advise its employees of the 
termination of cover. This being the case, she considered it was C, rather than AXA, which 
was at fault in not warning Mr B that his procedure wouldnt be covered.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He disputed AXAs account of its discussions 
with C. He said it wasnt until 7 May 2019 that AXA eventually confirmed to C that the policy 
had lapsed with effect from 1 March 2019 and therefore C couldnt have confirmed the 
termination of his cover before it received this notification.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was a group policy covering three people, one of whom was Mr B and another of 
whom was the named group secretary. The policy was due to renew on 1 March 2019.
The policyholder is C. The agreement between AXA and C is set out in a handbook which 
AXA sent to the group secretary. This states:
8.1 As the purpose of the Agreement is to provide cover for eligible employees and 
family members, the company [C] undertakes:
8.1.1 that it will advise all eligible employees as soon as practicable if for any reason 
this Agreement is terminated or should not be renewed or this Agreement should be 
terminated in accordance with the provisions of Clause 6 so that such eligible 
employees are made aware that all cover has ceased and that benefits will not be 
payable for treatment costs incurred after the termination date for eligible employees 
or family members.
8.2 The company hereby agrees to indemnify AXA PPP healthcare from and against 
any and all costs, losses and expenses incurred by AXA PPP healthcare or any 
member of the AXA PPP group in respect of claims made by eligible employees or 
family members, where such costs, losses and expenses arise as a result of any 
failure by the company to discharge its obligations under this agreement.
AXA also sent Mr B a membership handbook which clearly states:
All cover ends when  the companys group membership ends.
When Mr B contacted AXA on 5 March 2019 to seek authorisation for his procedure, it 
correctly provided this authorisation as C hadnt told it that it didnt intend to renew the policy. 
It has no record of Mr B contacting it again on 15 March 2019 but, if he did so, it again would 
have assured him that the authorisation was in place as it still had no reason to believe C 
was not intending to renew the policy.
On 8 April 2019, there was a telephone conversation between AXA and the group secretary. 
The group secretary said she was being made redundant by C. AXA explained that the 
group policy could continue but someone else would need to be named group secretary and 
premiums would have to be paid to bring the policy up to date. If no premium was received, 
the policy would lapse from the renewal date of 1 March 2019 and Mr Bs procedure would 
not be covered. The group secretary said she would talk matters through with a colleague at 
C and come back to AXA. However, AXA says it never heard from her again and, because 
no premium was received, the policy lapsed as it had advised.
Mr B has disputed this version of events. He says the group secretary doesnt recall being 
told that his operation wouldnt be covered unless the premiums were brought up to date. He 
further says that Cs director says he tried to sort out the problem of the outstanding 
premiums with AXA but that it wouldnt speak to him. 
I consider that the notes on AXAs file of the 8 April 2019 discussion with the group secretary 
are likely to be accurate. Im satisfied that AXA lapsed the policy with effect from 1 March 
2019 because C hadnt paid premiums from that date. If C considers that AXA acted unfairly in lapsing its group policy then it is open for C to make a complaint to AXA. However, Mr B is 
not the policyholder and so he cant make that complaint himself.  
Mr B says that AXA didnt confirm to C until 7 May 2019 that the policy had lapsed. That may 
be the case, but AXA couldnt confirm sooner because it was allowing time for C to pay the 
outstanding premiums and C hadnt confirmed that it didnt intend for the policy to continue.
Mr B is trying to argue that AXA is at fault for leading him to believe that this cover was still in 
place at the time he underwent the procedure. However, I consider the fault is clearly with C 
for failing in its obligations under the policy by not informing Mr B that it was not renewing the 
policy and that his cover therefore would end from 1 March 2019. 
I therefore consider that AXA has acted fairly in this matter by declining Mr Bs claim. If Mr B 
wishes to pursue a complaint, I consider it should more reasonably be directed against C.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman