DRN-3944648
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
handled the collection/inspection of his car at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
Mr L entered into a hire agreement with VWFS for a car. After the car was collected at the 
end of the agreement, Mr L was charged for damage to the car. Mr L feels that correct 
processes werent followed, in particular that he wasnt given a chance to discuss any 
damage at the time, so didnt have the opportunity to see if he wanted to dispute any of it.
Mr L has also complained about the customer service he received from VWFS. In particular, 
hes explained that he didnt receive notification that the £575 damages charge was going to 
be taken from his account.
VWFS said that the charges had been fair, as the damage fell outside the industry guidance 
for wear and tear. But it offered to reduce the charges by 50%, to £287.50, as a gesture of 
goodwill. It later offered to reduce this further, to £130.
Mr L was unhappy with this response, so brought his complaint to our service. To resolve 
matters, hed like VWFS to acknowledge it didnt apply its procedures properly, apologise for 
the customer service he received, and cancel all end of contract charges.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but she didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought the reduction in the bill to £130 was fair. She said 
that the inspection was carried out when the car was collected, so she was satisfied the 
damage existed when the car was handed back. She noted that the inspection report, which 
Mr L had signed, stated customer agreed with reported condition, and that this statement 
appeared above the signature section. Mr L said he was told the car was in good condition, 
with a few minor scratches, and that he could challenge any charges he didnt agree with. 
Taking all of this into account, our investigator was satisfied that the damage had been 
discussed.
Our investigator went on to say that, even if this were not the case, it had no impact on Mr L. 
This was because she was satisfied the damage had been charged for fairly, using the 
applicable BVRLA guidelines. So, even if hed challenged it, hed still ultimately have been 
responsible for the charges.
Our investigator then looked at Mr Ls concerns about payment. Mr L said VWFS had tried to 
take £575 from his account without warning, and that it didnt invoice him within the industry 
standard of four weeks. She was satisfied that the invoice was dated and sent well within 
four weeks of the inspection, as VWFS had provided system notes to show this. Mr L said he 
didnt receive it until much later, and was sceptical about it having been sent on the date it 
was dated. Our investigator was satisfied it had been sent, and didnt think VWFS was 
responsible for any delay in it being received. But in any event, Mr L confirmed hed received 
the inspection report, including the breakdown of charges, prior to the funds being taken. So, 
she was satisfied he knew what the charges were.
Mr L disagreed. In summary, he said:
the BVRLA guidelines say the customer must be shown the damage and agree to the 
charges, but he was never shown the damage. Had there been any discussion of 
specific damage, hed have asked to see it. Instead, he was merely presented with a 
signature box and told it was to confirm the inspection had taken place;
had he been shown the damage, hed have had the opportunity to repair it himself. 
He hadnt carried out any repairs before the inspection, as he thought the car was in 
good condition;
it is clear in his case that there was no diminution in value of the vehicle due to the 
damage, as the car sold for more than VWFS had valued it at;
he didnt receive the invoice before the money was taken from his account. It wasnt 
sent by email, but by post, and he feels it should have been sent by recorded 
delivery. Hes sceptical about when it was actually sent;
the inspection report that he was sent does contain the proposed charges, but as it 
isnt an invoice or request for payment, its unfair to say he should have expected this 
amount to be debited from his account; and
the report doesnt set out how to dispute the proposed charges. So, he was unable to 
dispute the charges either at the time of the inspection, or before the money was 
taken from his account. 
The complaints now been passed to me to look at afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr L, but 
Ill explain why. Id like to assure him that Ive reviewed all of the submissions in full. If I dont 
comment on any particular aspect, that isnt because I havent considered it. Rather, its 
because I have focussed on what I consider goes to the heart of the complaint and a fair 
resolution.
The reasons Im not upholding this complaint are as follows.
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr L did have the opportunity to query the damage 
before he was charged for it. First, he signed the document. Im aware he says he 
wasnt shown what he was signing, but I think it would have been reasonable for him 
to have checked. I think it would be typical for someone to look at a document they 
are putting their signature to. Second, he received the inspection report, which set 
out the charges, before payment was taken. I accept this doesnt explain how to 
challenge the charges, but had Mr L been concerned, I think it would have been 
reasonable for him to have contacted VWFS. 
I cannot explain why Mr L didnt receive the invoice until after the money had been 
debited from his account.  I have seen system notes that show it was sent well 
before, and I have no reason to doubt them. In any event, Mr L was able to contact 
his bank to have the money returned to his account.Mr L has said he could have had any damage repaired himself. However, this would 
have needed to be done before the inspection report was carried out. Further, I can 
see that VWFS is only seeking payment of £130. Given that the damage was 
assessed at significantly more than this, it seems unlikely Mr L would have been able 
to have repairs carried out for less.
Mr L feels that VWFS has sold the car for a higher value than anticipated. I 
appreciate that this may be the case, but market conditions change, including on a 
daily basis. I can see no reason why VWFS should pay Mr L anything for this. Its 
true that damage charges should be fair, but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
VWFS was charging Mr L to make an unfair profit.
In summary, Im satisfied that VWFS has behaved fairly. I can see it has offered to 
significantly reduce Mr Ls bill, to £130. I am not interfering with this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I leave it to Mr L to decide whether to accept Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limiteds offer to reduce the bill to £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman