DRN-4346822
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement offered by Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited for a travel insurance claim. She is also unhappy with the assistance she received 
from the assistance company whilst abroad.
Red Sands are the underwriters of this policy (the insurer). Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the assistance company which acted on Red Sands behalf. Any reference to 
Red Sands therefore includes the actions of the assistance company.
What happened
Mrs M and her late husband Mr M held travel insurance cover with Red Sands. They made a 
claim after Mr M became unwell on a cruise and needed to be admitted to hospital. Mr M 
sadly passed away after returning to the UK.
Red Sands assessed the claim, and concluded that Mr M hadnt disclosed relevant
information about his health (atrial fibrillation, as well as some other conditions) when taking 
out the policy. It said if it had known that information, it would have charged a higher 
premium. It therefore offered to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs M brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Red Sands had failed 
to ask a clear question which would have required Mr M to disclose his atrial fibrillation. Our 
investigator therefore recommended that Red Sands reconsider the claim. She also thought 
Red Sands ought to have provided more assistance and support to Mrs M whilst she was 
abroad, and recommended it pay her £450 compensation for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2023. Heres what I said:
Id firstly like to offer my condolences to Mrs M for the sad loss of her husband. I do
understand that dealing with this matter wont have been easy for her.
Ill consider both aspects of the complaint separately.
Misrepresentation
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with 
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
Red Sands says that Mr M failed to answer the below question correctly:
any prescription medication, or received any medical treatment in the last two years?
Ive listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs M and Red Sands.
In the first call, Mrs M spoke with Red Sands and was asked the above question by the 
adviser. She said her husband took some medication and that she had this in front of her. 
She read out two medications but was not sure what conditions they were treating. The 
adviser then spoke to Mr M and asked him what conditions he had diagnosed. Mr M said it 
was basically for his stomach, and confirmed medication he took for acid reflux. The adviser 
then mentioned the two medications that Mrs M had referred to and asked what these were 
taken for. Mr M thought they were for indigestion. The adviser asked Mr M to contact his GP 
to find out what each prescription was treating before they could continue with the quote.
I think Red Sands acted reasonably here as Mr and Mrs M werent sure of the conditions 
that each medication was treating. A sensible way forward was for Mr M to find out this 
information from his GP.
Mr M then called Red Sands back after speaking with his GP. He spoke with a different 
adviser, and explained hed been asked to get further information from his GP. The adviser 
said I can see we needed to clarify your conditions and what youre taking medication for.
The adviser then noted that Red Sands already had acid reflux recorded for Mr M. He said 
that he took drops for his eyes, and after the adviser asked the condition, he said it was to 
keep the eyes moist. Mr M then said he took Bisoprolol, which the adviser thought was for 
high blood pressure (Mr M confirmed that was correct). The adviser asked him if it was just 
the one medication he took for blood pressure, and Mr M said he had another one, and 
named Rivaroxaban for blood clots. The adviser again asked if it was just one medication for 
high blood pressure, and Mr M said that was two.
The adviser then asked if Mr M had been a smoker or had been advised to take medication 
to lower cholesterol. Mr M confirmed he took medication to lower cholesterol. The adviser 
asked if there was anything else he needed to declare, and Mr M said no.
Red Sands says that Mr M failed to disclose that he had atrial fibrillation, glaucoma and 
eczema, and ought to have done so because he was prescribed medication for those 
conditions.
Mr M was prescribed cream for his eczema, so I agree he ought to have disclosed this. 
Although Mr M did tell Red Sands he was prescribed eye drops, when he was asked which 
condition the drops were treating, he didnt say he had glaucoma. So I also agree with Red 
Sands that Mr M ought to have disclosed this.
The remaining condition is atrial fibrillation. Ive checked Mr Ms medical records and I see 
he was prescribed Rivaroxaban and Bisoprolol for his atrial fibrillation.
Mr M did tell the adviser about these medications. However, he said that Bisoprolol was to 
treat his high blood pressure. Regarding Rivaroxaban, Mr M said this was for blood clots (I 
understand people with atrial fibrillation are more likely to develop blood clots), but when the 
adviser asked further about his blood pressure, he made it seem as though both Bisoprolol 
and Rivaroxaban were to treat high blood pressure. So I can understand why the adviser 
didnt make further enquiries about him needing treatment for blood clots. Mr M didnt say 
that he was actually taking this medication to treat atrial fibrillation.
Ultimately, whilst Mr M did answer the question correctly in respect of the medication he was 
taking, it was clear from both conversations that Red Sands wanted to know the conditions 
that each medication was treating. Mr M unfortunately didnt disclose that he was taking 
medication for atrial fibrillation. And as Ive said, I also find that he should have disclosed 
that he was prescribed cream for eczema, and that his eye drops were for glaucoma.I think its apparent that Mr M wasnt deliberately trying to mislead Red Sands. Nonetheless, 
I find that there was misrepresentation. Red Sands has categorised the misrepresentation as 
careless rather than deliberate, which I think was fair.
Red Sands has provided this Service with evidence that it would have charged a higher 
premium if it had been made aware of Mr Ms above conditions. That means the 
misrepresentation was qualifying, according to CIDRA. Red Sands is therefore entitled to 
settle the claim based on the proportion of premium that Mr and Mrs M paid compared to 
what they should have paid, which it has offered to do.
However, weve received contradictory information concerning the claim percentage that 
Red Sands intends to pay. In Red Sands final response letter to Mrs M, it said the additional 
premium required would have been £173.05 (total premium would have been £494.99) and 
therefore only 65.04% of the premium was paid. That would mean that 65.04% of the claim 
would be payable. But the retrospective screening provided to this Service by Red Sands 
shows that the additional premium required would have been £142.47 (total premium would 
have been £464.41). On this basis, it seems that Mr and Mrs M paid just over 69% of the 
correct premium and therefore a higher percentage of the claim should be paid.
In response to this provisional decision, Red Sands should confirm the percentage of the 
claim it intends to pay, so that I can consider the matter further if necessary.
Assistance provided
Its standard practice for a travel insurer to require and assess certain information before 
agreeing to guarantee any medical expenses or arrange repatriation. Generally, the insurer 
will want to see a medical report from the treating hospital to establish that any treatment is 
medically necessary, and in respect of repatriation, that the patient is fit to fly back to the UK. 
The insurer will also want to see a policyholders GP records to check their medical history in 
order to see if it impacts the claim at all.
After Mrs M returned the consent form for Red Sands to access Mr Ms GP records, it
requested this information from the GP promptly. However, unfortunately it didnt receive the 
medical records for eight days. I can see that Red Sands chased this with the GP on several 
occasions in that timeframe, which is what Id expect. The GP refused to provide the records 
until the invoice had been paid, but it did not provide Red Sands with an invoice to pay. I 
therefore dont hold Red Sands responsible for the delay in the GP surgery providing the 
information.
In cases such as this, where it takes a long time to obtain a policyholders medical records, 
an insurer can offer to cover medical expenses and arrange repatriation back to the UK on a 
disclaimer basis. This would have been subject to Mrs Ms written guarantee to pay Red 
Sands back for any part of the claim that fell outside the scope of cover. Ive thought about 
whether Red Sands ought to have done this here.
I see that Red Sands had problems communicating with the hospital. Despite contacting the 
hospital multiple times, it only received an initial medical report after the British Embassy 
became involved. This said that Mr M would remain in hospital for ten days, and so Red 
Sands expected Mr M to remain in hospital until around 5 November. It says it expected to 
have finalised a decision about cover by that point, and so didnt expect to need to make a 
decision on repatriation before 5 November.
Red Sands was then made aware on 28 October that Mr M had been confirmed as fit to fly 
(so long as he was intubated in an air ambulance). However, Red Sands says that it had not 
received updated medical information to support that an air ambulance was medically appropriate, and it would not arrange any repatriation that had not been signed off by its 
medical team.
It seems to me that Red Sands could have offered to arrange the repatriation here on a 
disclaimer basis. Though I understand Mr Ms family had already begun arranging this 
themselves. So repatriation arranged by Red Sands may not have happened any sooner. 
I see that after Mr Ms family arranged the air ambulance, they wanted Red Sands to
arrange a road ambulance in the UK. Red Sands did contact its ambulance provider for 
Mr Ms family in order to try and arrange this, and did then attempt to liaise between that 
company and the air ambulance provider. I think that was reasonable.
Mrs M has expressed concerns about the hospital, but as our investigator has explained, we 
cant hold Red Sands responsible for the standard of care Mr M received from the hospital or 
staff there. I understand Mrs M also holds Red Sands responsible for the choice of clinic 
where Mr M was initially taken before being transferred elsewhere, but Red Sands did not 
decide where to send Mr M (that decision may have been taken by the cruise company).
Mrs M has also said how unhappy she was with the lack of communication from Red Sands. 
I note that Red Sands often couldnt always get through to Mrs M or her family members on 
the phone, so it couldnt keep them updated on the attempts that were being made to try and 
progress the claim. I recognise that Red Sands asked Mrs M for alternative means of 
contact, but this couldnt be provided. I see Red Sands tried to reach Mrs M through the 
hospital, and a staff member of Red Sands contacted Mrs M through a messaging 
application on their own phone at one point. So I appreciate that Red Sands did make some 
other attempts to contact Mrs M.
Having said that, Red Sands were made aware at the outset that Mrs M couldnt always 
make or receive calls on her mobile, but she was contactable by email. Initially, Red Sands 
did contact Mrs M in this way, but then it seems to have reverted to mainly attempting to call 
her and leaving her voicemails. Whilst it would have been preferable for Red Sands to have 
spoken to Mrs M, it seems to me that on the occasions when it couldnt reach her, it ought to 
have still emailed her with whatever update it wanted to provide as its not clear if she was 
able to access her voicemails. Ive noted Red Sands point about its staff members needing 
to take other calls, but I remain of the view that more attempts should have been made to 
keep Mrs M updated by email. I therefore intend to require Red Sands to pay Mrs M £200
compensation to recognise the frustration she was caused by not being kept updated.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make. 
Red Sands responded to confirm that payment of the claim would be settled at 69.33% on a 
proportionate basis.
Mrs Ms representative responded (together with a supporting letter from Mr Ms GP), and 
made the following main points:
They think Mrs M should receive 100% of the claim amount, due to the absence of 
any evidence suggesting deliberate or misleading representations on Mr Ms part.
They think Red Sands ought to have assessed and checked the accuracy of the 
information provided during the application process. 
They say that given Mr Ms condition, waiting for a GP report could be life 
threatening. And that repatriation was essential for Mr M to receive the best possible 
care. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands has confirmed that the proportionate settlement will be based on the higher 
amount of 69.33%. This is in line with the underwriting evidence Red Sands has provided to 
this Service, so I dont need to consider this further. 
Mrs Ms representative thinks the full claim should be paid, due to the absence of any 
evidence suggesting that Mr M made deliberate or misleading representations. To be clear, I 
havent found that Mr M deliberately tried to mislead Red Sands. However, I do think he 
failed to take reasonable care when giving Red Sands information about his conditions, and 
that this misrepresentation was careless. The information provided by Mr Ms GP about his 
conditions doesnt change my view on this. Under CIDRA, an insurers remedy is based on 
what it would have done if there hadnt been misrepresentation.
It might be helpful if I explain that I wouldnt expect an insurer to check information it has 
been given during the application process. An insurer is entitled to rely on the information it 
has been given by an applicant.
Red Sands has shown that if it had known about Mr Ms conditions, it would have charged a 
higher premium. Therefore, Red Sands can reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on 
a claim. Red Sands had already offered to settle the claim proportionately before Mrs M 
brought her complaint to this Service, and Im satisfied that was reasonable. It has now 
clarified the payment of the claim would be settled at 69.33% on a proportionate basis.
Mrs Ms representative says given Mr Ms condition, waiting for a GP report could be life-
threatening (as confirmed by Mr Ms GP). If it were the case that medical treatment was 
denied by the hospital until Red Sands had confirmed cover, then I would agree with this. 
But Mr M did receive treatment abroad and so the delay in obtaining the GP report didnt 
impact this. 
I do understand that the family wanted to repatriate Mr M so that he could receive treatment 
in the UK, and Ive addressed this in my provisional decision. I said that Red Sands could 
have offered to repatriate Mr M on 28 October on a disclaimer basis, but Mr Ms family had 
already started this process, so I cant say that repatriation arranged by Red Sands would 
have happened any sooner.    
Whilst I recognise that my decision will disappoint Mrs M, I remain satisfied that Red Sands 
offer to pay a proportionate settlement for the claim was appropriate here. I also remain of 
the view that Red Sands should pay Mrs M £200 compensation for failing to keep her 
updated whilst abroad, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs M £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman