DRN-3991716
The complaint
Mr S complains that Western Union International Bank GmbH (Western Union) gave him 
incorrect information which meant his money transfer failed, causing him loss.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr S set up an international money transfer through Western Union. The 
amount he wanted to send was over £40,000. This money was held in an account which Mr 
S has with another bank. Mr S says that his bank has a daily withdrawal limit of £20,000. So, 
in order to put Western Union in funds for the full amount of the money transfer, he needed 
to move the money across from his bank account as three separate transactions.
Mr S says that Western Union asked him for a document called SF. He didnt know what 
this was, so he called Western Union. It confirmed this was a source of funds document. 
While he was on the phone, Mr S asked about sending the amount in multiple transactions. 
He says that Western Unions representative confirmed this was fine, as long as it received 
the total amount by the deadline.
Mr S transferred the money to Western Union as three transactions over three consecutive 
days. But Western Union didnt recognise that the transactions were related. So it thought 
the transfer was underfunded and cancelled it.
When Mr S called Western Union, it advised him to reprocess the transaction and pay the 
full transfer amount as one transaction this time. But Mr S didnt want to do that as the 
exchange rate had changed and he said he would lose money.
Mr S says that the intended transfer was the remaining payment on a deal for which hed 
already paid a deposit of £5,000. He says that, because the transfer was cancelled, the 
balance payment didnt reach the recipient on time. He says he lost the deposit as a result. 
In addition, he says he lost approximately £2,500 due to a change in the exchange rate. 
Mr S complained to Western Union. He said hed paid the transfer funds as multiple 
transactions on the basis of incorrect advice from Western Union and was out of pocket as a 
result. He said that Western Union should compensate him for his losses.
Western Union acknowledged that Mr S experienced poor customer service. It said that 
some of its representatives provided inaccurate information, leading to miscommunication. It 
apologised and gave him a promotion code for a 50% fee discount on his next transaction.
But Mr S wasnt happy with Western Unions response and brought the complaint to this 
service. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, but Mr S didnt accept that outcome 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Western Unions money transfer service say that customers 
must settle the full amount of the transfer plus Western Unions fees before the transfer is 
executed. So, the transfer cant take place until all the funds have been sent to Western 
Union. I havent seen anything in the terms and conditions which says that the funds can be 
paid to Western Union in multiple transactions over more than one day.
But Mr S says he was told on the phone that this would be fine. Ive listened to the recording 
of this call (provided by Mr S) and seen the matching transcript (provided by Western Union). 
I dont think Western Union is responsible for the losses Mr S suffered. Ill explain why.
I think the conversation between Mr S and Western Unions representative was fairly 
confused and at times they were speaking at cross purposes. For example, the 
representative initially thought that Mr S was enquiring about Western Unions daily money 
transfer limit.
No specific details were discussed. Mr S didnt want to give his name. And he didnt give 
specific details of the transfer he wanted to make, such as the exact amount or the date it 
had to be completed by. No deadlines were mentioned.
Part of the call was about the source of funds request. But, in relation to the multiple 
transactions, I dont think it was clear that Mr S wanted to know if he could send the money 
to Western Union as multiple transactions. He said for transfers over, lets say for 
example 40K, if my bank doesnt allow the entire amount to be sent in one transaction, is 
there a way I can transfer the amount in multiple transactions?. 
Later in the call, he said My question was, basically, if my bank doesnt allow me to send 
you know there is a limit per day, right? I think its 20K per day, so can I send the amount in 
two different transactions, and thenwhat do I do? The agent responded So, you will 
divide it by twenty twenty, so yes you can make two transactions online.
I think what Mr S said could have been interpreted as though the bank receiving the transfer 
could only receive £20,000 per day and Mr S was asking whether he could make multiple 
transfers from Western Union to the recipient bank to send £40,000 in total. I think it would 
have been reasonable for Western Unions representative to interpret the question this way, 
particularly given the lack of background information provided.
So I dont think Western Union told Mr S that he could settle the transfer through multiple 
payments from his bank account. Therefore, I dont think its responsible for any losses 
arising from the failed transfer. But, even if Western Unions representative understood Mr S 
to be asking whether he could make multiple payments to Western Union (as opposed to 
multiple transfers from Western Union), I still dont think Western Union is responsible for Mr 
Ss losses.
Thats because Mr S didnt tell Western Union the details of the transfer or the deadline for 
payment. So I dont think it could reasonably have known what the consequences would be 
if the transfer failed. As to the deal which Mr S was hoping to complete, I havent seen any 
details of this. So, I cant safely conclude that it fell through as a result of the transfer failing 
on that day. But, even if it did, I dont think that was Western Unions fault, as Ive explained.
I also understand from comments Mr S made on the call that hed had problems with a 
transfer before. After Western Unions representative told him he could make two 
transactions online, he asked whether that would go through and whether there would be 
any problem. He said last time he sent something through, the transaction didnt happen and ended up being delayed. I havent seen any more information about this. But if Mr S had 
experienced problems before, I think it would have been reasonable for him to be more 
specific with his query this time and allow more time for the transfer to complete before the 
deal deadline. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Western Union acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here. So Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman