DRN-2222002
The complaint
Mr M complains Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as VitalityLife (Vitality) has 
unfairly changed the terms of his whole of life policy. 
What happened
After receiving advice from a financial adviser, Mr M bought life cover from Vitality in 2014. 
The cover was set up as a whole of life plan that would pay £206,461 if he passed away or 
was diagnosed with a terminal illness. After Mr M took out the policy, Vitality sent him a 
welcome pack which included a copy of the Plan Schedule. The Premium Notes section of 
that plan schedule said The total premium payable over the term of your policy is 
£30,000.00.
In December 2018 Vitality wrote to Mr M saying the Premium Notes section hed been 
given in 2014 was missing a sentence. Its letter said In your plan schedule we told you a 
total premium payable. However, as your cover is whole of life, the total premium amount is 
only for the first 10 years of your plan and therefore the below sentence in bold should have 
been included under the heading 'Premium Notes'. "For whole of life benefits the total 
premium includes the premiums payable for the first 10 years of the policy only. The 
total premium amount shown is simply the sum of the premiums for the first 10 years of your 
plan, after which your premium will continue as normal. This means that you will be paying 
your premiums until you claim on the plan.
Mr M complained to Vitality, as he thought it was changing the terms of his policy and should 
honour the original wording. In its final response of March 2019, Vitality said it had made an 
error when setting up its policy templates at the time Mr M took out this policy. It apologised 
and said it had wanted to make sure Mr M had the correct policy information going forward. 
It ended by saying it upheld his complaint and hoped it had reassured Mr M about his cover.
There was further communication between Mr M and Vitality over the following months, in 
which Mr M highlighted it had upheld his complaint, asked it to confirm the total premium 
payable over the life of the policy was £30,000 and that the cover stood at £206,461, and 
asked Vitality whether it would refund the premiums hed paid if he cancelled his policy. 
Vitality issued a second final response letter to Mr M saying a system error led to a sentence 
being missed out of his plan schedule, but highlighted that the Plan Summary hed been 
given at the start of his policy said You will pay premiums on a regular basis throughout the 
whole term of your plan. So when you decide on your term, you should think about whether 
you will be able to pay your premiums for that whole time. 
And ultimately, Vitality said it had originally upheld his complaint because it had incorrectly 
missed out a sentence. For that error in wording, it offered Mr M compensation to the value 
of £250 (either in the form of waiving one months premium, or in £250 of vouchers for its 
partners), which Mr M declined. But Vitality said it wouldnt refund the premiums Mr M had 
paid, because it had provided him with cover.  
Unhappy with this, Mr M contacted our service. He said Vitality was changing the terms of 
his policy and he wanted it to put things right by honouring the original wording. 
After looking into things, our investigator said Vitality accepted it had given Mr M incorrect 
wording when he took the policy out. But he thought Mr M would still have bought the policy 
had Vitality given him the correct wording, and so wouldnt ask Vitality to cap Mr Ms 
premiums. Our investigator also thought Vitalitys first final response letter to Mr M made 
clear it was upholding his complaint because it had given him incorrect wording and didnt 
say it would honour that incorrect wording.
Both Mr M and Vitality accepted what our investigator said. And at Mr Ms request, we asked 
Vitality to send him a correctly worded set of policy documents. But after four weeks, Mr M 
hadnt yet received them so he asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
Therefore, his complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. But before I explain my reasons, Id like to be clear that 
in this decision I can only look at the actions of Vitality. So I wont be considering the 
actions of Mr Ms financial adviser at the time of the sale. 
I can understand why Mr M believes Vitality is trying to change the terms of his policy. 
Looking at the documents Mr M was provided with at the time he took out the policy, I can 
see that the sentence in question is missing from the Premium Notes section of the plan 
schedule Vitality gave to Mr M at the start of the policy.
But its not the case that all of the policy documents given to Mr M at that time were 
incorrectly worded or suggest he will only pay a maximum of £30,000 in premiums. The 
Plan Summary says You will pay premiums on a regular basis throughout the whole term 
of your plan. So when you decide on your term, you should think about whether you will be 
able to pay your premiums for that whole time. 
So to uphold Mr Ms complaint that Vitality is now unfairly changing his policy terms, I would 
need to be satisfied that Mr M wouldnt have taken out this policy but for the incorrectly 
missing sentence. But Im not satisfied thats the case. I dont think Mr M would have been 
able to get £206,461 of cover for a maximum of £30,000 of premiums elsewhere. Instead, 
I think its likely Mr M would still have taken this policy even if Vitality had given him the 
correct wording to start with, given his age at the time of the sale, and the level of cover it 
offered in return for the monthly premiums. So I think its fair for Vitality to apply the correct 
wording to Mr Ms policy, though I realise Mr M feels very strongly about this.
I also think it was fair for Vitality to say that if Mr M cancelled the policy, it wouldnt refund 
the premiums hes paid so far. Thats because Mr M has had the benefit of the cover 
provided by the policy during that time, and Vitality has said it would have paid an eligible 
claim if one had been made.
However, its not in dispute that Vitality made an error by incorrectly wording the Premium 
Notes section of the plan schedule it gave Mr M in 2014. I think this error caused Mr M 
some distress, because finding out about this in December 2018 raised his hopes that his 
policy premiums would be limited to £30,000. And he was then very disappointed to receive 
Vitalitys final response letter of March 2019  I think that letter made clear Vitality was 
upholding Mr Ms complaint because it had made an error by giving him incorrect wording at the start of his policy, and that he would need to pay his premiums until the end of the 
policy. 
However, Im satisfied Mr Ms hopes were raised over a relatively short period of time. So in 
the circumstances, I think the compensation Vitality has already offered Mr M, amounting to 
£250, is fair and reasonable compensation for his loss of expectation. So Vitality should 
waive one months premium for Mr M.
Im also satisfied that its fair to expect Vitality to send Mr M a correctly worded set of policy 
documents, as he has requested. Therefore Vitality should do this too.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. But Vitality Corporate Services 
Limited trading as VitalityLife should waive one months premium for Mr M (equating to 
£250) as it has already offered to do, and it should also send Mr M a set of correctly worded 
policy documents. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman