DRN-2795027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid everything they claimed 
for under their travel insurance policy
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an annual multi-trip comprehensive travel insurance policy which was 
underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy covered them from 7 December 2019 until 
6 December 2020. They also paid for an Optional Travel Disruption Extension.
Mr and Mrs W bought a package holiday through a travel agent on 6 December 2019. This 
included an outbound flight to Hong Kong, a return flight from mainland China, a cruise, as 
well as accommodation and transfers. The trip was due to start on 29 January 2020.
On 28 January 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to mainland China, not including Hong Kong. Following this, the cruise 
company said the disembarkation from the cruise would now take place in Japan instead of 
mainland China. So, the cruise company said travellers should rebook their return flight.
Following this, Mr and Mrs Ws travel agent changed the holiday details. This now included a 
new return flight from Japan at an additional cost of £1,200 and accommodation costs of 
£700 after a discount.
Mr and Mrs W started their trip and went on the cruise. But on 6 February 2020 the cruise 
ship was refused entry in Japan under the domestic legislation applicable at the time. The 
cruise ship eventually disembarked in Cambodia, and the cruise company paid for Mr and 
Mrs Ws new return flight from Cambodia. But Mr and Mrs W had to travel in economy class 
rather than premium economy which meant that they also had to pay for excess luggage as 
the allowance was lower than their original ticket allowed.
Mr and Mrs Ws travel agent refunded the full cost of the cruise as this had been issued by 
the cruise company. It also said it would look to refund some of the original return flight from 
mainland China, but this was likely to only be the refundable taxes. But it said Mr and Mrs W 
should claim for the Japan flight from their insurer.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Great Lakes for the unused return flight from Japan, the 
unused accommodation costs in Japan, as well as the additional costs for the excess 
luggage (if the cruise company refused to pay for this).
Great Lakes said the circumstances of this complaint werent covered under the policy. It 
said this was because Mr and Mrs W wouldve always needed to pay for a return flight, and 
the cruise company arranged an alternative return flight from Cambodia. It also said that the 
cruise company changing the port of disembarkation (which led to Mr and Mrs W having to 
arrange a different return flight) meant that this wasnt something that was covered under the 
policy.
That said, Great Lakes did pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim for the unused accommodation costs 
as well as hotel service charges after deducting the excess. But Mr and Mrs W didnt think 
this was enough, as they say their claim should be covered under the Travel Disruption 
Extension they bought.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the cost of the return flight from 
mainland China was covered under the policy. This was because the reason Mr and Mrs W 
werent able to use the flight was due to a last-minute itinerary change. And he didnt think 
Great Lakes needed to pay the Japan flight either, as Mr and Mrs W wouldve always 
needed pay for a return flight  and the cruise company paid for the replacement return flight 
from Cambodia. But our investigator said that if Mr and Mrs W could show the price 
difference between the Japan and Cambodia flights, Great Lakes should pay for this.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators findings. They maintain that the Japan 
flight should be covered under the add-on policy they bought. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Firstly, the purpose of insurance is to indemnify the policyholder  so, they shouldnt be put 
into a better position. What this means is that in the circumstances of this complaint, Mr and 
Mrs W always needed to pay for a return flight. The original return flight was from mainland 
China, so as a starting point, I dont think this is something the insurer should pay for. 
Rather, if there was an insured event, it should pay for any additional costs Mr and Mrs W 
incurred.
Section 14 of the policy  Optional Travel Disruption Extension  provided cover for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs if Mr and Mrs W werent able to 
travel, or the trip was cut short before completion as a result of the following:
the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling 
issuing a directive: 
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or 
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you were 
travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, renewed or extended 
this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is later), or in the  case of cutting short your 
trip after you had left your home country to commence the trip.
The reason Mr and Mrs W had to buy the new return flight from Japan was due to a change 
in the FCO advice  this meant that the cruise ship couldnt disembark in its original 
destination. And the reason the cruise ship eventually had to disembark in Cambodia instead 
was because the Japanese government refused the cruise ship entry under the domestic 
legislation applicable at the time.
I think these circumstances mean that there was an insured event under the Travel 
Disruption Extension section of the policy. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think I 
can fairly ask Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Ill explain why.Mr and Mrs Ws policy  like most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market  only 
provides cover for irrecoverable costs. This is because insurance is designed to indemnify 
the policyholder only if they are unable to reclaim their losses from any other source. The 
reasonable attempts which Id expect a policyholder to make to recover their losses from 
other (and from which other) sources depends on the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W booked flights, accommodation, transfers and a cruise through a travel agent. 
I can see from the booking confirmation that these were made with the travel agent, and not 
with each individual party directly for the different elements of the booking. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs Ws booking with the travel agent constituted a 
package holiday under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 
2018 (PTR). This means Mr and Mrs Ws travel agent has obligations to provide them with a 
refund in certain circumstances.
Ultimately, the liability for the performance of the travel services is on the organiser  here 
its Mr and Mrs Ws travel agent. So, before I could reasonably ask Great Lakes to accept 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim under their travel insurance policy, I think they need to pursue the 
matter further with their travel agent first.
I note that the specific travel agent who sold the package is now in administration, but the 
booking confirmation shows that it was acting as an agent of another company. That 
company is still in business and I think this is who Mr and Mrs W should get in touch with in 
the first instance about their losses. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account that the Competition and Markets 
Authority wrote an open letter to the travel industry reminding them of their obligations under 
the PTR. Based on the evidence in this case, I think the travel agent needs to explain why it 
has not refunded Mr and Mrs W for their additional flight costs because of the change in 
itinerary. I dont think its for Mr and Mrs W to approach the airline directly  they had a 
contract with their travel agent which is covered by the relevant legislation Ive referred to 
above. Taking all of this into account I think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to 
contact the company to ask for a refund. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Ws travel agent, which is in administration, was covered by 
an industry scheme which offers protection when a travel agent goes out of business. I dont 
know whether Mr and Mrs W will be able to claim their losses via the scheme but it may offer 
a further option for them to recover the losses the agent was responsible for.
If Mr and Mrs W are unsuccessful in recovering their outstanding losses from the company 
the travel agent was acting for and can provide evidence that theyve made reasonable 
attempts to do so, its open to them to get back in touch with Great Lakes so it can consider 
whether their losses are irrecoverable at that point. As Ive outlined above, Im satisfied 
there is an insured event based on the evidence Ive seen. But if Mr and Mrs W are then 
unhappy with any decision by Great Lakes about the matter, they may wish to consider 
bringing a new complaint to our service.
That means I dont intend to recommend that Great Lakes needs to do anything further at 
this point.
Great Lakes didnt have any further comments following my provisional decision. Mr and 
Mrs W first responded to say that they were in the process of trying to contact the company 
their travel agent was acting for, as per my provisional decision. They also forwarded an 
earlier email from their travel agent which led Mr and Mrs W to believe that it was for the 
insurer to cover the cost of the Japan flight.Mr and Mrs W have also since let us know they havent been able to get hold of the 
company the travel agent was acting for despite trying. They also sent a response from the 
cruise company outlining the cost of the return flight from Cambodia. Mr and Mrs W asked 
me to consider adding the difference in cost of this flight and the original return flight in their 
claim, reflecting the difference in standard between those flights.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has 
now passed, Ill issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I had already seen the email Mr and Mrs W forwarded when I reached my provisional 
decision. In this email their travel agent said, amongst other things, that the cost of the 
Japan flight should form part of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance claim. But the travel agent didnt, 
for example, set out why it didnt consider it had an obligation to refund under the PTR or 
explain in detail why it considered a refund wasnt due. Ultimately, the travel provider was 
unable to fulfil its obligations under the PTR to Mr and Mrs W and, at the moment, it hasnt 
offered a satisfactory explanation as to why that is the case. This is why I thought Mr and 
Mrs W should approach the company the travel agent was acting for about a refund.
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs W are unsuccessful in 
recovering their outstanding losses from the company the travel agent was acting for and 
can provide evidence that theyve made reasonable attempts to do so, its open to them to 
get back in touch with Great Lakes so it can consider whether their losses are irrecoverable 
at that point.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs W have said about the difference in standard between 
the flight theyd originally booked, and the flight the cruise company booked and they 
returned with. But this isnt something thats covered under the terms of this policy, or other 
travel insurance policies in general, in similar circumstances.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. This means that I think the circumstances 
here meant that there was an insured event under the Travel Disruption Extension section of 
the policy. But I dont think I can fairly ask Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim at this 
point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman