DRN-3538737
The complaint
Mr K complains about a decision by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), 
trading as very, to recharge him for a fridge freezer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out in 
significant detail in the investigators views, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill 
focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Ive read about the delivery issues Mr K experienced. I dont think he wanted both fridges, 
but hes explained it was necessary to place orders for them both to obtain the discount and 
to allow him to decide which colour fridge to retain.
Under section 75 Shop Direct are only responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. Here I think the issue is whether there has been a breach of contract and 
that would be the case if Shop Direct were charging Mr K for an item he didnt have.
So, if Mr K hadnt ordered the black fridge freezer or there was evidence it had been 
returned then Id say there had been a breach of contract.
Ive listened to the calls Mr K had with Shop Direct. Its clear Mr K expected delivery of two 
fridge freezers; one on or around 4 September 2021 and the other (the black one) on 15 
September 2021 but that, unfortunately, an error was made, and both were delivered at the 
same time. Shop Direct offered to take the black fridge back and redeliver it on 15 
September but Mr K said he was happy to keep it. 
So, I think at that point, despite the delivery issues, Shop Direct had delivered the fridge that 
had been ordered by Mr K and hed accepted it. Shop Direct werent in breach of their 
contract with him.
On 10 September 2021 Mr K accepted Shop Directs offer to collect the fridge. They 
explained that they would get the courier to contact Mr K and arrange a collection date and 
would credit Mr Ks account.
The courier have provided evidence that shows they sent texts and emails to Mr K on 11, 12 
and 13 September 2021 with links to book a collection and that they emailed on 28 
September 2021 to explain collection would be completed the next day. So, Im satisfied 
Shop Direct made sufficient efforts to try to collect the goods.
I understand that Mr K has explained he told them the fridge had clearly been collected by 
then. We cant be sure where the fridge is now but its clear the courier didnt collect it and 
Shop Direct dont have the goods.
In those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Shop Direct to recharge Mr Ks 
account as they hadnt received the black fridge back from Mr K and as hed accepted it I 
think its fair to suggest the onus was on him to ensure it was returned.
I dont therefore think Shop Direct have been unreasonable and Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman