DRN-1948045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt return their title deeds when
they paid off their mortgage.
What happened
Following the completion of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, Barclays sent them a package with
the title deeds of the property. But, while this included the original deeds for previous 
owners, it didnt have the deeds signed by Mr and Mrs B and their solicitors.
In response to Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about this, Barclays said it would look again, but all
deeds were electronic now anyway. And that sometimes solicitors didnt send the original
deeds to Barclays, so it suggested they contact their solicitors too.
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors said theyd given Barclays everything, which is shown from a letter
included in the package, titled schedule of title deeds and documents. The document
confirmed it was submitted by the solicitors and lists three documents: miscellaneous 
searches and papers, charge certificate, copy title information document. Theres a space for 
someone to sign the document to say they received the title deeds and documents.
In response to the complaint about the situation, Barclays said it searched again, but it had
already sent everything it could find. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy that Barclays 
misplaced their deeds. Theyre concerned that if it fell into the wrong hands, this could be 
used fraudulently to sell their home.
On 28 May 2020, I sent a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt persuaded that 
Barclays had done anything wrong. In summary, given that this was a registered 
conveyance, I didnt think there wouldve been physical title deeds like any previous owners 
held. And given that the document from the time referred to a copy title information 
document, I wasnt persuaded that any deeds personal to Mr and Mrs B were sent to 
Barclays.
Barclays didnt have anything further to add. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with my findings. In 
summary: 
They explained they signed the deeds of the property when they bought the house, 
and the solicitor sent them to Barclays. Thats proven by the solicitors cover letter  
while it refers to a copy, their solicitor has stated that wouldve been the original 
signed deeds. 
They said that Barclays asked them where to send the deeds  at no point did it say 
it didnt have them. 
As Barclays hasnt said it destroyed them, it must still have them  or worse, the 
deeds have been lost and fallen into unscrupulous hands. 
The complaint has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Bs response. But it seems these are points theyve 
raised throughout the course of their complaint, and which I thought about and answered in 
my provisional decision. To add one further point of explanation, Ive considered their 
solicitors comments that the reference to a copy title information document wouldve been 
the original title deeds. But theyve not provided an explanation for why theyd refer to an 
original document as a copy  and without that, I dont think its a logical conclusion to reach.
So, Mr and Mrs Bs response hasnt changed my mind about this complaint. For 
completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again below.  
Title deeds usually refer to the documents that prove ownership of a property. Before 
a property was registered with the Land Registry, this wouldve been physical documents 
that passed from person to person. But when its registered (as Mr and Mrs Bs property 
is), information about who owns the property is held on the land and property register  
and thats the definitive proof of ownership. If someone needed a physical document to 
show whats on the register and prove their ownership (for example, in a court case), they 
can apply to get an official copy. You can also get regular copies online for a small fee.
So, for registered properties, someones title deeds doesnt usually mean a 
physical document with their name(s) on it, signed by the relevant parties  as Ive said, 
thats now held electronically by the Land Registry. Instead, people tend to mean the old 
physical documents that show the historical ownership of the property (amongst some other 
details). From what Mr and Mrs B have said, they already have these.
Ive explained this, as it strikes me that Mr and Mrs B might be looking for something that, 
by virtue of their property being registered, doesnt exist - or at least, it doesnt in the 
form theyre expecting to see. 
In saying this, Ive considered their solicitors cover letter, that appears to be from when 
the mortgage was taken out. This refers to their title number (showing the property 
was registered). It also describes a copy title information document, which in the 
circumstances most likely refers to a copy of the register. I note it also mentions a charge 
certificate. This is something the Land Registry used to give for lenders to show it held a 
mortgage over the property. They no longer do this, and when they stopped, all the existing 
certificates lost any legal status. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Bs point that Barclays asked where to return the deeds. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that included a physical document, 
signed by Mr and Mrs B, that resembles the previous owners deeds. 
This isnt to say Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have signed documents when they bought 
their home  so I dont doubt their recollection of signing something with their solicitors. 
Indeed, to get the title updated with the Land Registry, they may have signed a transfer 
deed (which nowadays is effectively a form prescribed by the Land Registry). But thats just 
part of registering your title  its not your title deeds. Moreover, theres nothing to suggest 
this wouldve been sent to Barclays.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B are worried about documents falling into the wrong hands. Im 
not persuaded Barclays has lost anything here. But, either way, given that any historical 
paper deeds cant now be used to prove ownership, I dont think that presents a risk. It 
follows that, with everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything wrong 
here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman