DRN-3192075
The complaint
Mr B complains that Woodgrange Associates (IFA) Ltd trading as Advies Wealth 
(Woodgrange) has failed to provide him with the confirmation of its advice regarding the 
transfer of pension benefits required under section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015.
What happened
Mr B holds defined pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 2020 
Mr B engaged Woodgrange to provide him with advice about the transfer of those pension 
benefits to a personal pension scheme. Woodgrange issued a suitability report by email, 
together with supporting documents, to Mr B on 27 September 2020. Its advice was that 
Mr B should transfer his pension benefits from the OPS to a new personal pension.
Almost a month later Mr B got back in touch with Woodgrange to discuss the 
recommendation it had made. Woodgrange suggested holding a telephone call at a time to 
suit Mr B. But it seems that he failed to reply to that invitation. His guaranteed transfer value 
expired shortly afterwards in November 2020. The fee that Mr B had agreed to pay for the 
advice was due when his pension savings were transferred. So, since Mr B appeared to 
Woodgrange to have decided not to proceed, no advice fee was paid.
In March 2021 Mr B got back in touch with Woodgrange. He asked if it would provide him 
with the declaration that advice had been received that was required under section 48 of the 
Pension Schemes Act 2015. The requirement to provide that declaration is contained in 
section 19.1.10G of the regulators COBS handbook. Woodgrange declined Mr Bs request. 
It noted that he intended to self-invest his pension savings following the transfer, in a 
different pension plan to that it had recommended. And it said that it would need to 
understand whether there had been any changes to Mr Bs circumstances, or the transfer 
value, before it could reconfirm its advice. It noted that Mr B would need to pay its fee for 
that advice.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the time 
that had passed between the initial analysis performed, and the advice that was then given, 
by Woodgrange, meant that it would be inappropriate for it to now issue the confirmation of 
advice required by the OPS trustees. And he thought that the change in investment 
approach being proposed by Mr B might mean that he was no longer in an informed position 
regarding the transfer. So he didnt think Woodgrange had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Woodgrange. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
This complaint isnt about the suitability of the advice that Woodgrange provided to Mr B. So 
in my decision I am not going to be considering whether it was reasonable for Woodgrange 
to recommend that Mr B transfer his pension benefits from the OPS to a personal pension. 
But we have been provided with copies of all the information that Woodgrange sent to Mr B 
in September 2020, and in particular the suitability report it compiled.
In broad terms, the analysis that Woodgrange provided to Mr B compared the benefits he 
would be giving up in the OPS to those he could receive from a personal pension 
arrangement based on the guaranteed cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that he had 
been offered by the OPS. Woodgranges conclusion, based on the specific circumstances of 
Mr B including his health and lifestyle situation, was that Mr B should transfer the pension 
benefits. 
But that advice would have a natural lifespan  the CETV was only guaranteed until 13 
November 2020. After that date Mr B would need to request a new CETV from the OPS 
administrators and it is unlikely that its value would be the same as the one hed previously 
received. Whilst that difference might not have been material to Woodgranges 
recommendation, it would have been important for it to be considered had Mr B accepted the 
advice to transfer after the expiry of the original CETV.
The suitability report that Woodgrange provided to Mr B also set out the basis on which he 
would pay for the advice he received. It said that Mr B had agreed to pay 2% of his 
transferred funds (approximately £10,000) for the analysis of your scheme, the preparation 
of your scheme reports and facilitating the transfer from your ceding scheme to your 
receiving scheme. But since that fee was to be collected once the transfer had been 
completed, no fee was paid to Woodgrange for its advice when Mr B failed to proceed with 
its recommendation.
In June 2020 the FCA issued guidance to firms about the charges that were levied for 
providing advice on pension transfers such as these. As a result of the rule changes that 
followed, from 1 October 2020, firms were required to ensure that the charges they levied 
were not affected by either the recommendation that was given, or by the clients decision 
whether or not to proceed with a transfer. So should Mr B require new advice, that would 
now be chargeable regardless of any recommendation made, or his decision on whether to 
proceed.
Mr B has relied on section 19.1.10 of the FCAs Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
That section of COBS says;
(1) Where a firm has advised a retail client in relation to a pension transfer or pension 
conversion and the firm is asked to confirm this for the purposes of section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015, then the firm should provide such confirmation as soon 
as reasonably practicable.
(2) The firm should provide the confirmation regardless of whether it advised the client to 
proceed with a pension transfer or pension conversion or not.
Mr B says that he has now decided to proceed with the transfer, albeit using a different 
investment approach. And that means that Woodgrange should issue the section 48 
confirmation to the OPS trustees. But I dont agree  I think that approach would be 
problematic for a number of reasons.
The transfer that Mr B is now proposing is not the transfer on which he received advice from 
Woodgrange. The CETV has expired and will most likely be different from that Woodgrange 
used in its analysis. And the investment approach post transfer differs markedly. Mr B is 
proposing to manage those investments himself, whereas Woodgranges advice assumed 
he would have professional support. And the ultimate investment approach to those pension 
savings, as well as the pension provider, appears to have been changed. I think those 
changes, and the significant period of time since Woodgrange undertook its analysis, mean 
it would be inappropriate for it to now provide Mr B with the documentation that he requires.
And there is of course the very obvious question around the fee that would have been 
payable to Woodgrange had Mr B decided to originally accept its advice and proceed with 
the transfer. It seems reasonable to me that, if Mr B decided to not transfer his pension 
savings, and so avoided paying for the advice that Woodgrange had provided, he should not 
reasonably rely on that advice when he decided to transfer his pension savings at a later 
date. Mr B hasnt paid Woodgrange for its services, and I think it unreasonable that he now 
expects to use that advice free of charge.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B. But Im not satisfied that the 
transfer he is now intending is sufficiently similar to the one Woodgrange analysed. So it 
would be inappropriate for Woodgrange to confirm to the OPS trustees that it has provided 
Mr B with regulated advice in accordance with the requirements set out in section 19.1 of 
COBS.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Woodgrange Associates (IFA) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman