DRN-4058947
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered when he
sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Mr P was sadly the victim of a
scam. An email had been interfered with and account details had been changed meaning
that when he sent a payment intended for a business K who were to perform a currency
exchange for him, it instead went to an account held with Revolut.
The payment in question was for €57,977.18 and was sent on 18 March 2022. It was sent
from Mr Ps account with his own bank who are based outside the UK. Mr P realised he may
have been the victim of a scam and reported this to his own bank on 21 March 2022. Mr Ps
son (who is a customer of Revolut) also informed them of the problem with the payment the
same day.
Mr P says his own bank tried to recall the repayment without success and were told by
Revolut that no funds remained. Mr P came to our service and raised a complaint with
Revolut. Revolut sympathised but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. One of our
Investigators considered the complaint and recommended that Revolut should provide a full
refund along with 8% interest. Mr P accepted this outcome, but Revolut didnt. They instead
offered to pay Mr P a third of his loss plus interest. This was based upon them concluding
that Mr P and his own bank were both also partly responsible for the loss. When Mr P
declined this offer, Revolut asked for an Ombudsman to decide the complaint.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So Im issuing
this provisional decision to give both sides a further opportunity to comment before finalising
my decision.
I dont think there were failings by Revolut when opening the account in question. Im
satisfied they followed their process and took appropriate documents from the accountholder
when doing so. So, I dont think they could have prevented Mr Ps loss in that way.
The account that received Mr Ps money had only recently been opened. And when his
payment arrived, it flagged for further checks on Revoluts system. And before allowing their
customer access to the funds they asked for more information about the payment.
Ive seen the evidence provided by the Revolut customer which takes the form of an invoice
with Mr Ps name on it. The invoice is dated for a few days prior to the payment and is for the
same amount that was sent. Revolut accepted this evidence and released the funds to their
customer. Revolut clearly had some concerns about the payment as it flagged and they took
the above steps. But I dont think it was reasonable for Revolut to accept that invoice and I
think they should have gone further.
The evidence provided by Mr P is clear that his payment was intended for K who are a
business that perform currency exchanges. Ks name was included with the payment
instruction and this would have been visible to Revolut when they were carrying out their due
diligence in relation to the payment. But I cant see that Revolut challenged their customer
about this. And its difficult to understand how their customer reasonably could have
explained this. Revolut should also be aware of common scams including email invoice
interceptions. Its common on such scams for there to be a mismatch between the
beneficiary information included with a payment instruction and the recipient accountholder.
Revolut should also be alert to the possibility of evidence being fabricated. And here the
account was also newly opened which inadvertently increases the risk, as so little is known
about their customer.
In these circumstances, I also dont think its unreasonable to expect Revolut to take some
steps to independently check what their customer is telling them. Ultimately, in these
circumstances I dont think Revoluts customer would have been able to provide a
satisfactory explanation before Revolut were on notice that Mr Ps payment had been made
as the result of a scam (which was only a few days later). It follows that I think the full
amount of Mr Ps loss would have remained available for recovery, but for this failing by
Revolut.
I acknowledge that part of Mr Ps complaint was about Revolut responding to the notification
via his son in a prompt and proper way. But Im not going to address that in detail as Im
upholding the complaint based on the reasons set out above.
Im aware that Mr P also complained about his own bank. But I cant consider the actions of
that bank here. Im aware he referred that complaint to his local Ombudsman scheme, the
outcome of which was that whilst Mr Ps bank didnt accept liability, it paid him £10,000 as a
gesture of goodwill.
I also dont think that in the circumstances here it can fairly be said that Mr P was negligent
in such a way that its reasonable for me to make a reduction in award based on that. Ive
seen the emails that prompted him to make his payment and I dont think there was anything
that obviously indicated they werent genuine. Ive also not seen any evidence to support
that Mr P was warned about this type of scam by his own bank but carried on despite this.
So, I dont think a reduction due to contributory negligence is appropriate in the
circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things Right
The £10,000 Ive mentioned above was paid by Mr Ps bank on 10 October 2022. And at that
time there was approximately €1.14 to £1. So the gesture of goodwill equates to
approximately €11,400. When I deduct this from Mr Ps payment it gives us €46,577.18
(€57,977.18 - €11,400). So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Revolut to pay this
amount to Mr P.
I also think that 8% simple interest should be added to compensate Mr P for being without
funds he otherwise wouldve had access to. So Revolut should pay 8% simple interest
(yearly). This should be paid in the following way:
Between 21 March 2022 (when the scam was reported) and 10 October 2022 (when Mr Preceived the £10,000 from his own bank), Revolut should pay 8% simple interest on
€57,977.18.
Then from 10 October 2022 until the date of settlement 8% simple interest should be paid on
€46,577.18.
Mr P responded and said he accepted my provisional decision. Revolut responded to say 
they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd 
must take the steps outlined in Putting things Right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman