DRN-3909200
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the premiums Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds 
Bank) charged her over a number of years to renew her home insurance policies. 
What happened
Mrs B received a letter from Lloyds Bank to say her policy would automatically renew at a 
price of £267.69. Mrs B was charged £935.11 the previous year so she complained as she 
felt shed been overcharged in previous years. Lloyds Bank responded and explained the 
price Mrs B received in the recent renewal reflected changes theyd made following rules 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They explained this meant existing 
customers couldnt be charged more than new customers. They explained, in previous 
years, Mrs B wasnt overcharged and those premiums were based on their view of risk at the 
time and their pricing strategy. Mrs B referred her complaint to our service as she wants us 
to look at her renewals from 2007 to determine whether she has been overcharged.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt treated Mrs B 
unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I should start by explaining that Im only looking at what happened from 2016 onwards. The 
rules for our service say that we cant normally look at a complaint raised about an issue 
more than six years after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years after 
the complainant knew, or should have known, they had reason to complain. 
I can see Mrs B says, when she first took out the policy, she used to phone other insurers 
every couple of years to see what price they could offer  and she explains she was always 
told they couldnt beat the price offered. So, I think this demonstrates Mrs B did have 
concerns about the price being offered by Lloyds Bank, and wouldve been aware she had 
cause to complain, at the time she was making these enquiries. Lloyds Bank also havent 
agreed to our service considering events before 2016. So, given Mrs B referred her 
complaint to our service in 2022, Im unable to look at complaints about issues before 2016.
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs Bs premium for her 2020 renewal was £930.49 and then £935.11 the 
following year. So, I do understand why Mrs B then became concerned when, the following 
year, she received a price which was 71% cheaper than the previous year. Lloyds Bank 
have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mrs Bs 
premiums were calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with her because its commercially 
sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premiums she has been 
charged have been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
Lloyds Bank customers in Mrs Bs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge Mrs B wants a more detailed breakdown showing the reason for the higher 
premiums for previous years when compared to the more recent renewal price. As 
mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Lloyds Banks risk model, but I can 
see a significant factor for the lower price in 2022 relates to new rules for general insurance 
pricing introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance 
only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. 
The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs B was offered her renewal by Lloyds 
Bank in 2022, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
That said, I do acknowledge Mrs B is concerned that she mightve been paying much more 
than new customers in previous years. As Ive mentioned above, the rules arent 
retrospective so, for all renewals taken out by Mrs B before 2022, there wasnt any 
requirement for Lloyds Bank to charge Mrs B, or any other existing customer, the same price 
as new customers. So, while there hasnt been any unfairness in this respect, I have 
considered whether Mrs B was treated differently or less favourably in previous years in any 
other way.  
Lloyds Bank have told us that Mrs B has always paid below their target price and theyve told 
us how their target pricing model applies to Mrs Bs policy. The target pricing model 
demonstrates whether Lloyds Bank treated Mrs B fairly. It allows us to see whether what she 
was charged was in line with how theyve said they treated all of their policyholders  
regardless of whether they engaged with them. Im afraid I cant share the detail of their 
model with Mrs B as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds Banks business. But I hope it 
reassures Mrs B to know Ive checked Lloyds Banks target price and what shes paid since 
2016. And Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank didnt charge Mrs B more than their target price for 
each of the renewal years between 2016 to 2021. 
In addition to this, Ive seen the renewal letters sent to Mrs B in 2021 and 2022 and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did remind Mrs B that she could shop around to see if she could get a better 
price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording about the 
benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mrs B fairly, I think theyve also acted in 
line with requirements set out under ICOBS. I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the 2022 renewal price 
led her to question the price shed paid for the policy in previous years. I acknowledge Mrs B 
will feel she has been a loyal customer, but I hope my reasoning provides Mrs B with 
reassurance that she hasnt been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the 
same circumstances. I wish to reassure Mrs B Ive read and considered everything she has 
sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman