DRN-2599549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Secure Trust Bank Plc reported information about them to a 
fraud prevention agency and handled their complaint about this poorly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J applied for a financial product with another business and this was declined. 
They were told this because of fraud information reported to a third party. When they made a 
subject access request to that third party they found that there was information about them 
from Secure Trust. They complained and were unhappy with the first response as they 
thought that their complaint had been misunderstood.
Secure Trust said that they when Mr and Mrs J applied for a savings bond in June 2019 it 
had made application checks. And a record of that was held with the third party. It said it had 
told them during the application process that a search would be recorded with credit 
reference agencies which wouldnt affect their credit score and that information may be 
shared with fraud prevention agencies. This was only part of its identity search.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs J had also 
complained about the financial business that had declined their product application. And it 
had said it had made a mistake with the information it had used.
Shed seen a copy of the extract of the data supplied by the Secure Trust group to the third 
party. This wasnt a report of fraud and showed that the account status was clear. Secure 
Trust had shown that Mr and Mrs J had consented to their information being shared in this 
way. There was no mistake made by Secure Trust.
She knew that Mr and Mrs J thought that Secure Trust had misunderstood their complaint 
originally and the final response of 30 April 2020 had only referred to credit reference 
agencies and not deal with the point about fraud. It had clarified the position regarding 
reporting to fraud agencies in a follow up of 20 May 2020. But complaint handling in itself is 
not a regulated activity and not something we could consider in isolation. And so, she 
wouldnt be able to make any recommendation about that.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and wanted their complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am only looking here at what Secure Trust did. I dont think it made a mistake in the way it 
shared information about Mr and Mrs J. It had their consent to do so as part of a product 
application. And nor do I think that the information itself was incorrect or indicated that they 
had been involved in a fraud, whatever impression the other financial business might have 
given them. I have seen that by 6 April 2020 that other business had explained to them that 
it had made a mistake. 
Mr and Mrs J remain unhappy about the way Secure Trust dealt with its complaint. It didnt 
address the point they wanted it to in the final response of 30 April 2020 and gave an 
incorrect date for their product application. But it did then give them rights to refer the 
complaint to this service. It additionally dealt with the point about the fraud agency 
information which they raised on 13 May 2020 in a response of 20 May 2020.
Our investigator has explained that complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity. So, 
we wouldnt be considering a specific complaint about that where we havent found other 
failings. I know I am going to disappoint Mr and Mrs J when I say that I wont be asking 
Secure Trust to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman