DRN-2617163
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Wesleyan Bank Limited (WB) applied an incorrect interest rate to a 
fixed rate savings account.
Mrs B is represented by Mr B.
What happened
Mrs B had a one year fixed rate savings account with WB. The account matured on 2 
March 2020. She wanted to transfer the maturing funds into a new one year fixed rate 
deposit account with WB.
She applied for a new account with WB on 27 February 2020. It had an interest rate of 
1.63%. The terms and conditions stated that the account holder had 14 days from the date 
of the application to make deposits to the account. During the application process Mrs B 
was asked how the account would be funded and she ticked the option with maturing 
funds.
Mrs B contacted WB a few days later. She was concerned that it hadnt asked her to fill in 
the account number for the maturing account. WB told her that she couldnt fund the 
account by making an internal transfer from the maturing account. It said she would have to 
close the account, transfer the funds to a nominated bank account and then transfer the 
money back to the new account. Because this was going to take too long Mrs B decided to 
send a faster payment from her bank account to WB to fund the new account. She sent the 
faster payment on 4 March 2020.
Mrs B says she noticed when she was filling out the maturity form for the maturing 
account, one of the options she was given was to extend the account. She was confused 
by this and sent an email to WB on 4 March. In her email she said:
Please therefore simply extend the account or transfer the maturing funds to the
new account  if it exists - without the need for 2 bank transfers.
Mrs B says she was surprised to receive a letter from WB a few days later telling her it had 
credited the money, which had been sent by faster payment, to a new account but the rate 
of interest was 1.5%. She complained to WB.
WB investigated her complaint. It said it had spoken to her representative, Mr B, on 4 
March and hed said she wanted to cancel the application for the new account and 
instead wanted to extend the maturing account for a further year. It said the interest rate 
which applied on the date the account matured was 1.5%. So, it didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service and asked WB for a copy of the call recordings.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She said shed listened to the call recordings 
and Mrs B had confirmed she only wanted one account. She said Mrs B had agreed to 
cancel the new account. She said Mrs B wanted the maturing account to be extended for 
a further year and she was told that the rate of interest would be 1.5%. She thought Mrs B 
had been treated fairly. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator asked WB to send Mrs B copies of the call recordings which it did. Mrs 
B said that our investigators interpretation of the calls was incorrect. She didnt agree 
with what our investigator said. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read through the correspondence and listened to the call recordings. I think Mrs 
Bs intention was clear. She only wanted to have one account. She wanted to 
reinvest the maturing funds in her WB account into a fixed rate deposit account 
where the rate of interest would be 1.63%. She was told shed need to allow the 
existing fixed rate account to close before she could use the funds in the way she 
wanted.
WB changed the rate of interest it was offering on one year fixed term deposits 
from 1.63% to 1.5% on 2 March 2020. So, on the maturity date, the rate available, 
if she wanted to extend the maturing account for a further year, would have been 
1.5%.
Mrs B had already opened a new account online before this rate change had 
happened. The rate of interest on that account was 1.63%. She had 14 days from 
27 February 2020 to deposit funds into the new account. But the terms and 
conditions stated that deposits had to be made by electronic transfer or cheque. 
There was no option to transfer funds from another account held with WB. This was 
so, despite the question that appeared on the application form about how the 
account was to be funded.
I think Mrs B realised this when she reflected on the online form shed completed. It 
hadnt asked for the account number for the other account with WB. So, she 
checked the position with WB and it told her if she wanted to use the funds in the 
maturing account, shed have to close it, transfer the funds to her bank account and 
then transfer the moneys back into the new account.
Mrs B spoke to WB on 4 March. I think this is a significant call and WB has referred 
to it in its final response letter.
Ive listened carefully to the call. Mrs Bs representative, Mr B does agree that she 
just wants one account and he does confirm that she wants to extend the maturing 
account. But at the end of the call Mr B enquires about the account with the 1.63% 
interest rate. He says its not showing online.
WB confirms to Mr B that the account is still there. Mr B says he knows what hes 
going to do then. He says hes going to fill in the maturity options form. I dont 
hear him giving any specific instruction to close the account with the 1.63% interest rate. WB says it will update its notes to state that he wants to extend the term of the 
account.
During the call on 4 March 2020 WB told Mr B that if Mrs B filled in the maturity 
options form for the maturing account to say she wanted to extend it then nothing 
would change. The account number would stay the same and she wouldnt need to 
open a new account. Ive taken this information into account when considering what 
happened subsequently.
Ive thought about what was said during the call on 4 March. Mrs B just wanted one 
account. She wanted the rate of interest on that account to be 1.63%. I dont think 
that was an unreasonable request given that shed already opened the new account 
online and had secured the rate of 1.63%.
The issue was really about how that account would be funded. If she chose to use 
the maturing funds, shed have to wait until those funds reached her nominated 
bank account before she could transfer them into the new account. There was also 
a risk that shed miss the deadline for crediting the new account within 14 days of 
the date itd been opened. So, I think she decided, after being told that the new 
account (at 1.63%) was still there to send a faster payment to that account.
The faster payment was sent to WB on 4 March 2020. I can see WB acknowledged 
receipt of the funds. It sent a letter dated 10 March 2020 to Mrs B thanking her for 
her application and advised her that the funds from the faster payment had been 
credited to the account. Ive noted the account number quoted on this letter. It was a 
new account number. It was not the account number that applied to the maturing 
account.
Based on the information WB had provided during the call on 4 March, if this 
account was an extension of the maturing account, I wouldve expected the account 
number to be the same. That was not the case - it was a different number. But the 
rate of interest quoted was 1.5%.
Mrs B had also returned the maturity options form. WB hasnt provided a copy of 
the completed form so I havent been able to confirm what instruction was given. I 
can see, on 10 March 2020, WB closed the maturing account. It confirmed this by 
way of letter and said that the funds had been sent to the nominated bank account. 
Ive also noted a secure message it sent to Mrs B on 11 March which referred to 
your recent maturity closure request.
On 27 July 2020 it sent a further letter to Mrs B in which it said it had received the 
maturity option form and had extended the account for a further year to 10 March 
2021. But the account number on this letter was not the number for the maturing 
account. Instead it was the account number for the new account that had been 
opened.
So, having considered everything here, I can see there is just one fixed term 
deposit account. That account was funded with the faster payment sent on 4 March 
2020. It was not funded after the maturing account had been closed  so those 
funds couldnt have been used to fund it. Mrs B intended the faster payment shed 
sent to be invested into the account advertised with an interest rate of 1.63%. She 
was told during the phone call that that account was still there  and I didnt hear 
her representative give any instruction to close it.So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied the account held at WB by Mrs 
B is a new account opened online, funded by the faster payment shed sent on 4 
March 2020. The maturing account was not extended  WB closed that account and 
paid the funds away to the nominated bank account. Those funds were not 
reinvested with WB. So, Im currently persuaded that the rate of interest for the new 
account should be 1.63% in line with what was advertised at the time the account 
was opened.
What I propose should be done to put things right
I think its fair and reasonable that to put things right the rate of interest on the one 
year fixed rate deposit account should be 1.63%. WB should adjust the amount of 
interest payable at the maturity date to reflect this.
It is also the case that Mrs B has been inconvenienced as a result of whats 
happened. So, I think WB should pay her £50 by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given I intend to uphold this complaint about Wesleyan Bank 
Limited and I intend to require it to take the following actions:
adjust the interest paid at the end of the one year term on the new account 
opened by Mrs B so that she receives interest reflective of an interest rate of 
1.63%; and
pay Mrs B £50 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced as a result of what happened.
WB accepted my provisional decision. Mrs B also accepted my provisional decision.
So, I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both WB and Mrs B have accepted my provisional decision. WB has already taken the 
actions set out in my provisional decision and Mrs B has confirmed this has taken place.
So, having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my 
view that, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Wesleyan Bank Ltd. And, if it has 
not already taken the following actions, I now require it to:
adjust the interest paid at the end of the one year term on the new account 
opened by Mrs B so that she receives interest reflective of an interest rate of 1.63%; 
and
pay Mrs B £50 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced as a result of what happened.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman