DRN-3464459
The complaint
Mr B complains about a loan agreement with Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi.
What happened
Mr B was supplied with a new boiler and entered into a loan agreement with Duologi.
In January 2021 Mr B complained to Duologi. He said hed agreed an interest rate of 2.9% 
and not the 9.9% he was being charged.
In response, Duologi said it was upholding the complaint and agreed to reduce the interest 
charged.
Duologi migrated to a new account management system in March 2021. Mr Bs loan wasnt 
uploaded to the system for several months. When it was uploaded, the original 9.9% interest 
rate was reinstated. 
Mr B received an annual statement in January 2022 which showed the 9.9% interest rate, so 
he contacted Duologi to complain again.
Duologi began investigating but have not yet reached a resolution for Mr B so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Duologi had acted fairly. He said that because Duologi had 
agreed to reduce the interest rate in final settlement of Mr Bs initial complaint, it would be 
fair for it to honour the 2.9% interest rate and adjust Mr Bs repayments to reflect this. The 
investigator also said that Duologi should pay compensation to Mr B for the worry caused to 
him.
Duologi said it agreed to pay compensation but said it was still investigating the interest 
reduction. It said it thought it had reached the incorrect outcome at the time of the original 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the final response issued by Duologi on 17 March 2021. In that response, 
Duologi stated that it would reduce Mr Bs interest rate to 2.9%.
I appreciate that Duologi made its offer based on limited information from the supplier. It now 
says that it believes the outcome was wrong and that the interest rate shouldnt have been 
reduced.
When a business makes a final offer to resolve a complaint, as Duologi did here, then Id 
expect the business to honour that resolution. Mr B was told that the interest rate would be 
reduced to 2.9% for the remainder of the loan agreement. I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for Duologi to resile from that resolution now.
Ive considered the impact that this has had on Mr B. Mr B became aware that the interest 
rate had gone back up to 9.9% in January 2022 when he received his annual statement. 
Since then, hes been caused a great deal of worry because hes concerned that the interest 
rate has gone up when he thought this had already been resolved.
Putting things right
To put things right, Duologi should honour the resolution it set out in its final response letter 
and reduce the interest rate to 2.9%. it should adjust Mr Bs account to reflect this.
Its clear that Mr B has been caused worry by this. Having considered the impact, I think its 
fair to ask Duologi to pay compensation of £150 for the distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi 
must:
Honour the 2.9% interest rate and adjust Mr Bs loan agreement accordingly
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman