DRN-3417503
The complaint
Ms S complains about AIG Life Limiteds handling of her critical illness claim payment. She 
says it paid her an incorrect value following her diagnosis of cancer in January 2021, as her 
sum assured had undergone an annual increase three days earlier. 
To resolve the complaint, Ms S wants AIG to pay her £38,288.45, the difference between the 
2020 and 2021 sums assured.   
What happened
Ms S took out her policy in 2015 through an independent financial adviser. It was originally 
taken out with AGEAS, but it was taken over thereafter by AIG. The policy had an initial sum 
assured of £600,000 for a 38-year term and comprised life and critical illness cover. The 
policy had an increasing sum assured and premium, each rising by 5% each January.
In March 2019, Ms S moved to a second home overseas. Correspondence between Ms S 
and AIG thereafter took place via email.  
On 2 December 2020, AIG contacted Ms S to inform her that the sum assured would 
increase to £804,057.39 effective 12 January 2021.  
Ms S sadly went on to be diagnosed with a type of breast cancer on 15 January 2021, 
following a lump she had found in 2020. She made a claim to AIG for critical illness benefit.  
AIG accepted the claim on 27 May 2021. It backdated the payment of £765,768.94 to 4 
January 2021 and returned £1253.28 Ms S had paid in premiums since that date. The claim 
was accepted at the date when Ms S underwent a biopsy and the diagnosis was satisfied.
Ms S complained. She said that she had a biopsy overseas at her own request as a 
precaution due to the lump, but she was told by the doctor that it did not look concerning. 
AIG rejected the complaint in July 2021. It said it had correctly paid the claim. The policy 
wording of 'histological confirmation' meant the cancer had been confirmed through biopsy 
on 4 January 2021 and so that was when the diagnosis took place, not when it was notified 
to Ms S in the pathology report of 13 January 2021.  
AIG said it took this approach because it had to be consistent with all customers. Though Ms 
S had a policy with an increasing sum assured, many customers had decreasing term 
policies alongside mortgage lending  so being accurate about the date of diagnosis was 
key and it was accepted across the industry that for cancer, the diagnosis comes from the 
date at which a biopsy takes place.   
Ms S brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She said she didnt believe AIG could fairly hide behind using an industry 
standard approach to paying her claim  it ought to comply with the terms and conditions of 
her contract of insurance. She also felt that a fair and reasonable approach to her claim was 
not to generalise by looking at standard industry practice, as this was an arbitrary method.    
She also said that a biopsy date was unreliable because it could not be said with certainty at 
that time whether she had cancer or not. Ms S took the view that there must be an analysis 
which follows a biopsy, because her lump could have turned out to be benign. As it was, 
there was no way she could have known earlier than 13 January 2021 that she had an 
invasive cancer, and this was one day after the sum assured rose by over £38,000.  
An investigator from this service then reviewed the complaint. He took the view that the 
earliest medical evidence which met Ms Ss policy wording was the pathology report of 13 
January 2021. And by this date, the sum assured had increased the day before. He 
therefore recommended that AIG pay the difference between the two claim payments, with 
interest and a further £200 for the additional upset Ms S had been caused. 
AIG disagreed. It said it had acted in accordance with a report undertaken by the Health 
Claims Forum, an industry body which had conducted analysis to establish best practice for 
insurers paying critical illness claims. 
This report had set out a diagnosis date for all of the main listed conditions for policies in 
accordance with the Association of British Insurers model wording. For cancer, it said the 
diagnosis date ought to be the date of the biopsy or other test that generates a definite 
diagnosis of cancer that satisfies the policy definition. 
It also said that the biopsy report was dated 5 January 2021 from the biopsy of 4 January 
2021 and the pathology report referred to by our investigator was generated based on the 
biopsy. That report said that the biopsy showed histological confirmation of invasive cancer. 
AIG noted that the investigators reasoning was contrary to industry practice and this could 
have a detrimental effect on policyholders that have decreasing sum assured. The correct 
approach to ensure valid claims were paid fairly was to accept them at the date the evidence 
showed the policy wording was met  and in Ms Ss case, this was 4 January 2021. 
AIG asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I send my best wishes to Ms S and I was sorry to learn of her diagnosis. 
I agree with Ms S insofar as the importance of the terms applying to her cover, as they form 
the contract of insurance between herself and (now) AIG. 
Ms Ss policy wording for her condition says:
Cancer - excluding less advanced cases 
Definition - ABI+
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, sarcoma and lymphoma except 
cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma confined to the skin).
The wording goes further and lists exclusions, but these dont apply here. When deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I will take 
into account relevant law, regulations, guidance, standards, codes of practice and where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time. This is in 
addition to the contractual arrangements between the parties. 
With that in mind, I believe the guidance AIG has pointed to sets a quantifiable standard for 
insurers as to the relevant date of diagnosis for all key conditions contained within critical 
illness policies. I wont repeat the content of the report here, but I consider it a fair proposal 
to set the date of a biopsy for a type of cancer as the relevant date of diagnosis if the biopsy 
goes on to confirm histological confirmation of the presence of a cancer of a specified 
severity which is sufficient to meet the cancer definition in a given policy.  
I also do not think an insurer is unfair in principle by using the date of a biopsy as the 
relevant date for the purposes of satisfying valid claims of cancer. For claims of this nature, 
there must be a point at which an insurer is liable to pay the claim, if all of the key terms are 
met. In relation to the biopsy, it is the instance where histological confirmation is provided.  
The reason there must be an identifiable point at which a condition exists for the purposes of 
satisfying a claim is that some policyholders have decreasing sums assured where any 
delay to a claim could reduce a claim payment. Also, some policies may expire after a 
condition was known to have existed by way of histological confirmation upon biopsy but 
before any diagnosis was given by a consultant. Though Ms S has suggested otherwise, this 
does not affect policyholders where the biopsies produce negative results, because no claim 
is payable anyway in those circumstances.  
Ms S also says that the production of a report thereafter must infer that additional 
consideration took place in between. I understand why she takes that view and why she has 
explained that the performance of a biopsy itself is not the same as a cancer diagnosis  as 
she feels diagnosis means confirmation by an appropriate consultant or specialist. Thats 
since Ms S was told of her diagnosis on 15 January 2011, following the pathology report of 
13 January 2011.
As Ive said earlier, I believe the fair way to determine this complaint is by reference to the 
policy itself. Ms Ss specific policy wording sets out a critical illness definition, which is:
An illness excluding Total Disability and total permanent disability that:
we cover under Critical Illness with Term Assurance (see section B2);
meets our definition of that critical illness in section B2;
is diagnosed by a consultant [my emphasis];
is the first and unequivocal diagnosis of the illness, and
is confirmed by our Consultant Medical Officer.
It also explains at section B1 how AIG:
will pay the benefit if the person covered:
dies, or
is diagnosed with a critical illness and [my emphasis] the diagnosis meets 
our definition of critical illness.
Notwithstanding that I do not find it principally unfair to consider the point at which a biopsy 
confirms malignancy to satisfy the evidence needed to show the existence of cancer of a 
specified severity (and along with the industry guidance, the date of diagnosis), in this case 
Ms Ss policy terms go further than the presence of defined cancer. Those terms also require Ms S to satisfy both limbs of section B1. This means the critical illness definition needs to be 
met, including that it must be unequivocally (and firstly) diagnosed by a consultant. 
Therefore, applying Ms Ss particular terms to the medical information, the evidence of 
cancer which was present on the biopsy was not reviewed by Ms Ss treating consultant until 
15 January 2021. She confirmed as such in her email to AIG of 29 April 2021 where she 
explained that it was the pathology report which confirmed Ms Ss specific type of cancer 
and its staging, which she conveyed to Ms S two days later. 
I have seen no objective evidence that the treating consultant confirmed the diagnosis any 
earlier than 13 or 15 January 2021. By this time, Ms Ss policys sum assured had changed, 
in accordance with the 5% increase set out in the policy terms. The increased sum assured 
was therefore due to Ms S.  
To be clear, my findings do not disregard the good practice framework on dates of claim put 
forward by the Health Claims Forum, the ABI or any other relevant industry body. I have 
borne this in mind alongside the terms and conditions of Ms Ss policy. However, in this 
case, it would not be fair or proportionate to disregard the requirements of the contract of 
insurance where those terms form the basis upon which Ms Ss claim was validated. 
Putting things right
AIG should pay the remaining proportion of Ms S's critical illness claim (£38,288.45) in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and based on the sum assured as at 
12 January 2021, given Ms Ss critical illness was diagnosed as required by the wording 
after that date.  
Interest should be added to the claim payment. This should be at a gross annual rate of 8% 
simple, less tax (if properly deductible), from the date the claim shouldve been paid to the 
date of settlement.
I understand that no further refund of premiums is due to Ms S as these have already been 
returned with the first claim payment. 
Finally, AIG ought to pay Ms S £200 for the upset she has been caused in having to pursue 
the balance of the claim at a time where she was unwell. She has explained that this has 
caused an impact on her, and I believe some compensation to account for that distress is 
warranted in these circumstances.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AIG Life Limited should pay Ms Ss remaining claim for critical illness 
benefit, with interest and a payment for upset for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman