DRN-3726062
The complaint
Mr T moved his mortgage from Nationwide Building Society. But his old mortgage wasnt
fully redeemed. He complains about how this happened, and that Nationwide then referred
the outstanding payment straight to a debt collection agency, without contacting him.
What happened
Mr T told us his remortgage was due to take place on 26 November 2021, moving his 
mortgage away from Nationwide. Mr T said hed understood this had gone through, so he 
cancelled his direct debit to Nationwide. But the completion then had to be reversed due to 
an error by one of the parties involved  Mr T has since told us that this was an error by the 
solicitor his new bank had appointed. So his remortgage was reprocessed a week later.
Mr T said he was told everything was ok and his old mortgage was closed, but then he got a
letter from a debt collection agency working for Nationwide, which said he owed over £1,700.
Mr T said he didnt have this money any more. Although there had been some money spare
from his new mortgage, that had now been used to reduce his debt to the new bank.
Mr T said hed had no contact from Nationwide. He said he didnt want to work with a debt
collection agency for something that hadnt been brought to his attention first. He wanted
compensation for the huge stress and inconvenience this had caused, and said that it was
making things worse, against a background of difficult personal circumstances.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It showed us a letter from Mr Ts new
bank, where that bank accepts responsibility for whats gone wrong, leaving Mr T with an
outstanding balance on his mortgage.
Nationwide said after the first redemption failed, it issued a new redemption statement, on 29
November. That statement assumed Mr T made his payment due on 27 November. But his
direct debt wasnt paid. So when the mortgage was redeemed on the basis of this statement,
there was a shortfall, resulting from Mr Ts missed November payment.
Nationwide said it wrote to Mr Ts solicitor about this on 15 December 2021, 31 December
2021 and 14 January 2022. It showed us these letters, which said Mr T still owed just over
£1,700 and until this amount was paid the mortgage couldn't be closed. But Mr Ts solicitor
didnt respond to Nationwide. Nationwide said thats why it referred this to a debt collection
agency. It said this hadnt affected Mr Ts credit file.
Nationwide said Mr Ts solicitor has a responsibility to ensure its letters were relayed to him.
Nationwide said it knew Mr T would have liked a response to his complaint sooner, but it
does have 56 days to investigate his concerns and respond in writing. So it said it had acted
within these timescales. And Nationwide set out how Mr T could clear this debt.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He thought Nationwide should
have contacted Mr T directly, before referring this to a debt collection agency. So he thought
Nationwide should recall the debt from that agency, and pay Mr T compensation.
Neither side wanted to accept this proposed resolution.
Nationwide still didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it didnt think it should have to
pay compensation. It said it had passed this to a debt collection agency because the agency
could check Mr Ts address, but also because the agency could be more flexible in coming
to a repayment arrangement with Mr T. It said that wouldnt incur any costs for Mr T, and
wouldnt show on his credit file.
Nationwide said it hadnt written to Mr T for data protection reasons. It didnt know, after his
remortgage, whether the address it held for him was still where he lived. Nationwide thought
it was appropriate to write to Mr Ts solicitor.
Nationwide wanted to know, if it recalled the debt, whether Mr T could pay it all off?
Mr T didnt think the amount of compensation was enough to make up for what had gone
wrong. He wanted an ombudsman to consider the complaint. And he wanted me to carefully
consider that he did have money to pay the shortfall  it was part of his new mortgage. But
when Nationwide said the mortgage account had been closed, Mr T used that money to
reduce his new mortgage. He felt wed not looked at this point.
Mr T didnt want to commit to paying the amount in full now, and said this might need to be
referred back to the debt collection agency, but he wanted the debt to be recalled first so he
could discuss it with Nationwide.
And Mr T said it was laughable to say that Nationwide couldnt get in touch with him. He said
it could still have used his mobile phone number or email address to contact him.
Nationwide then wrote again to say it would bring Mr Ts debt back in house and its
redemptions team would get in touch, to try to agree repayment with him.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr T brought this complaint to our service alone. Although this mortgage was held jointly 
with another person, I do think its appropriate for our service to consider this complaint.
Nationwide sent us a recording of a call it had with Mr T on 29 November. Mr T said he 
was ringing because hed understood that his remortgage had gone through, but his 
bank said that Nationwide was trying to take the direct debit for that monthly payment.
Nationwide said it couldnt see if Mr Ts mortgage had been redeemed on 26 November, 
it does take some time for a redemption to be processed. And it couldnt see that his 
direct debit had bounced, although Mr T said it had, because hed cancelled the direct 
debit. But Mr T understood, because he repeated this and it was confirmed, that if his 
solicitors had made the redemption payment due on 26 November, then Nationwide 
didnt need the monthly mortgage payment that was due on 29 November. Mr T ended 
this call by saying that he would contact his solicitors to check this.Mr T presumably didnt know before this call, that his mortgage hadnt been redeemed 
as planned, something had gone wrong. But it seems likely that he found out not long 
after this. We know that a new redemption figure was provided by Nationwide on 29 
November, valid until 7 December. We also now know Nationwide put together that 
figure on the basis that Mr T would make his monthly payment due in late November. 
But he didnt, he had understood he didnt need to, and hed cancelled the direct debit.
Mr T says he doesnt know who was responsible for his first attempt at remortgaging 
going wrong. But his new bank has written to Nationwide, to say it was responsible for 
the errors that left this outstanding balance on Mr Ts mortgage. So I dont think the 
failure of the first attempt to remortgage was Nationwides fault. And I dont think the 
mix-up that then resulted in Mr T not paying his November mortgage payment, and a 
shortfall in the second, successful redemption, was Nationwides fault either.
Mr T told us he doesnt have the money now to cover the shortfall. He said there was 
some money left over when his second remortgage was processed, and he only used 
this to pay off some of the new mortgage when Nationwide confirmed his old mortgage 
account was closed. But he also said hed asked his new bank if this money was owed 
to anyone. It said no, and thats when he used the money to reduce his new mortgage.
I understand Mr T thought his Nationwide mortgage had been closed, with a zero 
balance. I think thats likely to be because Nationwide moved his debt elsewhere, not 
because he didnt owe any money. But I also think Mr T ought to have been made 
aware that there was an outstanding debt by the solicitors who actioned this 
remortgage. Nationwide wrote to those solicitors on 15 December, just over a week after 
his redemption was done, saying there was a shortfall and that it wouldnt release the 
charge on Mr Ts property until the shortfall was paid. So Mr T should have been made 
aware by those solicitors that there was an outstanding debt. Again, I dont think that 
what has gone wrong here is Nationwides fault.
Mr T feels strongly that Nationwide ought not to have sent this debt through to a debt 
collection agency before it got in touch with him. He doesnt think it should just have 
sent letters to his solicitor. He said Nationwide should have been able to contact him, 
because it had his address, email and phone number.
I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably or unfairly when it wrote to Mr Ts solicitor, 
rather than directly to him. Nationwide said it didnt know if Mr T had moved house or 
not, and it would prefer not to write to an address that might not be the right one for him. 
I also think its important to note that Nationwide wasnt just writing about a debt. It was 
writing about a legal transaction conducted by Mr Ts solicitors. It was explaining that it 
wouldnt complete this transaction, by removing its charge from Mr Ts property, until it 
received the outstanding money.
In these circumstances, I think it was entirely appropriate for Nationwide to address its 
correspondence to Mr Ts solicitors, rather than directly to him. This is something I 
would expect those solicitors to seek to resolve, in the first instance. And I also think it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to assume that Mr T would be notified promptly and fully 
by those solicitors about this problem.
If that didnt happen, then I dont think thats Nationwides fault. So I dont think 
Nationwide has to pay compensation, because it didnt send these letters directly to Mr 
T as well.Mr T says he didnt get these letters, or any contact from the solicitors. And he says 
when Nationwide did finally write to him, to say it had involved a debt collection agency, 
this letter said it had previously written to him, not his solicitors. He said Nationwide 
hadnt done that, and it was terrible customer service for Nationwide to pass this debt 
externally without writing to him directly.
Ive explained I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to write to the solicitor, and also 
for it to assume those letters reached Mr T, so that he was aware of the issue. And that 
means I also dont think it has to pay compensation because the letter it did send 
directly to Mr T referred to previous correspondence sent to him, not to the solicitor 
working on his remortgage.
Nationwide says that its debt collection agency can work with Mr T, review what he can 
afford, and put in place a repayment plan perhaps over a period of time. This firm can 
be more flexible in its arrangements with Mr T than Nationwide is able to be. But Mr T 
said he didnt want to deal with the debt management agency in the first instance, 
although he also said the debt may need to be referred back to the agency in future.
Nationwide has now said it will recall the debt, and try to reach an agreement with Mr T 
on payment. I do think thats an appropriate step for Nationwide to take here. Although I 
dont think its Nationwides fault that Mr T didnt get an opportunity to talk to it before the 
debt was passed across to the debt collection agency, it may not be Mr Ts fault either, if 
the solicitors that Nationwide wrote to didnt tell him about this problem.
Nationwide says there are limits on what it can do to work with Mr T to pay back this 
debt, because its systems dont support flexible repayment plans. I note that Nationwide 
may need to pass this debt back to its debt collection agency, if it isnt able to reach an 
agreement with Mr T, or if the agreement it reaches with him is something it cant 
manage in-house.
Mr T has also expressed dissatisfaction with how Nationwide handled his complaint. Our 
service cant consider a complaint which is itself about complaint handling, so I havent 
looked at this point separately here.
Id like to close by saying that I understand Mr T feels very strongly about this complaint, 
and I do recognise that this has left him in a difficult position. But I just dont think that 
Nationwide is responsible for whats gone wrong here. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask it to pay compensation, when I dont think its at fault. I know Mr T 
will be disappointed, but I dont think Nationwide has to do more than recall this debt, 
and seek to reach an agreement with him on repayment.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr T said he wanted to understand who I thought was at fault, and why. He also said that if I 
acknowledged it wasnt him, then he also wanted to know why he should be left to address 
and manage the problem.We do know that Mr Ts new bank wrote to Nationwide in February 2022, and in that letter it 
accepted responsibility for what had gone wrong. That bank said Due to errors [it] made in 
the processing of this transfer, the above outstanding balance was left on Mr Ts account. 
This letter also said I would be grateful if you would take this letter as confirmation that Mr T 
was not at fault for this outstanding balance. So Mr Ts new bank says that Mr T didnt 
cause this problem. It said it was at fault. 
Im not deciding here whether thats right or not. Thats for two reasons. The first is that I 
havent seen any details of Mr Ts complaint against his sending bank, which I would need to 
reach a view on whether that bank is at fault. And the second is that it isnt my role, in this 
case, to decide whether Mr Ts new bank is at fault. All I am able to consider here is Mr Ts 
complaint against Nationwide. And I havent been able to see that Nationwide is at fault. 
I dont think that means Mr T should be left to address and manage the problem alone. I 
think Nationwide should work with Mr T to resolve this. But I also think it has tried to do so. 
And for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think I could reasonably require Nationwide to waive 
the outstanding balance on this mortgage, when it hasnt caused the problem.
Mr T also said he would be interested to understand why, if the Nationwide process was 
reasonable, Nationwide had since changed it. We asked Nationwide about this, and it said it 
hasnt changed its process. What it has done is agreed to bring this shortfall back in-house 
and try to come to an arrangement with Mr T to repay it. Nationwide says it did this as a 
gesture of goodwill to assist in resolving the complaint, rather than a change in process. Ive 
explained that I think that was an appropriate step to take in this case.
I have considered Mr Ts further comments on this case, but I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must recall Mr Ts debt from its debt 
collection agency and seek to reach an agreement with him on repayment, if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman