DRN-3321133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are complaining about the information they were given by Santander UK 
Plc when they contacted them to switch their mortgage product and take some additional 
borrowing. They say they would have done things differently if theyd been given the 
correct information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a repayment mortgage with Santander. Their mortgage was in two 
parts and on different interest rates. In June 2020 Part 1 had an outstanding balance of 
around £177,000 on a 1.99% 5-year fixed rate which expires on 2 July 2024. Part 2 had 
an outstanding balance of around £223,000 on a 2-year fixed rate product at 1.49% 
which expired on 2 October 2020.
In May 2020 Mr L called Santander to talk through applying for some additional borrowing. 
He asked the call handler if it was possible to tie in the additional borrowing with switching 
to a new rate. The call handler explained that the process was to be referred to a 
mortgage adviser who would look at things in more detail and sort out a new rate at that 
stage. But they could also sort out a new rate first and do the application for additional 
borrowing afterwards.
On 1 June 2020 Mr L called Santander again. He explained that they wanted to borrow 
some extra money for home improvements, and also take out a new rate on Part 2 of 
their mortgage. The call handler explained there were two ways of doing things. Mr and 
Mrs L could either book a new fixed rate first and apply for the additional borrowing 
afterwards, or complete an application for additional borrowing and then apply for the 
new fixed rate. He told Mr L hed need to decide which route hed like to go down during 
that call so the right process could be followed.
Mr L asked for advice about which was the best way to proceed, including the difference 
in cost. The call handler looked at the loan to value (LTV) of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
and calculated that the maximum they could borrow would be around £138,000, limited 
by an LTV of 85%.
After discussing the available rates and what would be the most cost-effective option, Mr L 
decided to book the 1.64% fixed rate for his existing borrowing first and do the additional 
borrowing application separately afterwards. The call handler passed him to a mortgage 
adviser to arrange the rate switch. A 5-year fixed rate of 1.64% was agreed (including a 
product fee of £999 added to the loan) with the new rate due to come into force when Mr 
and Mrs Ls existing fixed rate expired on 2 October 2020. Santander sent a rate switch 
offer to Mr and Mrs L, which they signed and accepted on the same day.
Later that day Mr L called Santander again to apply for the additional borrowing. He spoke 
to a different call handler who took the details of Mr and Mrs Ls income. She explained 
that Mr and Mrs L would only be able to borrow around £60,000 based on their income. 
She said a mortgage adviser would call them to complete the application.
On 6 June 2020 a mortgage adviser called Mr L back. The mortgage adviser explained 
that he was calling to arrange the additional borrowing and to arrange a new fixed rate 
for when the existing rate expired. Mr L said that theyd already agreed a new fixed rate, 
and explained what had happened.
The mortgage adviser didnt know Mr and Mrs L had already agreed the rate switch until 
Mr L told him. He asked if Mr and Mrs L had returned their agreement and Mr L 
confirmed they had. The mortgage adviser explained he would try and cancel the rate 
switch as he thought Mr and Mrs L could have received a better deal if theyd waited to 
speak to him.
Mr L said this is what hed asked for in his first call. He said hed understood from the call 
hed had that hed get a better rate by applying for the new fixed rate before completing 
the additional borrowing, and that applying for a new fixed rate first would also be a 
shorter process.
The mortgage adviser said hed check if it was possible to cancel the rate switch. He 
called Mr L back and explained that Santander could now only offer the additional 
borrowing at the additional borrowing rate of 1.99%, because the existing rate switch 
couldnt be cancelled. It also became clear that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt be able to apply for 
the additional borrowing until the new fixed rate began in October 2020. Mr L said he 
wanted to complain, and the mortgage adviser explained he would pass his complaint on 
to be investigated.
On 11 June 2020 Santander replied to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to say they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. They said, in summary, that the call handler had given Mr 
L correct information based on what hed known at the time. They said theyd allow Mr 
and Mrs Ls rate switch from 1.49% to the new fixed rate of 1.64% to go ahead 
immediately, to allow them to complete their additional borrowing application straight 
away.
Mr and Mrs L went on to apply for additional borrowing of just over £65,000. This 
was completed on an additional borrowing rate of 1.99%.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us. They said, in summary, that they felt they 
were mis-led by the call handler of 1 June 2020 and pressured to make a decision, 
when they should have been able to talk to a mortgage adviser first about the best way 
to proceed.
They said if theyd been able to speak to a mortgage adviser beforehand, they would 
have applied for the additional borrowing at the same time as applying for a new fixed 
rate, which would have led to them being in a better financial position overall because 
their additional borrowing would have been at a lower rate.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, so 
their complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 January 2022. I provisionally decided to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ls complaint. This is what I said.
In the call on 1 June 2020 the call handler was giving information to Mr L, not advice. But 
I think its important to highlight that during this call Mr L was unsure of the best way 
forward and asked for advice about how best to proceed. And when the call handler 
spoke to Mr L he said very early on in the call that Mr L must make a decision during the 
call about how he wanted to proceed. So I can see why Mr L felt pressured into making a decision then and there.
The call handler looked at the value of Mr and Mr Ls house and told Mr L they could 
borrow up to £138,000  limited by an LTV of 85%. He went on to base the information 
he gave about the available rates on this figure. He explained that the additional 
borrowing rate was 1.99%. But he then went on to tell Mr L that if they did the additional 
borrowing and rate switch application at the same time they could take the whole amount 
on a 5-year fixed rate of 1.64%. Mr L initially said theyd like to do that.
But Mr L then asked the call handler if the fixed rate of 1.64% would still be available if he 
completed the applications at the same time, because the LTV would increase due to the 
additional borrowing. And its only then that the call handler said that the 1.64% rate was 
based on an LTV of 63%, rather than the LTV of 85%. Mr L said so the 1.64% would 
probably not be available because the mortgage would go up? The call handler said that 
the available rates would most likely go up after the additional borrowing application 
because the LTV would have increased to 85%.
Its clear from the call that its this information which led Mr L to change his mind and 
decide to apply for the new fixed rate before applying for the additional borrowing. And I 
think this is important, because if Mr and Mrs L had known at that time that theyd be 
unable to borrow above 75% LTV based on their income, I think Mr L would have stuck to 
his decision to go ahead with applying for everything on the same rate.
I think it should have been clear to the call handler that Mr and Mrs L needed advice on 
the best way to proceed  which he was unable to give them. So I think Mr and Mrs L 
should have been referred to a mortgage adviser to discuss how much they could borrow 
based on their income, and the rates available to them at that level of borrowing, before 
they were forced to make a decision about how they wanted to go ahead with the 
additional borrowing and the rate switch. I dont think it was fair for them to be told they 
needed to make a decision before a proper assessment of the amount they could borrow 
had taken place, because it affected the rates that would have been available to them.
If Mr and Mrs L had spoken to a mortgage adviser upfront, it would have been clear 
theyd still qualify for the lower fixed rate available under 75% LTV once the additional 
borrowing had been completed. And I think they would have made a different decision 
about how to proceed.
Im also bearing in mind that I think it was clear Mr and Mrs L wanted to complete the 
additional borrowing application straight away. And at no point during the calls before they 
accepted the rate switch was it explained to them that if they applied for a new fixed rate 
before applying for the additional borrowing, they couldnt complete the additional borrowing 
application before their current fixed rate expired  which was over three months  later. I 
think this was important information which should have been explained to Mr L when he 
asked for advice about how best to proceed.
Santander say Mr L should have explained Mr and Mrs Ls intention to complete 
additional borrowing to the mortgage adviser Mr L spoke to when he completed the 
application for the new fixed rate. They also say the terms and conditions make it clear 
no changes could be made to the mortgage before the new fixed rate came into effect.
But I think it was reasonable for Mr L to expect that the mortgage adviser would have 
known Mr and Mrs L intended to apply for additional borrowing, bearing in mind the 
discussion hed had with the previous call handler about it. And I think he would have 
expected any restrictions about when they could apply for the additional borrowing to be 
explained to him before then.While the terms of the switch agreement do say that no changes could be made to the 
mortgage, I dont think this should have alerted Mr and Mrs L that they couldnt complete 
the additional borrowing application before the new rate came into force. I say this 
because during the conversation with Mr L the call handler had explained that the 
additional borrowing application would be a separate process to be completed after the 
new rate was taken. So I think Mr and Mrs L would have seen the additional borrowing 
application as a separate process, rather than a change to the existing mortgage.
I think if this had been explained to Mr and Mrs L before they accepted the new fixed rate 
agreement, this would also have contributed to them making a different decision about 
how to proceed. Its clear Mr and Mrs L wanted to make the additional borrowing 
application as soon as possible. And I dont think they would have chosen to fix the rate 
first if theyd known thered be a significant delay before they could make their application.
Putting things right
Overall I dont think Santander have treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. I think they should have 
done more to make sure Mr and Mrs L received the correct information to make an 
informed decision about how to proceed with their additional borrowing and rate switch 
application before Mr and Mrs L committed to the rate switch.
In order to put things right, I need to decide what, if anything, Mr and Mrs L would have 
done differently if theyd spoken to the mortgage adviser before they committed to the rate 
switch, rather than afterwards.
Ive needed to make some assumptions here about what Mr and Mrs L would have done. 
So Ill consider anything else Mr and Mrs L, and Santander, would like to add on this point. 
But provisionally I think after speaking to the mortgage adviser its most likely Mr and Mrs 
L would have decided to complete the additional borrowing application and the rate switch 
at the same time.
Ive asked Santander about the rates that would have been available to Mr and Mrs L at 
the time of the conversation with the mortgage adviser on 6 June 2020. I understand that 
the
5-year fixed rate available for under 75% LTV was still at 1.64%. I think its most likely this 
is the rate Mr and Mrs L would have chosen to switch to and to complete their additional 
borrowing application on. So I think Santander should re-work Mr and Mrs Ls account to 
put them back in the position they would have been in if theyd taken this option, rather 
than taking the additional borrowing at the higher rate of 1.99%.
Santander have told me it generally takes around four weeks for an additional borrowing 
application to be processed, so they should use this timescale when re-working the 
account.
Santanders error has caused upset and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs L. So I think 
Santander should also pay them £300 in compensation. I think this is fair, reasonable and 
in line with awards made in similar circumstances, taking into account the impact on Mr 
and Mrs L.
I asked Santander and Mr and Mrs L to reply with anything they wished to add by 18 
February 2022.
Mr and Mrs L replied with some further points theyd like me to consider. They said they 
thought theyd been charged a separate fee for the additional lending application, and theyd 
like that to be refunded.They also said (in summary) that they thought they should be allowed to repay the additional 
borrowing without being charged an early repayment charge (ERC.) They said they only 
decided to take out the new fixed rate because they thought they could borrow the higher 
amount of £138,000  which they needed to complete the work on their house and to allow 
Mr Ls father to be comfortable. And when they were told they could only borrow around 
£65,000, they were already trapped with Santander because of the ERC on their new fixed 
rate product. 
Santander replied to say they accepted my provisional decision, and were willing to re-work 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account. Theyve explained how they will go about administering 
this, as follows:
Provide the 1.64% Fixed Rate for the additional borrowing and backdate this to when the 
additional borrowing completed. The customers will need to sign our paperwork for this 
to go ahead. The 1.64% Fixed Rate will end at the same time as the original borrowing, 
which will allow the customers to choose one new rate when the time comes for the two 
loan parts;
We will waive the associated Early Repayment Charge for the additional borrowing;
We will provide the customers with 8% simple interest on the difference in payments
until settlement. This will be paid to their Santander current account;
Once the backdate has been completed, this will create a credit on the Mortgage
Account. The customers can either confirm they wish to have the funds reduce the
mortgage balance, or they can choose to receive a refund to the Santander current
account which pays the mortgage;
We will provide a goodwill payment to the customers of £300. This will be paid to their 
Santander current account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr and Mrs L say they were charged an additional fee when they switched to the new fixed 
rate product early so they could complete the additional borrowing. They think this was 
added to the borrowing, as its not showing as having left their bank account. Santander say 
they werent charged an additional fee at this point, and the only fee applied was the product 
fee of £999 for the 1.64% fixed rate, which was added to the loan.
I agree that if Mr and Mrs L were charged an additional fee when they switched their product 
early to take out the additional borrowing, this should be refunded  because it wouldnt have 
been charged if they didnt need to leave the product early to make a separate additional 
borrowing application. But Ive not seen anything to show they were charged a fee when 
they took out the additional borrowing, either through leaving their previous product early or 
when taking out the additional borrowing. 
Theres nothing in the additional borrowing paperwork to show a fee for taking the additional 
borrowing has been added to the loan, and there was no product fee associated with the 
additional borrowing application. And the ERC for Mr and Mrs Ls previous product wasnt 
applied, because Santander allowed them to leave the product early. Ive looked at the 
mortgage account history and the only fee added to the total borrowing over this period is 
the £999 product fee for the 1.64% fixed rate.
I can see that there was another fee mentioned in relation to both Mr and Mrs Ls previous 
product and the additional borrowing which is the mortgage account fee of £225. This fee 
cant be added to the loan, as its payable on completion, although it can be deferred until 
the mortgage ends. Santanders explained that its set out separately in each product switch 
or additional borrowing offer, but its only charged once over the life of the mortgage. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs L paid the mortgage account fee when they left their product early to 
apply for the additional borrowing, because I think it would have shown in their bank account 
 but even if they did, I dont think it was a loss to them, because its a fee thats payable 
once over the life of the mortgage anyway.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs L have said about being tied into the fixed rate 
with Santander. Sadly, theyve recently experienced a bereavement which means theyre 
now likely to be able to make a lump sum payment to their mortgage. So I can understand 
why theyd like to be on a rate where theyd have more freedom to repay the additional 
borrowing without ERCs. But I must make my decision based on what its most likely they 
would have done at the time, rather than with hindsight due to the change in their 
circumstances. And at the time their preference was for a fixed rate.
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs L felt tied to taking the additional borrowing with Santander 
because of the ERC, even when they found out they couldnt borrow as much as they 
wanted. But they could never have borrowed the amount they originally wanted from 
Santander, because the amount they actually borrowed was the maximum Santander would 
lend to them under their policy. 
So, to borrow the amount they wanted they would have had to go to another lender. But 
there was no guarantee they would have been able to borrow the amount they wanted with 
another lender. And even if they had been able to borrow significantly more with another 
lender, I think its most likely they would still have taken out another fixed rate, as this was 
their preference in line with their circumstances at the time. So, theyd still have a product 
with an ERC now. 
Overall, I still think its most likely Mr and Mrs L would have taken the additional borrowing 
on the same rate as the rate theyd chosen for their other borrowing, if theyd been given the 
correct information about how much they could borrow when they should have been. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require Santander to allow them to switch the 
additional borrowing to a tracker rate now, or allow them to repay it without being charged an 
ERC.
Putting things right
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, but after considering everything carefully Ive not seen 
anything to lead me to depart from my provisional decision.
So I still think Santander UK Plc should put things right as follows:
Santander UK Plc should re-work Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account to reflect 
how they would have proceeded if theyd completed a combined application for 
the additional borrowing and the rate switch in early June 2020, in line with what 
Ive set out above and in my provisional decision.
If this means Mr and Mrs L have paid more than they needed to in their monthly 
payments, the overpayments should be refunded to them. Santander UK Plc should 
pay 8% simple interest a year from the date the payment was made to the date of 
the refund.
If Santander considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs L how much theyve taken 
off. They should also give Mr and Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Santander UK Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs L £300 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained above and in 
my provisional decision. Santander UK Plc should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman