DRN-4028078
The complaint
 The trustees of a trust which I refer to as T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
delayed processing Ts loan application. The trustees said that meant the costs of building 
works for which the funds were intended increased in the time it took the bank to approve 
the loan and therefore, Lloyds should assume responsibility for that increase.    
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
One of the trustees, who I refer to as Mr E has told us that:
In October 2018 the trustees first approached Lloyds to discuss the possibility of 
borrowing £70,000 to fund roof repairs to a commercial property (the Property) that 
was owned by T. Lloyds confirmed the repayments that would be required to service 
the loan. 
The trustees approached Lloyds again in April 2019 with a fresh proposal. This time it 
was to borrow either £25,000 or £49,000 to fund the same works. They requested 
confirmation of the repayments which were provided by Lloyds.  
Throughout the rest of 2019 discussions between Mr E and Lloyds took place. 
Suitable valuers were discussed and appointed and around November 2019, the 
Property was valued. Also, around the same time Lloyds were informed the trustees 
wanted to proceed with an application for a loan.
In January 2020 Mr E chased Lloyds about making the loan application. For much of 
2020, however, there was little progress.  
Mr E contacted the relationship manager (RM) again in May 2020, who apologised 
for the delay in progressing matters. The RM said hed been away for some time and 
since his return hed been asked to focus on more urgent Covid lending. 
In November 2020 the trustees and the RM agreed that drawing down the loan at 
that point didnt seem appropriate because the proposed repair works couldnt be 
carried out in winter weather conditions. The trustees told the RM that 
February/March 2021 would be a more sensible time to complete the loan. Around 
the same time  in December 2020  Mr E informed Lloyds that the builder the 
trustees intended using to carry out the repair work proposed repricing the work due 
to increased costs.   
The banks internal records show, however, that in December 2020 there were still certain 
formalities that needed to be completed before a formal loan application could proceed. For 
example, the RM and Mr E were in discussions about the provision by Mr E of income and 
expenditure details because it appeared the RM was concerned about whether the rent 
receipts from the Property were sufficient to service the loan T was intending to borrow. 
The RM told Mr E that:
Lloyds Bank will not lend money against property security alone regardless of the 
Low Lending value. 
The RM added: 
I will of course submit your application once I have all the information I require and a 
final decision. 
On 8 January 2021 the RM wrote to Mr E confirming hed received on 4 January 2021 the 
information hed required from him. He also told Mr E that he would progress Ts formal 
application for sanction once Mr E confirmed the final amount T wanted to borrow.
The trustees applied for a £90,000 loan on behalf of T in January 2021 which the bank 
approved. 
On 8 February 2021, Lloyds internal records noted that although the loan had been 
sanctioned two weeks ago, the bank was still waiting for a reply from the trustees whether 
they wished to go ahead with the borrowing. To date, as I understand it, the loan has not 
been accepted and it hasnt been drawn down. 
Mr E has told us that in connection with the proposed work to the Property, hed initially 
obtained a quote for £81,500 plus VAT. He said, because of Lloyds delay in agreeing the 
loan to T, the costs had increased. He has provided a copy of an e-mail from the builders 
dated 1 December 2020 confirming their revised price at £88,650 plus VAT.  
Mr E has further provided an email from the builders dated 21 March 2022 in which they 
clarified their price increase. They said their original price of £81,500 plus VAT had been 
revised due to increase in the price of materials and their availability. They said theyd held 
the initial price of £81,500 up until May 2020. 
The trustees believed therefore, that Lloyds should assume responsibility for the price 
increase because they argue, without the banks delay in processing Ts loan application 
theyd have been able to take advantage of the initial price the builders had provided. 
Lloyds acknowledged they did cause some delay in the processing of Ts application. They 
said this was partly because initially the trustees enquiries about a possible loan werent 
directed towards the correct area of the bank. In addition, Lloyds said the Covid pandemic 
impacted their operation. 
But Lloyds didnt think the delays were all of their making. They said that during the period of 
their discussions regarding the loan Mr E was sometimes abroad and so, matters had to be 
put on hold pending his return. Furthermore, according to the bank there were also delays 
caused by Mr Es reluctance to provide personal information that the bank required to help 
determine Ts eligibility for the loan. 
That being said, in acknowledgment of their part in the delays, Lloyds paid T £750 for the 
inconvenience caused by their delay. And they further agreed to waive their arrangement 
fees for the loan which amounted to £1350.Nonetheless, as the trustees complaint remained unresolved so, Mr E referred it to this 
service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Although she acknowledged that the service 
Lloyds provided to the trustees could have been better, nonetheless, in relation to their claim 
for the increase in the costs to repair the Property, she didnt think that was justified. She 
said that although the trustees received an initial quote from the builders of £81,500 + VAT 
for the repair work and that this expired on 20 May 2020, she saw no evidence that a loan 
equivalent to that figure had ever been discussed with Lloyds prior to this date. She said 
from the evidence shed seen the loan figures that had been discussed with Lloyds to that 
point were in April 2019 and these were for £25,000 and £49,000. 
The investigator also observed that to date the loan had not been drawn down due to 
ongoing issues the trustees have raised regarding the wording of Lloyds legal charge. 
Against that background she wasnt persuaded that the loan could have been drawn down 
prior to the builders decision to increase their price from £81,500 plus VAT to £88,650 plus 
VAT.
That being said, she further noted that Lloyds had already apologised for their level of 
service and paid T £750 in compensation. She believed the amount was fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of the case. 
The trustees didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. On their behalf, Mr E said, in 
summary, the fact that the trustees havent concluded the loan due to matters concerning 
the banks legal charge is irrelevant to the substance of their complaint. He said the trustees 
concerns about the legal charge occurred only after the trustees had already raised their 
complaint about delays in the initial application process. Furthermore, Mr E believed the 
investigator mis-stated the amount the trustees intended borrowing from Lloyds. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Before coming to the substance of my decision Ill make a couple brief comments. Firstly, the 
trustees loan discussions began in 2018 and although the loan has since been approved it 
hasnt yet been drawn down. Given how lengthy this process has been, no doubt this must 
be frustrating for the trustees. 
Secondly, I note Mr Es concern that the investigator seems to have misunderstood the loan 
amount T borrowed from Lloyds. I should therefore make it clear that Im aware, that the 
trustees eventually applied for a £90,000 loan rather than the lower sums that were being 
discussed with the bank in April 2019. But it seems to me that the investigator has correctly 
observed that there seemed no clear evidence that prior to May 2020 when the £81,500 
quote from the builders was set to expire, discussions had been taking place between the 
trustees and Lloyds about a loan, equivalent to the quotation figures the builders had given 
the trustees. I come now to the substance of my decision. I thank Mr E for the helpful timeline he 
prepared charting the events from October 2018 to February 2021 - the month after the loan 
had been approved. 
When considering the banks alleged delay therefore, and its alleged impact on T, it is on 
that 27-month period that Ive focused. In other words, Ive concentrated on the period from 
when the trustees first approached Lloyds in October 2018 to discuss Ts borrowing, to 
January 2021 when the trustees did eventually formally apply for the loan and received 
Lloyds approval. 
Im aware there have been further issues between the trustees and the bank beyond the 
period Im considering  including further allegations of yet more delay by Lloyds and its 
impact in terms of further cost increases. But those matters have been raised separately and 
are the subject of a separate complaint at this service. I have not addressed those issues as 
part of this final decision.  
Delay between October 2018 to January 2021 
According to Lloyds, initial discussions in 2018 with the trustees about the loan were more 
exploratory and werent immediately pursued. Thats borne out by the both the banks and 
broadly, Mr Es own timeline evidence which show that after October 2018 nothing 
meaningful happened until April 2019.  At that point the trustees reverted to Lloyds to 
discuss loan figures of £25,000 and £49,000. 
After the trustees reverted to Lloyds in April 2019, it does appear that activities did gather 
some momentum during which suitable valuers were discussed and appointed in November 
2019. Im satisfied that between October 2018 and throughout much of 2019 there were no 
significant delays for which Lloyds were responsible. 
To the extent there were significant delays, however, they seemed primarily to have 
occurred throughout 2020. In particular, between January and May 2020 it doesnt appear 
there had been any meaningful progress in the discussions between the trustees and Lloyds 
about Ts application. That is perhaps unsurprising because as Mr E explained, the RM had 
told him in May 2020 when discussions resumed, that as a consequence of the Covid 
pandemic he had been asked to focus on other activities such Covid lending. Indeed, Im 
also aware that the pandemic restrictions were at their most severe for a substantial part of 
that period.  
But Mr Es timeline suggests that in the six months from May to November 2020, there were 
further gaps in progress. 
In fairness, Lloyds have acknowledged there were such delays for which they took 
responsibility. And I see, particularly between May and November 2020 that Mr E chased the 
bank a number of times to determine whether things were progressing as they should.  Im 
satisfied this caused the trustees material inconvenience. 
But as noted above, Lloyds have paid T £750 in compensation as well as agreeing to waive 
the arrangement fees for the loan. Looking at the events overall, and I think it only fair to also 
take account of the impact of the pandemic on the banks operation, Im satisfied, taken 
together, that the £750 compensation the bank has paid to T as well as its offer to waive the 
arrangement fees for the loan, are both a fair and proportionate recognition of the 
inconvenience for which the bank was responsible. 
Next, Ive thought about whether Lloyds, ought to do more to recognise, as the trustees 
believe, that the banks delay also played a part in the increased costs for the repair work needed to the Property. In other words that Lloyds ought to cover the increase over and 
above the £81,500 the trustees were quoted initially for the repairs. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for trustees to have obtained an indication of the likely cost 
of the works required to the Property so that theyd have a more informed idea the level of 
borrowing required to fund it. But to have been able to proceed with the repairs to the 
Property based on the initial quote of £81,500 plus VAT, the trustees would have needed not 
only to have applied for, but also had the loan approved before the date the quote expired in 
May 2020. 
In an email to trustees dated 21 March 2022 which further explained the reasons behind the 
price increase, the builders told the trustees that their original quote was only held until May 
2020. That is the only evidence Ive seen that makes it clear the quote was time limited. 
Ive seen no clear evidence throughout 2020 that the trustees knew that to be the position let 
alone Lloyds. Indeed, according to Mr E, he told Lloyds about the cost increase in December 
2020 after confirmation from the builder that, that would be the case. Even then there 
doesnt appear to have been any mention the increase was avoidable had the loan been 
completed sooner. Furthermore, in November 2020 according to Mr Es timeline, 
conversations were taking place between the trustees and the bank about postponing 
matters until February/March 2021 when weather conditions would be more favourable. 
So, I dont think Lloyds knew or could reasonably have been aware the quote provided to the 
trustees would expire in May 2020 and therefore if completion of the loan didnt happen by 
then, itd face the prospect of having to assume responsibility for any price increase. 
Im also aware of the unprecedented effects of the Covid pandemic in 2020. Many of which 
would have been unforeseen. Not least its impact on the banks operations as Lloyds have 
alluded to but also, its impact on supply chains and the effect this had on the cost of 
materials. 
After considering all of these things carefully, I am not persuaded that as well as 
compensating T for the inconvenience caused by the bank it would be fair and reasonable to 
also require Lloyds to cover the increase in the cost of the repairs to the Property. So, I do 
not therefore make that recommendation.
Mr E has also explained the delay in drawing down the loan since 2021 has no bearing on 
this complaint which is about Lloyds delay in the period Ive been considering. In other 
words, that concerns about the wording of the banks legal charge and the events that have 
flowed from that arose after the trustees complaint to the bank regarding its earlier delay. 
But that being said, the protracted nature of those subsequent issues suggests that theyd 
have been of concern to trustees in any event even if the loan had been finalised earlier. In 
all likelihood therefore, thered have been a similar delay in drawing down the loan which in 
turn would have impacted the trustees ability to fund the repairs to the Property.   
My final decision
 I think the offers made by Lloyds Bank Plc are fair and reasonable. Given the above, Im 
satisfied the £750 compensation already paid goes some way to compensate T for the 
inconvenience caused. In addition, if Lloyds Bank Plc hasnt already done so, I recommend 
they should also waive the £1350 arrangement fees for the loan, in full and final settlement 
of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman