DRN-4293191
The complaint
Mr A complains that FIL Life Insurance Limited (Fidelity) only report his unit linked pension 
holdings to two decimal places on their website. He doesnt feel thats sufficient enough to 
allow him to keep proper accounting records of the purchases they make for him.
Mr A would now like Fidelity to change their website, so it reports his unit linked holdings to 
six decimal places or, alter their approach to rounding.
What happened
Mr A currently holds a Fidelity stakeholder pension which is used to accept contributions 
from his employer. The plan is invested in two of Fidelitys unit linked funds. Each month, Mr 
A likes to reconcile the purchases Fidelity have made into his pension into a separate 
spreadsheet so he can keep track of his holdings.
However, Fidelitys PlanViewer site only reports his holdings to two decimal places which 
over time, Mr A says will result in discrepancies between his external spreadsheet (which he 
prefers to record purchases to six decimal places on) and the Fidelity PlanViewer site.
So, Mr A decided to formally complain to Fidelity. In summary, he explained that over a 
prolonged period of time, if Fidelity failed to report unit holdings to six decimal places, it 
would result in his personal planning becoming inaccurate.
After reviewing Mr As complaint, Fidelity concluded they were satisfied that their current 
approach was fair. They also said, in summary, the balances showing in Mr As online 
PlanViewer account were accurate and as such, would allow him to make informed 
decisions on his pension. 
Mr A was unhappy with Fidelitys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said he didnt think it was reasonable that Fidelity wouldnt report his pension 
holdings to six decimal places online. He felt that disadvantaged him as over time, it would 
distort his own personal records of what he held.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Fidelitys 
approach was reasonable. Mr A, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings and 
provided a spreadsheet showing the impact of reporting to six decimal places compared to 
two and the differences that could therefore result over time.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view. So, Mr A then asked the 
Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about this issue and Ive carefully considered both sets of 
submissions. However, Im in agreement with the view provided by our Investigator and 
largely for the same reasons and as such Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Whilst Ive not 
got a great deal more to add over whats already been said by our Investigator, Ill explain 
why below.
I can well appreciate Mr As desire to plan in detail for his retirement and such an approach 
has long been encouraged by successive governments. As part of that planning, Mr A 
maintains a detailed spreadsheet showing the purchases that have been made into his 
pension. As his pension invests in unit linked funds, that typically means that when 
purchases are made, fractional parts of a unit are purchased and added to his plan. Fidelity 
report those fractional purchases to two decimal places, but Mr A wants them to be reported 
to six on their website. Mr A says that by only reporting them to two decimal places, over 
time, his spreadsheet wont reconcile to Fidelitys PlanViewer.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As arguments and looked closely at the spreadsheets both 
he and Fidelity supplied to support their views. Whilst Ive not checked the accuracy of any 
of the data, Mr As spreadsheet does show that over a period of time, a very small difference 
appears between the total units held on Fidelitys PlanViewer and his spreadsheet because 
of their respective approach to rounding. However, the difference is nominal and looking at 
Fidelitys spreadsheet, Ive seen nothing to persuade me their current approach is unfair. 
Importantly, Fidelity have explained that whilst their PlanViewer system only shows the unit 
holdings to two decimal places, their back-office systems report to six places, so Mr As 
actual holdings will always be accurate, regardless of any small rounding issues that Mr A 
feels that there might be on their portal. Thats because, Fidelity say, each time a 
subsequent purchase is made, their back-office system works to six decimal places and will 
correctly round the existing two decimal balance.
When providers design their online portals, they have to take into account a number of 
factors. This ranges from (but is not limited to) the volume of information provided and how it 
should be presented. Whilst some consumers, such as Mr A, may find having additional 
information useful, businesses have to cater for the majority. Its not the role of this service to 
tell Fidelity how they should set out the information it provides to its consumers. Our main 
consideration in such circumstances is ensuring the information provided is clear, fair and 
not misleading. And, having looked at Fidelitys approach, Ive not been persuaded their 
approach to rounding is unfair. 
Whilst Mr A has provided an alternate approach to rounding that hed like Fidelity to adopt, 
thats a commercial decision for Fidelity and not within the remit of this service to instruct 
them to follow. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint and as such, I wont be instructing FIL Life Insurance 
Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 Simon Fox
Ombudsman