DRN-2571229
The complaint
Mr G complains about an address linked on his EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) credit file that 
he has never lived at. 
What happened
In early 2020 Mr G raised a dispute with Equifax about a mobile phone entry that he found 
on this credit file. The mobile phone provider agreed its entry should be removed from 
Mr Gs credit file so it was deleted. But, Mr G later found that the address it was registered at 
was still linked on his credit file and complained to Equifax. 
Equifax says it looked into removing the linked address from Mr Gs credit file but was 
unable to do so. Equifax said that someone else registered at Mr Gs address had links to 
the disputed address. Mr G has confirmed that the linked address is associated with a 
member of his household but has explained he was never a resident. 
Equifax went on to add a note to Mr Gs credit file that advised the linked address isnt 
connected with him. Mr G complained that the notice Equifax applied to his credit file made it 
look as it was added by him. Equifax responded to Mr Gs complaint and offered him £150 to 
apologise for the trouble and upset caused. Equifax also amended the note to show it had 
added it. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Equifax went 
on to explain that Mr G was reported as being on the electoral roll at the linked address 
between 2007 and 2015 which had caused a link on his credit file. Equifax also said other 
residents at his address had connections to the linked address. As a result, the connection 
between Mr G and the linked address couldnt be removed. 
Our investigator thought Equifax had dealt with the complaint fairly. They said Mr G could 
contact the council in question to raise a dispute concerning why he appeared on the 
electoral roll if the information reported is wrong. The investigator thought Equifaxs decision 
to add a notice to Mr Gs credit file was reasonable. 
The investigator said Equifaxs decision to amend the notice it reported on Mr Gs credit file 
and pay him £150 was fair. Mr G asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has confirmed the linked address in question has a family association but that he was 
never resident there. Mr G has told us he has never been registered on the electoral roll at 
the linked address. And I can see Mr G is also registered on the electoral roll at his 
confirmed address. But I have to balance that against evidence that Equifax has provided. 
Equifax has sent us systems information that shows Mr G was recorded as being registered 
on the electoral roll at the disputed address between 2007 and 2015. Equifaxs credit search 
shows Mr G was also registered on the electoral roll at his reported address for much of the 
period in question, information Mr G doesnt dispute. 
Im satisfied Equifax has received electoral roll information linking him to both addresses. I 
think Equifaxs request that Mr G takes the entry up with the council reporting it is a 
reasonable approach. The council is responsible for reporting electoral roll information about 
Mr G and the only party that can amend errors made. 
Equifax has told us that it cant dispute this information in the way it would a disputed credit 
agreement. As a result, it took the step of adding a message explaining the situation to his 
credit file. After Mr G complained, Equifax took steps to amend the message to show it was 
the author. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr G has raised concerns that the note may cause problems obtaining credit in the future or 
that it could have a negative impact on him. But given the nature of the dispute Mr G has 
raised, I think the message is a fair way to reflect the situation and his concerns. 
Equifax has offered Mr G £150 to apologise for the way it applied the message to his credit 
file and the trouble and upset caused. Having considered everything both Mr G and Equifax 
have provided, Im satisfied thats reasonable in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied 
Equifax has dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. If Mr 
G hasnt received the £150 and wishes to accept, he is welcome to contact our investigator 
to arrange settlement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Equifax has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman