DRN-2258757
The complaint
Mr P complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) reducing his credit limit. 
What happened
Mr P said that upon receiving the information about the CCJ, Lloyds decreased his credit 
limit from £6400 to £2200. Mr P doesnt feel like he has been treated fairly here and said that 
Lloyds havent taken his wider circumstances into account. When Mr P wanted to review the 
specific information that led to the credit limit decrease, he was told by Lloyds that this 
wasnt possible. Mr P felt that he should be entitled to review this information and said that 
Lloyds have a flawed process. Mr P wants his original credit limit restored. 
Lloyds reviewed the details of this complaint and didnt uphold it. Lloyds have said that they 
review accounts on a regular basis to ensure they are offering the right level of credit to its 
customers. And therefore, they didnt feel like they made an error here by reducing the credit 
limit. Lloyds have said that they did offer to review the credit limit further, but Mr P declined 
this. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
that the action taken by Lloyds in order to reduce the credit limit was fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the view and said that Lloyds have treated him like a customer who 
has a judgement debt registered against him. The investigator replied to this and said that 
the steps taken by Lloyds were reasonable because at that point a CCJ was registered 
against him. Mr P didnt agree with the response and maintains that their process is flawed. 
So, this has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive understood the surrounding circumstances that led to the CCJ being registered against 
Mr P. I can appreciate that this wouldve been an extremely distressing period for Mr P. And 
I understand that Mr P had settled the debt which resulted in the CCJ being removed. Even 
so, I dont think Lloyds have treated Mr P unfairly by reducing his credit card limit. 
I say this because the evidence that Lloyds have supplied to me, suggests that their actions 
were based around the information theyd received from a credit reference agency which 
said that a CCJ had been registered against Mr P. In these circumstances, Lloyds didnt 
think that the existing credit limit was part of their risk appetite. And so, they reduced the 
credit limit in line with their terms and conditions. Having reviewed the terms and conditions, 
I can see that Lloyds can reduce a credit limit if they believe that a customer may not be able 
to repay what they owe. And as a CCJ indicates that a customer may have financial 
difficulties, I cant say that Lloyds have acted unfairly here.  
Nevertheless, Ive looked carefully at how this was communicated to Mr P. Ive seen a copy 
of the letter that Lloyds sent to him which explains their intention to reduce the credit limit. 
Within the letter, Lloyds offered Mr P the option to discuss any matter with them and the 
option to seek independent advice if he wished to do so. I am persuaded that Lloyds notified 
Mr P in line with the expectations that have been set by the Lending Standards Boards 
Standards of Lending Practice (LSBS). The LSBS expects firms to consider the impact on 
someones finances, encourage the person to contact the firm and offer free, impartial 
advice. I can see that Lloyds have done this.  
I can see that Lloyds offered Mr P a credit limit review once they were made aware of the 
wider circumstances. Im aware that Mr P has declined the review and says that the original 
credit limit should be immediately restored. I understand his strength of feeling but Im 
satisfied that Lloyds have acted fairly by offering a credit review. And I dont think Lloyds 
have breached the Treating Customers Fairly principles in this instance. 
I understand that Mr P made an informal request to review the data that Lloyds saw when 
deciding to reduce the credit limit which was declined by Lloyds. Even if this information was 
shared, Im not sure what difference this wouldve made. I say this because Lloyds decide 
who they lend to and given that a CCJ was registered at that time, their actions are fair. If Mr 
P wants to review the data that Lloyds have for him, he can make a formal data subject 
access request with them. Alternatively, he can raise any data concerns with the Information 
Commission Officer (ICO). 
I understand that Mr P is unhappy with Lloyds processes. Mr P accepts that this service 
doesnt regulate Lloyds but considers individual disputes. Having done that Im satisfied that 
Mr P has been treated fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. I know 
Mr P will be disappointed with the outcome, but there is no basis for me to require Lloyds to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman