DRN-2305354
The complaint
Mr N and Ms Z complain that certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds (the underwriter) 
has acted unfairly by asking their solicitor to agree to its terms of business before covering 
their legal expenses.
Society of Lloyds uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance policy on 
its behalf, so any reference to the underwriter within this decision should be read as 
including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr N and Ms Z hold a joint landlords legal expenses policy with Society of Lloyds. For ease 
of reference, I will refer only to Mr N throughout this decision as the primary complainant. 
Mr N submitted a claim under the policy in January 2017 to pursue a default in rent payment 
and property damage caused by a tenant. Cover was withdrawn in June 2018, however, as it 
was considered that the case did not have the required prospects of success. But following 
an independent legal challenge submitted by Mr N, the underwriter agreed to continue 
funding the case.
Mr N raised a complaint in June 2019 about the way his claim was being handled. The 
underwriter issued its final response on 17 June 2019 upholding the complaint. It offered 
£250 compensation for the delays it had caused, and also said he could choose his own 
solicitor to proceed with the legal claim. Mr N subsequently provided the details of the 
solicitors he wanted to represent him (whom Ill refer to as Firm M).
Mr N raised a further complaint in August 2019 as he was unhappy that the underwriter had 
asked Firm M to sign its terms of business as a condition of covering his legal costs. He said 
there was no specific term in the policy that states his solicitor would need to agree any 
terms of business, meaning Firm M are under no obligation to sign it. As a result, he says 
the underwriter should allow him to instruct Firm M  paying their normal hourly rate  
without the need for any terms of business being signed. Mr N proposed that he pay the 
solicitors invoices himself and would then seek reimbursement from the underwriter.
Society of Lloyds issued its final response to Mr Ns complaint in October 2019. It 
acknowledged that there wasnt a specific term confirming that the policyholders chosen 
solicitor would be required to sign its terms of business, but said that its reasonable to 
expect that a written agreement would exist between the two parties to govern 
costs/expectations etc. The underwriter said that the policy wording also referenced the 
solicitor being appointed by it, which further points to the requirement of terms being agreed 
between it and the solicitor. However, it acknowledged that there was no explicit restriction 
on the hourly rate it would pay the solicitor (other than the policy stating it had to be 
reasonable and proportionate) so the underwriter agreed to pay Firm Ms rate (consisting of 
one fee earner being paid at £120 per hour, who would be conducting the majority of the 
work, and another more senior fee earner at £220 per hour, so long as their input was 
limited). It also offered £200 compensation for the delay in agreeing to Firm Ms rates. 
Mr N remained unhappy, however, as the underwriters agreement to fund his legal costs 
was still predicated on Firm M signing its terms of business.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint as she was satisfied it was reasonable for 
Society of Lloyds to require Firm M to sign its terms of business before appointing them as 
his solicitor. Mr N disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Havign done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
There have been several final responses issued in relation to Mr Ns complaint, with the first 
being issued on 17 June 2019. This concerned the delays and lack of progress being made 
on his claim, which resulted in compensation being paid and Mr N being allowed to choose 
his own solicitor. I understand this is no longer in dispute, however, so I shall not be 
commenting on any of the issues addressed in the final response of June 2019, which I also 
note would be time barred in any event as it was not referred to this service within six 
months of it being issued (and there are seemingly no exceptional circumstances behind the 
late referral).
Mr N has also since raised a further complaint about the underwriter unreasonably 
withholding cover (addressed by the underwriter in its final response of 8 September 2020), 
which has been considered as a separate complaint and so will not be addressed within this 
decision either. I will therefore only be considering the matter of whether Society of Lloyds 
has acted reasonably in asking Mr Ns solicitor to sign its terms of business when there is no 
seemingly no explicit term to this effect within the policy terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions set out:
 Following an insured event the insurer will pay your legal costs and expenses.
Legal costs and expenses are defined by the policy as 
Reasonable legal costs, fees and disbursements reasonably and proportionately 
charged by the appointed advisor on the standard basis and agreed in advance by 
us. The term standard basis can be found wirthin the Courts Civil Procedure Rules 
Part 44.
The term appointed advisor is also further defined by the policy as the solicitor or other 
advisor appointed by us to act on your behalf. 
Mr N says there is no explicit term within the policy document that sets out any requirement 
for his chosen solicitor to have to agree terms of business with the insurer. He says Firm M 
will not sign the terms of business as they are entering into a contract with Mr N to provide 
him with legal services, not the insurer. 
I appreciate there is no explicit term stating that solicitors will be required to agree to the 
underwriters terms of business. But the terms do state that the solicitor has to be appointed 
by the underwriter. And its reasonable to expect that any such appointment would be 
predicated on both parties agreeing terms which set out their respective obligations and 
which are governed by a written contract. I understand its common practice for legal 
expenses insurers and solicitors to agree terms of business before any appointment is made as the solicitor is not party to the insurance contract between the insurer and policyholder, 
and so is not bound by any of the policy terms within it. And above all, terms of business are 
necessary for both parties to agree the rate at which the solicitor will be paid, as well as for 
the insurer to ensure that the claim will be correctly managed and progressed in the 
policyholders interests and in line with what they are entitled to under the insurance 
contract. 
If no terms were agreed in advance between the insurer and solicitor, there would be no 
contractual obligation on either party to fulfil its side of the bargain (i.e. for the solicitors to 
render legal services, or for the insurer to pay for such services). So its necessary for the 
sake of all involved (including Mr N as the policyholder) that each party is aware, and has 
agreed to fulfil, its relevant obligations to the other, so that the interests of each party can be 
preserved.
As Ive set out previously, there is reference made in the policy to the insurer appointing the 
advisor (i.e. on agreed terms) and paying legal expenses on the standard basisagreed in 
advance by us [my emphasis added]. Together, I consider that this can reasonably be 
construed as meaning that terms (such as the rate of pay for the appointed advisor) would 
need to be agreed between these two parties in advance. 
Its important to consider the terms and conditions of the contract in their entire context, to 
which end it is helpful to consider the common sense principles of contractual interpretation 
set out by Lord Hoffmann in the House of Lords case of Investor Compensation Scheme 
Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others [1997] UKHL 28:
The "rule" that words should be given their "natural and ordinary meaning" reflects 
the common-sense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made 
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would 
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong 
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an 
intention which they plainly could not have had. Lord Diplock made this point more 
vigorously when he said in The Antaios Compania Neviera S.A. v. Salen Rederierna 
A.B. 19851 A.C. 191 , 201: 
" if detailed semantic and syntactical analysis of words in a commercial 
contract is going to lead to a conclusion that flouts business commonsense, it 
must be made to yield to business commonsense."
Having considered the policy document holistically  it seems to me the correct interpretation 
that the reasonable commercial policyholder would understand (and I think its fair to say that 
a landlord would be considered a commercial customer in these circumstances, rather than 
an ordinary consumer) is that an advisor/solicitor would only be appointed by the insurer 
(and their legal fees paid) upon both parties agreeing what the terms of that appointment 
should be. It does not mean the insurer is obliged to appoint any solicitor at any cost, without 
having any input or oversight into the management of the legal claim. 
This is, in my opinion, the interpretation that yields to business common sense  by which I 
mean the terms and conditions on which any prudent insurer is likely to do business with a 
commercial policyholder. And this service would never knowingly interpret an insurance 
policy in a way that would flout business common sense or would attribute to the parties an 
intention which they could not reasonably have had. Whilst I am only required to take 
account of the relevant law (rather than be bound by it), I wouldnt lightly ignore such weighty 
authority from the (then) highest court; and in any event, I consider the House of Lords 
approach to be fair and reasonable, based as it is on common sense, the factual 
background, and the reasonable expectations of contracting parties  even where the contract is not individually negotiated. 
Mr N submits that the Court of Appeals judgment in Brown-Quinn & Anor V Equity Syndicate 
Management Ltd & Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633 supports his position that, when no 
reference is made to standard terms of appointment in an insurance policy, then such a 
requirement is not part of the contract and cannot be later be relied upon by the insurer. 
However, the Brown-Quinn case was primarily concerned with the insurer seeking to apply a 
restriction that was set out in its terms of business (i.e. limiting the indemnity recoverable 
under the policy by capping the hourly rate at which they would pay the solicitor). But in 
Mr Ns case, Ive not been made aware of any restrictive term in particular of the 
underwriters terms of business that the solicitor objects to. Instead, it seems that Firm M are 
not prepared to agree any terms with the underwriter as they want their dealings/contract to 
be solely with Mr N (such that he pays their fees and later seeks reimbursement from the 
insurer). The Brown-Quinn judgment was not concerned with whether the insurer could 
require the solicitor to agree to terms of business in general where no particular term of 
business was in dispute, so I do not consider this case to be relevant to the matters under 
consideration in Mr Ns complaint.  
In any event, Ive already set out why I consider the policy wording is sufficient to allow the 
insurer to require Firm M to sign its terms of appointment before they can properly be 
appointed by the underwriter. So in the circumstances, I do not consider that Society of 
Lloyds has acted unreasonably, and I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman