DRN-4508686
The complaint
Mr S complains Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim he made on his landlord 
insurance policy for subsidence damage.
Mr S has been represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ive addressed the 
decision to Mr S. And any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents. 
What happened
In early April 2022, Mr S took out a policy with Great Lakes. Around three weeks later he 
made a claim on his buildings insurance policy for damage caused by subsidence. He 
thought there was an issue with a drain, which had led to subsidence damage at the rear of 
the property. 
Great Lakes assessed the claim but declined it. They didnt think the damage was new 
subsidence damage. So it declined the claim. 
It initially thought Mr S had failed to disclose historical subsidence damage when he took out 
the policy. But it hasnt sought to avoid Mr S insurance. Mr S disputed the outcome of the 
claim, so Great Lakes sent a further surveyor to assess the damage. On the basis of that 
report, it didnt agree to change its position. It said the policy had only been active for 19 
days before the claim was brought, so any damage happened before the policy started, so 
was excluded under the policy.
Mr S complained, he said a neighbour had the same issue and his claim had been paid, and 
that hed had the property since 2011 and Great Lakes hadnt shown the damage happened 
before this time. Great Lakes didnt revise its position, so Mr S brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He said 
whilst Mr S had provided comments from his own experts, the only people whod gone out to 
visit and assess the property were appointed by Great Lakes. So he was persuaded that the 
evidence showed the building wasnt suffering from new subsidence damage.
Mr S didnt accept that, he asked for copies of the evidence relied on by the business, such 
as the images and bore hole data. He said hed asked Great Lakes to provide this 
previously, but it hadnt done so. 
He also said that since repairs to drains had been carried out by the water company, the 
movement appears to have stopped. He said this supports it was the drains that caused 
subsidence to the property and so it should be covered on his insurance. He said it is for the 
insurer, not the policyholder, to prove that all the subsidence happened prior to 2011, when 
he bought the property. He also asked for fees charged by his professional representative 
during the claim. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an informal service I havent responded to every point or piece of evidence provided by 
Mr S or Great Lakes. But Id like to reassure both parties that I have read everything 
provided.
Mr S policy does cover his property for damage caused by subsidence. But it says it will not 
pay for damage which commenced prior to the effective date [as stated in your schedule]. 
The date in the schedule is 7 April 2022. So I consider there are two things to review; is 
there evidence of subsidence damage, and, if so, did it commence before the policy started. 
Whilst it is for an insured  so in this case Mr S  to show they have a valid claim under the 
policy, in cases where subsidence may be a cause, we would expect an insurer to assist in 
establishing if subsidence has been the cause of damage. Great Lakes has carried out two 
reports on the property. 
The findings of the first report from May 2022 were that there was evidence of a 
longstanding issue with the drains that needed to be addressed. And that the property was 
suffering from lateral movement which should be inspected by a structural engineer. But 
regarding the damage, it concluded we do not believe these are as a result of current 
subsidence. 
The second report from July 2022 reported damage in the property, and noted, in line with 
the first report, significant outward movement of the property. And it noted there was 
evidence that the rear of the property had suffered historic subsidence damage due to the 
slope noted on the cellar floor. But ultimately said we are of the view that there is no 
evidence of active subsidence damage that has occurred within the period of the policy 
cover.
So based on those reports, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unreasonably in declining a 
claim for subsidence damage. 
Mr S has asked Great Lakes to provide proof that the drains havent caused some 
foundation movement. But I dont consider it needs to. The two reports conclude there isnt 
any evidence of recent subsidence damage, and provide their rationale for reaching those 
conclusions.  The drains were noted as a long-standing issue in the first report. But I dont 
consider it is for Great Lakes to disprove that the drains are an issue when it has two reports 
which have concluded there is no evidence of recent subsidence damage.
As far as Im aware, Mr S hasnt provided any of his own reports from experts which 
demonstrate that the drains have caused subsidence damage. I understand his 
representative in bringing the complaint is a surveyor, but I only have their comments on 
Great Lakes reports; theyve confirmed they havent carried out a defect report on this 
property. So I have no report from Mr S or anyone appointed by him which contradicts the 
findings of Great Lakes reports. 
Mr S has provided a drainage report he had caried out, this shows an issue was found 
where the house drain and the main drain connected in the back street behind the property. 
Mr S has said the same issue was found to his neighbours property, and that neighbour has 
had their subsidence claim accepted. However, the report makes no comment on any 
foundation movement. And I cant consider the comments about the neighbours property 
because I have to assess this case on the evidence presented on Mr S property. So on 
balance Im more persuaded by the evidence from Great Lakes that there is no insured 
damage. 
Mr S has also asked Great Lakes to provide evidence to show the date on which historic 
movement commenced. Again I dont think this is necessary for it to fairly decline the claim. 
The property had been insured with Great Lakes for around three weeks when the claim was 
made. And the policy sets out clearly that any subsidence damage which commenced before this date is excluded. So Great Lakes doesnt need to pinpoint an exact date that any 
historic damage happened, and it doesnt need to show the damage happened before 
2011. It only needs to show that damage hasnt commenced whilst the policy was in force 
[from 2022]. Based on the above reports I consider it has done this.
There is a domestic subsidence agreement in place for policyholders. Mr S has said Great 
Lakes should have collaborated with previous insurers to come to some form of arrangement 
under this agreement. Under this agreement, where a claim was made eight weeks or less 
after the start date of the current policy, the previous insurer will deal with the claim. This is 
because it is considered more likely that the movement that caused the damage claimed for 
started before the policy did. So even if I agreed there was evidence of new subsidence 
damage  which I dont based on the evidence I have  Great Lakes still wouldnt have to 
cover the damage under this agreement.
Its also important to note that this agreement covers domestic properties only, i.e. a 
policyholders home. But this isnt the case here. Mr S rents this property out. Sometimes 
this service would still consider it fair and reasonable to apply the domestic agreement even 
to non-domestic properties. But I dont need to make a finding on whether that would apply 
here or not, because this complaint is being brought to the current insurer, not the previous 
one. And crucially, the evidence doesnt support there is current subsidence damage in any 
event. 
So for the reasons given above, I consider Great Lakes has acted fairly in not accepting the 
claim. 
Mr S has asked for his professional representatives fees to be paid by Great Lakes. I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to cover these fees. We 
sometimes consider that a business should pay for reports if those reports show that insured 
damage has been suffered in a property. But bringing a claim to an insurer, and a complaint 
to this service, can be done for free. And as I consider Great Lakes claim decline to be fair 
based on the evidence it had, it follows that I think it unfair it should have to pay for any fees 
Mr S incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman