DRN-3975335
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited has stopped providing online access to his 
pension and this service has not yet been restored.
What happened
Mr S has a pension with Scottish Widows.
On 13 August 2022, Scottish Widows removed access for pension customers to its online 
client services platform, meaning Mr S could no longer access his pension through that 
service. 
Mr S complained to Scottish Widows on 1 September 2022 about this as he was unhappy at 
being unable to access or make changes to his pension online.
Scottish Widows issued a final response to Mr S complaint on 12 September 2022. It said it 
had taken a business decision to upgrade its systems and how customers could access their 
accounts. As part of that, access to its online systems had to be temporarily suspended but it 
hoped to have this restored in October 2022. It said though Mr S could still access his 
pension through other channels. It explained Mr S could obtain information about his 
pension and instruct changes over the phone, via email and in writing, and confirmed the 
relevant contact details. It also said full information about his policy was available through its 
mobile phone app, information summaries were available through its website and changes 
could be instructed through the internet banking service provided by the group which 
Scottish Widows was a part of. Scottish Widows acknowledged though that Mr S had likely 
been caused inconvenience and offered him £50 to address this.
Mr S asked our service to consider his complaint. He said there were significant waiting 
times when trying to contact Scottish Widows by phone and he didnt think it was reasonable 
that online access had been removed as he relied on this to monitor and manage his 
account. He said he felt Scottish Widows should be fined and reprimanded.
I understand that the resumption of online access took longer than Scottish Widows initially 
planned and that it was expected that the suspension would continue until at least March 
2023.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He explained that our service is not a 
regulator so couldnt penalise Scottish Widows. And making improvements to its systems 
was a matter of Scottish Widows commercial judgement. Scottish Widows had provided 
other means by which Mr S could access his pension, which the Investigator thought was 
fair. He acknowledged though the extended suspension of online services was likely to have 
caused further inconvenience, so recommended that Scottish Widows increase its offer of 
compensation for this to £300.
Scottish Widows accepted the Investigators recommendation.
Mr S did not accept our Investigators findings and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided an example of a reprimand issued by an overseas financial services 
regulator to a business where there was an unexpected interruption of service. And says he 
is surprised no action has been taken against Scottish Widows. As our Investigator 
explained though, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator and it is not our role 
to fine, punish or reprimand a financial business. Nor can we require a business to change is 
processes or the services it provides. Our role is to consider individual complaints, as an 
informal alternative to a court, and our decisions are based on what we consider to be fair 
and reasonable.
Scottish Widows took the commercial decision to upgrade its systems. I dont think this was 
unreasonable but ultimately it is a decision it was entitled to take and not something I can 
interfere with. 
As part of that upgrade there was a planned suspension of some services  specifically the 
use of its online client services platform to manage pensions. Which affected Mr S. But I 
cant see that it was a condition of Mr S account that access to this platform was guaranteed 
at all times. And Scottish Widows has provided evidence from its terms and conditions that it 
retained the option to restrict access to services, including its online ones, if it needed to. 
This also wasnt the only channel by which the account could be operated. So, Scottish 
Widows did not prevent the operation of Mr S pension.
The extract from the terms and conditions which Scottish Widows has provided indicates, 
where it restricts access to service, it can do so without notice. Here though, Scottish 
Widows has said that it sent an email warning to affected customers about the loss of 
access to the client services platform in the weeks prior to the interruption of service. And its 
provided evidence of what that warning said  including setting out the other means of 
access still available to customers. In the circumstances I think that action was fair.
It isnt clear if Mr S received that warning. And if he didnt, I can understand why it wouldve 
come as a surprise and a disappointment to find that a service he had previously used was 
no longer available. When Mr S complained though, Scottish Widows again made him aware 
of the other methods by which he could access and amend his account. So, in my view, 
fairly informed him of how he could still operate it.
I understand Mr S preference is to use the client services platform, as he has previously. 
And hes explained, because he lives overseas, operating his pension via phone is not 
convenient for him. But Scottish Widows has said that Mr S has given instructions relating to 
his pension over the phone previously, before the suspension of access to the client services 
online platform took place. And this wasnt the only method of contact or account operation 
still available to Mr S. So, overall, I think Scottish Widows has provided reasonable 
alternatives.
I dont doubt though, based on his individual circumstances, not being able to use the online 
platform has been inconvenient for Mr S. Which Scottish Widows acknowledged in its final 
response. And that this was likely to be particularly upsetting if the warning about this 
interruption of service was not received in advance. I also understand that hes likely to have 
been caused upset and further inconvenience as a result of the delays in the upgrades being 
completed, and access to this service being restored. And while I dont think the time these upgrades have ultimately taken means that Sottish Widows acted unfairly in removing online 
access, I do think its fair that it does something to address the further inconvenience caused 
to Mr S. Taking everything into account though, I think the recommendation our Investigator 
made that it pay £300 to address the upset caused, which Scottish Widows accepted, is a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve things.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right, I require Scottish Widows Limited to pay Mr S £300 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman