DRN-4120063
The complaint
Miss W and Mr W complain that TSB Bank plc closed their joint account. Miss W wasnt 
informed of the closure. Mr Ws details were registered with CIFAS the UKs fraud alert 
system. Mr W wants the marker removed, the account reinstated and compensation.
Mr W is representing Miss W.
What happened
Miss W and Mr W had a joint account with TSB.
TSB carried out a review of their account. They asked Mr B to provide information showing 
proof of entitlement to funds that had been received into the account on 5 September 2022. 
The funds had been reported as fraudulent by another bank.  Mr W provided information to 
TSB. TSB didnt think the information was sufficient to provide proof of entitlement to the 
funds.
TSB decided to close the account. They wrote to Mr W informing him of their decision to 
close the account with immediate effect.
They didnt write to Miss W with this information. Miss W complained to TSB. They 
investigated and apologised for their mistake.
Mr W was unhappy that the account was closed. He thought the information he had provided 
was sufficient and it hadnt been looked at properly. 
The bank said they were entitled to ask for information in cases of fraud. The information 
provided by Mr W didnt satisfy them as to his entitlement to the funds that had been paid 
into his account.  TSB added a CIFAS marker against Mr W and closed the account. 
Mr W was unhappy with TSBs response, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said TSB were entitled to close the 
account and the conditions for immediate closure had been met. She thought TSB had 
correctly reported Mr W to the Credit Industry fraud avoidance system (CIFAS). She thought 
that TSB should have written to Mrs W to let her know that her joint account with Mr W was 
closing but TSB had apologised for this.
Mr W was unhappy with the view he said he thought he had provided enough information 
and he wanted the CIFAS marker removed. He thought TSBs reaction was extreme. He 
said he had been a TSB customer for a long time. He thought TSB hadnt looked at the 
information correctly. He also said he had a severe condition, and this situation was making 
things worse.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cifas marker
The investigator in their view explained the process a bank must follow in order to register a 
CIFAS marker. I have summarised the process below.
The marker that TSB have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr W was guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that TSB must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Ws account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr W was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent funds and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments.
However, a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
I need to assess whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof 
and therefore, whether TSB acted fairly in loading a CIFAS marker against Mr W.
Looking at the information provided by TSB Im satisfied that Mr Ws account received 
fraudulent funds on 5 September 2022. Im therefore satisfied that TSB met the first pillar to 
load a marker.
But this isnt sufficient on its own for TSB to load a marker, I need to be satisfied Mr W was 
complicit in the fraud, so in summary was deliberately dishonest and knew the funds were 
fraudulent. So, Ive moved on to consider this. I note that TSB asked Mr W to provide proof 
of entitlement to the funds received in the account.
I think its more likely than not Mr W was complicit in the transaction. I say this because:
TSB carried out a review of Mr Ws joint account.  Mr W was asked to provide proof 
of entitlement to the funds that had been paid into his account on 5 September 2022. 
Mr W provided a receipt for the transfer and some information regarding the payment 
having been received from abroad. He said this made it very difficult to get a 
statement.
Mr W hasnt been able to explain why the funds were received into his account or what the funds were payments for. Mr W told our service they were payments from 
family, but he wasnt able to give further explanation. In addition, if it was payment 
from family, I cant see how these payments would be reported as fraudulent to the 
bank.
The funds were received into the account on 5 September 2022, and they were 
withdrawn from the account by way of a money transfer on 6 September 2022. The 
account balance was reduced to a minimal amount. This is the pattern Id expect to 
see if fraudulent funds were deposited/transferred into an account.
The funds were paid into the account in three payments and withdrawn out in three 
payments. This is the pattern I would expect from someone who knew the funds were 
fraudulent.
Because of the reasons outlined I think its more likely than not that Mr W knew the funds 
received into his account were fraudulent. Taking all of this together, Im satisfied TSB had 
sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded on his file. It follows I wont be 
asking them to remove it.
Closure of the account
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
TSB has relied on the terms of the account to close it. TSB can close an account with 
immediate effect in certain circumstances. I have reviewed the terms of the account and the 
evidence, and I am satisfied that TSB closed the accounts in line with the account terms. 
And acted fairly in doing so. 
I can see that TSB wrote to Mr W on 21 September 2022 letting him know the account was 
closing with immediate effect. So, Im satisfied he was aware.As the account was closed 
fairly, I wont be asking TSB to reopen it.
Notice to close letter
Miss W didnt receive a letter from TSB informing her that the account was closing. Miss W 
complained to TSB, and I have seen their final response. TSB apologised for the error. I 
have considered whether Miss W suffered a detriment because of this, and I dont think she 
has. I say this because Mr W seems to be the main user of the account. I cant see that any 
wages, benefits or bills were paid into or from the account. Mr W could have told Miss W that 
the account was closing with immediate effect. I therefore consider an apology sufficient, 
and I wont be asking TSB to do anything else here.
I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. I accept that this has been a 
stressful time for him and Im very sorry that its made his condition worse. Having looked at 
all the evidence Im satisfied that TSB havent been unfair when they asked him for 
information regarding the proof of entitlement to the funds, when they closed his account or 
loaded a CIFAS marker. It follows I wont be asking them to do anything here.My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman