DRN-2758398
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with that time it took Adler Financial Planning Limited (Adler) to action his 
instruction to sell his investments. He believes this caused him a financial loss and 
significant stress and worry.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr S made a formal complaint to Adler about its failure to sell equities in his 
personal pension plan as he had instructed on 13 March 2020. In summary he said:
In an email on the evening of Thursday 12 March 2020 he told Adler he was 
seriously considering selling the equities in his personal pension plan (PPP) into 
cash.
At 8:00 am the following morning, Mr S instructed Adler during a phone call to sell his 
equity and property holdings in his PPP.
Mr S confirmed this instruction in an email to Adler at 8:32 am and received a reply at 
9:00 am that his instructions would be actioned immediately.
At 11:20am Mr S received an email from Adler stating the cut-off time for sales is 
9:00 am and so his instructions hadnt been carried out that day. 
Adler assured him that he would not result in a financial loss because of the delay.
Mr Ss instructions were subsequently carried out resulting in a financial loss. 
The terms of business state very clearly that the cut-off time for sales is 10:00am. 
Adlers inaction and behaviour caused him great concern and anxiety.
Adler looked into Mr S complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said during 
the call the morning of 13 March 2020 the adviser correctly asked Mr S to put his instruction 
in writing. And he told Mr S that he was preparing to leave the house at 8:20 am and would 
be unavailable then until after his appointment was complete. Mr S email with the written 
instruction arrived at 8:32 am. This was after the adviser had left his home and before 
Adlers office opening hours of 9:00 am. And although Mr S said that this shouldnt have 
mattered as the cut-off time for trading at the next Valuation Pricing Time was 10:00 am, this 
wasnt correct. Adler explained that revised terms and conditions were issued to Mr S along 
with every client on the platform, by email on 28 October 2019. The revised terms state that 
the cut-off time for buy/sell instructions on the platform was 9:00 am and became effective 
1 December 2019. As such, Adler concluded that given the timing of events as confirmed by 
Mr S, it would not have been possible to meet the 9:00 am cut-off time on Friday 
13 March 2020, and so cant be held responsible for the delay in selling the investments. 
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr S concerns but didnt agree that Adler had done anything 
wrong. She thought that Adler was proactive and carried out Mr S investment instructions in 
a fair and reasonable amount of time. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr S 
and Adler have about this matter. Both parties have provided detailed submissions to 
support their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that 
has been provided. However, I hope neither party will take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised, but to set out my findings and 
reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for improper conduct; thats the 
role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to decide if 
Adler has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial 
losses for which it is responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
complaint.
I understand Mr S feels that Adler could and should have implemented his instruction the 
day it was provided to them in writing. He said he was never told this wouldnt be the case 
and that hed never received the revised terms and conditions changing the cut-off time to 
trade from 10:00 am to 9:00 am. 
From what Ive been provided, its clear the written instruction was received after the time 
when Mr S adviser told him he would be available that morning. And from the evidence Ive 
seen, Adler actioned Mr S instruction promptly after its offices opened.  So I cant fairly say 
Adler could have acted sooner than it did. 
And in response to the investigators view Mr S seems to accept that Adler could not have 
carried out his instruction any sooner. However, he believes this is irrelevant because it was 
Adlers failure to meet the contracted and agreed timeline that led to [his] financial loss. Ive 
considered this and carefully looked at everything the parties have provided. Having done 
so, Im unable to agree that Adler caused Mr S a financial loss.
As an initial matter, the terms and conditions controlling here were created and issued by the 
platform, not Adler. And the platform changed the cut-off time from 10:00 am to 9:00 am 
effective from 1 December 2019. 
Alder said the revised terms and conditions were provided to all of its clients in an 
October 2019 email. Mr S said he never received them. I dont doubt Mr S recollection of not 
receiving them. But given what Adler has said about how this was provided to Mr S and that 
it didnt receive any indication the email had not been delivered, I consider it more likely than 
not that the revised terms and conditions were provided to Mr S.Regardless, Mr S believes Alder didnt treat him fairly because it should have done more to 
make sure he understood the trading time had changed. However, I dont agree. The 
transaction at issue here involve funds invested within a model portfolio. As such, trades 
typically occur automatically to maintain the correct risk profile of the portfolio and so the cut-
off time wouldnt necessarily be relevant here (which might also be why Mr S doesnt recall 
receiving the revised terms and conditions). 
Mr S has also said that Adler accepted his instruction and never said it would not be 
actioned that day. But as noted above, Adler did action the instruction the same day, the 
platforms cut-off time prevented it from being traded with that days valuation. And Adler let 
Mr S know that this was the case less than three hours after receiving the instruction. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Adler agreed the trade would complete that day or otherwise 
gave him reason to believe it would. 
In fact, having reviewed the terms and conditions, Im unable to agree that a trade was 
guaranteed to happen the same day even if the instruction was provided before the cut-off 
time. For example, the terms and conditions Mr S considers controlling, which give a 
10:00 am cut-off time, says in relevant part:
To be able to buy or sell at the price set at the Valuation Pricing Time, orders must be 
placed on the Freedom Platform by a specified Dealing Cut-Off Time'.
All orders received by 10.00 a.m. will be executed on the date of receipt or the next 
Valuation Pricing Time. (my emphasis)
Elsewhere it says:
The [Platforms] normal business practice is to buy/sell Units In Funds at the Valuation 
Pricing Time following receipt of your instruction and payment. This will normally be 
the same Business Day provided the relevant Dealing Cut-Off Time is met. However, 
in some instances, including but not limited to when unusually large numbers of 
instructions are received, your instruction may be placed on the subsequent Business 
Day at the next available Valuation Pricing Time.
And also:
When undertaking a switch involving Funds you will be out of the market whilst the 
deals are transacted. The sale will normally be placed at the first Valuation Pricing 
Time following receipt of your instructions 
Nothing here suggests to me the guarantee that Mr S says he was given that his trade would 
happen the same day that an instruction was given. And Ive not seen sufficient evidence 
that persuades me Adler told Mr S otherwise. 
Mr S was told within three hours of placing his instruction that the trade would be given the 
next business days valuation. At this point, he could have stopped the trade, but Mr S 
confirmed he wanted to proceed. I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, but I consider 
Alder actioned Mr S instruction promptly after it was received. And since Im not persuaded 
that there was a guarantee in the terms and conditions or elsewhere that the trade would 
take place the same day, I cant fairly say that any loss he may have suffered from trade 
taking place the following business day was a result of something Adler did wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman