DRN-3628335
The complaint
Mr C, through his representative, complains about two lines of credit approved for him by 
Indigo Michael Limited, trading as SafetyNet Credit.
What happened
Mr C has had two lines of credit with Indigo Michael. Mr C approached Indigo Michael for a 
Safety Net facility in April 2018. And then again in October 2019.
This type of facility offered by Indigo Michael was a running credit account where a 
consumer could either request funds up to their pre-agreed credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr Cs representative has described his complaint as being about 40 to 50 payday loans. 
Mr C was not advanced payday loans. Mr Cs representative has got that wrong.
Using the representatives letter of complaint as a foundation it does appear that Mr Cs 
complaint is that Indigo Michaels checks were insufficient in that the assessment and, Mr C 
says, verification of his outgoings were poorly undertaken: insufficient affordability checks 
were conducted. Mr C says that had they been undertaken, it would have been apparent that 
the loans and accrued interest could not be sustainably repaid, and it was not affordable 
and ought to have caused Indigo Michael to instigate additional checks.
Mr C prepared a Claim Audit Form for his representative and in it Mr C has said that he 
applied for the facility over the internet, he says that Indigo Michael did not ask for any 
documents and did not ask him about his outgoings and expenses. He said he was 
employed full time and earned about £2,100 (monthly net pay) and that his income did not 
significantly alter during the time he had the Indigo Michael facility. He gave his 
representative some figures to show his outgoings at the time he applied for the Indigo 
Michael account and on his figures he says he had £185 available funds each month.
Mr C said:
I had to pay it back weekly it was a big chunck [sic] to come out my wages so I had 
to keep borrowing the money back you fall into a trap and its hard to get out off [sic]
The response from Indigo Michael on 4 November 2020 was not a response as to the merits 
of the complaint but an observation about Mr Cs representatives authority to act for Mr C. 
So, it said that without more information, it would not proceed with the complaint.
Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in
March 2021. Upon contacting Indigo Michael in April 2021 to start the complaint investigation 
it said that the representatives letter of authority had been rejected and it had treated the 
complaint as withdrawn. It did send to us some of the information surrounding the account 
and Mr Cs application for the facility.
Careful review of the information I have from Indigo Michaels records shows me that Mr C 
had more than one bank account and so I have summarised here the ones I have identified 
and numbered them 1 to 5 to make the decision easier to read.
Account number ending Date facility approved for it Identified in this decision as:
*6769 April 2018 Bank Account 1
*9235 October 2018 Bank Account 2
*5907 Bank Account 3
*4730 - Bank Account 4
*4818 - Bank Account 5
Account 3 transfers appear in Account 1 regularly. Transfers occur between Accounts 1 and 
Account 2 regularly. Transfers between Account 2 and Account 4 appear between August 
and October 2019. Transfers between Account 2 and Account 5 in October 2019 into 2020.
Mr C was given a credit facility on two of his bank accounts.
Indigo Michael 
credit facilityDate approved Indigo Michael calculated income & 
expenditure
1 21 April 2018
Initial credit limit £100
Credit limit in March 2019 £430 and 
remained at that.
Account frozen by IM June 2019Income* £2,905 (rounded) 
Expenditure £1,912 (rounded)
2 Around 14 October 2019
Initial credit limit £250 raised to £890
In arrears account frozen October 2020Income** £3,093 (rounded) 
Expenditure £2,083 (rounded)
*Income here was mainly salary, some bank transfers, and a small amount of other income.
** Income here was mainly made up of bank transfers and some salary.
Indigo Michael first facility
The first facility was approved on Bank Account 1 in April 2018 with a £100 credit limit . His 
limit was increased incrementally and in March 2019 the credit limit was £430 at which it 
remained. For that account Indigo Michael has shown us records which tell us that Mr C had 
declared to it his net monthly income was £2,064, he was employed full time and was paid 
weekly. Indigo Michaels records included a summary box in which it had noted Mr Cs 
income to be just under £2,905. It had included transfers of money into his account of £610 
each month and that he had other income of around £170 a month. The credit search it had 
carried out showed that Mr Cs debt total on all unsecured accounts was £498.
That summary box states that Indigo Michael had calculated Mr C had essential (it terms this 
as non-disposable) expenditure of just under £1,912. So, it considered Mr C had a 
disposable income of over £993 a month from which it assessed Mr C could afford the credit 
facility with a limit of £100.
Indigo Michael has told us that the account was frozen in June 2019 which meant that Mr C 
could not draw down further. And the facility was paid off on 25 July 2019. Maybe because 
Indigo Michael has not investigated the complaint then I do not know the reason for that 
suspension in June 2019. But I have come to a finding on this later in the decision.
Second Indigo Michael facilityMr C was approved for a new credit facility on Bank Account 2 and the Indigo Michael 
records for that facility commenced in October 2019. It reviewed a series of bank account 
transactions for a period leading up to October 2019 and that was, upon analysis, on a 
different bank account to the one for the first credit facility.
The credit limit for this facility had an initial credit limit of £250. That limit was increased 
incrementally to £890 in September 2020 and in October 2020 the facility on that account 
was in arrears and it was frozen.
For the assessment of that credit facility, Indigo Michael records show that Mr Cs net 
monthly pay was declared by him as £4,000, that he was paid weekly and employed full 
time.
The credit search Indigo Michael had carried out showed that Mr Cs debt total on all 
unsecured accounts had increased a lot from £498 in April 2018 to £23,040 in October 2019.
Indigo Michaels summary box shows it had calculated that Mr Cs monthly income in total 
was just over £3,093, made up of salary payments of £1,010 and bank transfers of £2,065. It 
had noted that Mr Cs essential expenditure was just over £2,082 and so it considered that 
Mr Cs disposable monthly income was £1,010.
Indigo Michael has told us that in relation to the second facility, it went into arrears, was 
suspended and then sold to a third party debt collector in March 2021.
Our adjudicators views on each of the Indigo Michael facilities
For facility number 1, our adjudicators view was:
Prior to the first increase C frequently uses the full credit limit on a weekly basis. It is 
repaid and then shortly drawn down again. This happens on many occasions 
showing that C was using this facility more like a payday loan
Our adjudicator upheld facility 1 from 22 November 2018 as he thought that Indigo Michael 
had failed to monitor the account and the credit limit increase from £250 to £310 was wrong 
to have been done. Often Mr C was repaying all and then drawing down again immediately 
and making no headway in repaying the principal sums owed.
Our adjudicator thought that the second facility ought not to have been approved at all  it 
was approved within three months of the first facility being frozen by Indigo Michael. Mr Cs 
representative responded by acknowledging it and saying it would wait to hear from us 
further, but sent nothing further.
Indigo Michaels response
Indigo Michael responded by repeating what it has maintained from when the initial 
complaint was made which was that it did not consider it had received proper authorisation 
from the customer for the representative to act on Mr Cs behalf. So, it had not investigated 
the complaint and maintained that the Financial Ombudsman Service had no jurisdiction 
over it.
Our adjudicator responded to Indigo Michael by explaining that it was not the case and that 
we did have jurisdiction over the complaint. And further, that the complaint was to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision on both the jurisdiction and the merits parts of
Mr Cs complaint.Recent events
Since the complaint was passed to me I have asked our adjudicator to obtain detailed bank 
statements from Mr C in relation to each of three of the accounts identified, plus his credit 
file. Various reply date deadlines have been given. To date no information has been sent to 
us from Mr Cs representative or Mr C. Since those requests for information were made, 
I have further identified two accounts making five in total. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and on 19 July 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision. That is duplicated in its entirity below and in smaller type to differentiate 
it from the final decision. 
And as I said in my provisional decision, because several things have made it more difficult 
than usual and have hindered me then I chose to issue a provisional decision to inform all 
parties what conclusions I was coming to on the evidence I had at the time and to afford all 
parties time to respond with additional explanations and evidence.
Indigo Michael has responded to agree with my provisional decision which means it has 
agreed with the jurisdiction element as well. 
Mr C has not responded, and his representative has  those points I address in my main 
decision.
My provisional decision dated 19 July 2022 (in smaller type) 
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Indigo Michael as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. Ive thought 
carefully about what it has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not persuaded there is any 
reason why the Financial Ombudsman cannot consider this complaint.
It is disappointing that Indigo Michael has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply delaying 
the resolution of this complaint.
Indigo Michael has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mr C complained 
through his representative to Indigo Michael in October 2020 (Ive seen nothing to persuade me Mr C 
hadnt correctly authorised his representative), the complaint was referred here in March 2021, and 
the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to Indigo Michael on 14 April 2021 explaining the complaint was 
now being taken forward. It is now over a year since the complaint was originally made and Indigo 
Michael was informed we were progressing the complaint. Nonetheless, the firm disputes that it has 
not had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is clearly wrong in my opinion.
Indigo Michael has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider this matter 
in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of Mr Cs complaint, which 
is what I have gone on to do in the next part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time the facility was provided.
To start with, Mr C wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility where 
there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period. Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will 
pay no further interest on that drawdown.
Indigo Michael gave Mr C these credit facilities when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Overall, the guidance didnt require Indigo Michael to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the 
lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr C had the facility Indigo Michael maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, for it to allow Indigo Michael to monitor Mr Cs finances and to allow it to carry out 
additional affordability assessments.
Finally, Mr Cs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus any 
interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. Therefore, 
when Mr Cs facility was approved for £100 Indigo Michael needed to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to make the repayment of around £20 each month by carrying out a proportionate check.
In this case, Indigo Michael had a fairly good idea of Mr Cs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. It then 
used an algorithm to establish what Mr Cs income and expenditure was, and after completing this 
check, in this case, Indigo Michael was satisfied that Mr C could afford the minimum repayment 
towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before each facility was granted. Ive considered the summary of 
results Indigo Michael has provided, and, I dont think these results for the first credit search read on 
their own wouldve led Indigo Michael to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out 
further checks into Mr Cs situation before the facility was approved. My view differs for the credit 
search carried out before the second credit facility was approved as Mr Cs debt had increased a 
great deal. I come back to this later in the decision.
And so, I do not agree with Mr Cs contentions that he was never asked for documentation and that 
Indigo Michael did not carry out any (or any adequate) checks. Indigo Michaels access to his bank 
accounts affords it direct access to his financial position and usually comprehensive information.
My provisional findings on the merits of the two credit facilities
The approval of the first credit facility for Mr C can be viewed separately from the second because it 
was first in time  April 2018 as opposed to October 2019.
What I have discovered reviewing all the information I have for both credit facility complaints is that 
Ive seen transaction data from Indigo Michaels records sent to us for each credit facility which, 
combined, show me a long period of transactions into two different bank accounts held by Mr C. And 
I have been in a unique position to be able to see quite a lot of detail about Mr Cs finances. Mr Cs 
financial arrangements seemed complicated and spread across five bank accounts and without any 
input from Mr C then I am not able to decipher it all. But using what I have has given me some idea.
To clarify this broad stretch of financial information I have about Mr C, here is a brief table and it links 
with the table earlier in this decision in which I explained I would be referring to each bank account as 
Bank Accounts 1 to 5.
Bank 
accountTransaction data from Indigo Michael records
1 transaction data from 22 January 2018 to June 20192 transaction data from 22 November 2018 to 3 September 2020
3, 4 & 5 No separate copy transaction data for accounts, 3, 4 and 5
And the reason I can identify the two separate bank accounts for each credit facility is by cross-
referring the transactions and seeing that there are transfers of funds from Bank Accounts 2 & 3 which 
credit Bank Account 1 ending *6769. And similarly, I can see transfers of funds from Bank Account 1 
which credit Bank Account 2.
Bank Account 1 has a very different usage from Bank Account 2. Bank Account 1 received credits 
weekly and seem to have been salary payments and they ranged from £517 to £569. The company 
from which they were paid is named and to make this decision more readable I am calling it AB 
Company. And a lot of those salary credits were transferred into Bank Account 2 over the years.
Relatively little takes place on that account in between salary credits. Theres a standing order to a 
savings account of £20 a week, some petrol spending and some other transactions but not enough for 
me to think that all of Mr Cs expenditure is shown here.
On Bank Account 2, a different salary appeared to have been crediting the account as these credits 
appeared monthly and from a different company to the weekly credits into Bank Account 1. Again, to 
make this decision more readable I plan to name this as XY Company.
These monthly salary credits from XY Company ranged from £1,102 to £1,323 in 2019.
From June 2019 two things changed  Mr Cs weekly salary from AB Company, which previously had 
been crediting Bank Account 1 and being transferred into Bank Account 2, started to credit Bank 
Account 2 directly rather than Bank Account 1. And Mr Cs monthly salary from XY Company was 
being credited still.
And from 26 July 2019 Mr C started to receive into Bank Account 2 what appears to have been a 
regular salary from a third Company I will have to name as PQ Company to help make this decision 
readable. So, these receipts from PQ Company (XY Company credits do not appear any further) 
suggests his job may have changed and they continued to credit Bank Account 2. If, as I think it was, 
a salary then it increased as the July 2019 payment was for £1,466.
Bank Account 1 differs to Bank Account 2 in that the other transactions in Bank Account 2 listed are a 
variety of items including bills and other credit commitment payments, gift purchases, repayment plan, 
food and retail purchases and Council Tax. There were some transactions to betting or gaming 
websites but Id describe them as low-level betting and gaming transactions and not something Id 
expect a lender to have been unduly concerned about.
My provisional conclusions
I have spent a long time studying all that I have from Indigo Michael. Several things have made it 
more difficult than usual and have hindered me which is why I am issuing a provisional decision to 
afford all parties time to respond with additional explanations and evidence.
Indigo Michael has not fully explained what happened with these two credit facilities. And it has 
persisted in its issue surrounding our jurisdiction over the complaint. Now Ive made my decision on 
that then I trust that more information about some of the details around these credit facilities will be 
sent to us.
Mr Cs representative has framed the complaint incorrectly and so did not appear to understand the 
nature of the credit facilities Mr C has had with Indigo Michael.
Mr C has received several requests  the last few being on my behalf  to provide additional 
information for me to come to a proper understanding of what was happening with Mr Cs finances  
to no avail. In one of the information requests I did ask our adjudicator to make it clear that on current evidence I think that Mr C was in receipt of two salaries and receipt of additional information from 
Mr C would assist. But nothing was received.
So, my provisional findings on Mr Cs complaint are as follows:
-the original credit facility approved for the bank account ending *6769 was satisfactory as it 
was for a £100, Indigo Michael had read only access to that account and considered  
correctly in my view  that Mr C could afford it. Indigo Michael carried out extensive checks 
and they were proportionate for the credit facility offered;
-during the time that the first credit facility was used by Mr C, I do not consider that the 
transactions on that bank account *6769 demonstrated to Indigo Michael that Mr C was in 
any sort of financial difficulties. And the credit limit, even at the end of the first credit facility 
relationship was still relatively low at £430. I can see that during the period that first credit 
facility was open there were some transactions which, if high in number, may have caused 
Indigo Michael some concern. These include in May 2018 evidence of payment towards a 
guarantor loan of around £61 a month. Then 8 Nov 2018 there is an indication Mr C started 
receiving and paying for several other loans. Then May 2019  several debt collector 
payments appear plus at least one high cost lender is being used by Mr C. And around that 
time the first credit facility account was suspended June 2019. The full balance repaid 
25 July 2019.
-the reason for that facility ending is not entirely clear. There is a possibility Mr C got into 
arrears but the summary I have of that credit facility account shows a very limited time in 
arrears if he was. And further, Mr C was able to clear the balance in full in July 2019. So, 
I do not think that the facility was incorrectly monitored or that Indigo Michael needed to 
have had any concerns earlier than it did in June 2019.
-I think its more likely that Mr C was rearranging the facilities he had on his differing bank 
accounts which may have been linked with what appears to have been some changes in 
his employment/salary receipts as outlined earlier.
- On current evidence I am not persuaded that the first credit facility coming to an end when it 
did was not done at the right time. Whether that was Indigo Michael suspending it or Mr C 
choosing to end it  I am unsure  but as this is a provisional decision both parties have 
time to come back to me on this.
-if Indigo Michael had any concerns during the monitoring of the first credit facility, a relatively 
easy way to have allayed its fears would have been to have asked for copies of the other 
bank account (or access to it on a read only basis)  into which many transfers were being 
made each month  account number ending *9235. And if it had done that, on current 
evidence seen by me, I think that Mr C was and had been receiving another salary from 
XY Company as well as AB Company. And so Indigo Michael would have realised he 
would have been able to afford the first facility;
-as for the Indigo Michael credit facility 2, around the same time that Mr C appears to have 
paid off and, effectively closed, the credit facility 1 on account *6769, Mr C seems to have 
arranged for his weekly salary from AB Company to be paid directly into the other bank 
account Bank Account 2 ending * 9235  plus he appears to have changed jobs and 
started to receive salary like credits from PQ Company after XY Company salaries ceased. 
There seemed to be a seamless transition.
-from all of this I think that Mr C reapplied for the second Indigo Michael credit facility to 
arrange for that same facility to be on Bank Account 2. And I doubt that Indigo Michael had 
cause to be concerned about the affordability of that second credit facility for two reasons:
 the first being that I think Indigo Michael would have seen Mr C was receiving into 
that bank account two salaries  a weekly from AB Company and a monthly from 
PQ Company; and
 the second is that, if my provisional findings on current evidence is that the first 
facility was effectively closed without much concern over arrears then I do not 
consider that Indigo Michael would have had any particular concern relating to 
Mr Cs relationship history with it and so not likely to be concerned about the 
£250 credit limit it gave him for the second facility attached to Bank Account 2.
The only area where there may have been concern is that Mr Cs credit search carried out by Indigo 
Michael for Mr C for the second facility in 2019 did show a marked increase in the debt that Mr C had 
outstanding. I have asked Mr C about this by requesting a copy of his credit file, but I have received 
nothing. So, I can take this point no further.
If my provisional finding on the double salary is correct, which I am fairly sure Mr C has received 
through a combination of the weekly and monthly salaries from the companies I have referred to 
earlier, then that leads me to think that Indigo Michael likely would have thought Mr C perfectly able to 
pay back the second credit facility within a reasonable time if he needed to. The second credit limit of 
£250 was relatively modest.
Indigo Michael needed to monitor credit facility 2. And I have reviewed the transaction data on Bank 
Account 2 in relation to credit facility 2.
I cannot entirely understand Mr Cs financial affairs from looking at transaction data, and some 
elements are perplexing. One example is that Mr C transferred money out to Bank Account 4 regularly 
and for relatively large sums. This may not be his account but on current evidence and without more 
from Mr C I am assuming it was one of his accounts. And one of the reasons for saying that is 
because there were transfers back into Bank Account 2 which suggests Mr C had control of it.
Mr C was receiving credits from Indigo Michael every week to ten days. And I can see that from 
1 November 2019 Mr C was repaying a loan which was costing him about £360 each month. And 
Mr C was repaying something on a payment plan (around £42 a month) from October 2019.
And yet despite these additional debts, its perplexing as Mr C seems to receive salaries and then 
transfer them out to Bank Account 4 the same day, when it looks as though he could have used it to 
pay the debts.
For example, 19 December 2019 he received £530 from AB Company, followed by £1,193 from 
PQ Company and on each of those days transferred the same sums out to Bank Account 4. In the 
weeks following that, each time AB Company salary credited the account, most if not all of it was 
moved to Bank Account 4. And it was not often that money was transferred back from Bank Account 4 
to this Bank Account 2. And if there were any credits from Bank Account 4 they were much smaller 
(like £30) than the sums I have seen being transferred into Bank Account 4. And the same pattern of 
salaries from PQ Company and AB Company being transferred into Bank Account 4 repeats in 
January 2020 and other months too.
Without more information and explanations from Mr C I can only assume that Bank Account 4 was in 
credit and was relatively healthy and so if called upon to repay this Indigo Michael credit facility then 
hes likely able to do that. And I think that Indigo Michael may have come to a similar conclusion too.
In April 2020 £1,166 was a credit from what I think to be Mr Cs Bank Account 5. This suggests Mr C 
had further money or savings elsewhere. From March 2020 Mr Cs salary from PQ Company exceeds 
£1,600 each month and Mr C is in receipt of money from AB Company which works out to be about 
£2,075 for four weeks.
So, on current evidence, I am planning not to uphold Mr Cs complaint about either of the two credit 
facilities Mr C applied for and were approved by indigo Michael.
I will review the complaint on 2 August 2022.
And considering the delays and the responses (or rather  lack of responses) from one or both of the 
parties then I doubt that Ill be persuaded to extend that deadline beyond 2 August 2022. Its in the 
interests of both parties for this complaint to be resolved.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How did the parties respond to the provisional decision?
Indigo Michael agreed with my provisional findings and from that it seems Indigo Michael 
has no issue on jurisdiction anymore. It has not sent to us any further evidence.
Mr Cs representative has told us that Mr C has been forwarded a copy of the provisional 
decision but has not responded to them about it. It has not asked for an extension of time. 
I have waited a further week beyond the 2 August 2022 deadline. Nothing has been received 
other than the representatives points which are summarised here:
othis seems to be a case where a lot of the facts are in doubt, and I would respectfully 
request that Indigo Michael are not given the benefit of the doubt under the 
circumstances
othe significant increase in debt from Indigo Michaels credit search from £498 to 
£23,040 is something that Indigo Michael ought to provide an answer as to why it lent 
when the applicant  Mr C  had such a huge debt balance increase
othe complex  and perhaps chaotic  nature of [Mr Cs] finances should not be a 
reason for re-lending to Mr C  but rather the opposite should be true.
othe betting/gaming transactions, although observed to be low-level is a further 
demonstration that Mr C was not using the facility for its intended purpose.
I have reviewed the complaint with these observations in mind.
In my provisional decision I made it clear that I had been asking Mr C for additional 
information to clarify many of these issues surrounding his financial circumstances and had 
received nothing. And Mr Cs representative has not been able to obtain additional 
information either since the provisional decision was issued. 
And in my provisional decision, I made it clear that on the current evidence and on the 
interpretation of the two sets of bank account transactions I had welded together from Indigo 
Michaels records, it seems to me that Mr C was in receipt of two salaries. And likely had 
savings accounts elsewhere and/or had reason for his multiple transfers across several 
accounts (at least five). And considering that the initial credit limits for each facility were low 
then I consider that Mr Cs financial situation shows hed be able to afford them. And as for 
the monitoring of each of the facilities, I repeat what I have said in my provisional decision. 
And so, I agree that the complex nature of Mr Cs finances has been difficult to interpret. 
What I have seen shows me that he likely was able to afford the two facilities. 
It is not a question of giving Indigo Michael the benefit of any doubt. This is Mr Cs complaint 
and it is for him to make the case. I have analysed what I have from the lender and then Ive 
given Mr C several opportunities to clarify the situation, and so I gave him the benefit of my 
provisional findings and invited him to respond. I have used the information I have and 
requested clarity from Mr C. Having not received it then all I can do is come to some 
conclusions based on the information I have.It would be for Mr C to explain the large increase in the debt balance. But he has not.
The betting/gaming transactions were relatively low and Mr Cs representative seems to 
agree that they were low level. In my view they were not transactions at a level where 
I would consider a professional lender would consider it warranted further investigation.
Having now issued a lengthy and very detailed provisional decision, it seems that no further 
information to assist and clarify matters will be forthcoming and so it seems right and just for 
both parties that I come to a resolution of this complaint and issue a final decision using the 
information I have. 
So, my conclusion is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman