DRN-1420269
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc recorded a missed payment on his credit file after it 
failed to collect a direct debit payment for his credit card. 
What happened
Santander sent Mr C a statement in May 2019 that said he needed to pay £5 the following 
month. But no manual payment was made and no direct debit was collected. Mr C incurred a 
£5 late payment fee and a missed payment was recorded on his credit file. 
Mr C complained and said he had a direct debit in place to make sure his payments were 
made. Santander said there was no active direct debit instruction in place for Mr Cs June 
2019 payment which is why it wasnt collected. Mr C referred his complaint to our service 
and it was passed to an investigator. They said the direct debit instruction had been 
cancelled after it hadnt been used to make a payment for 13 months. The investigator didnt 
agree that Santander had treated Mr C unfairly and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr C said he wasnt aware direct debits could become dormant and asked to appeal. As a 
result, Mr Cs case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration at missing the June 2019 payment on his credit card and 
that it has impacted his credit file. Ive looked at Santanders actions and whether it's treated 
Mr C fairly by recording a missed payment with the credit reference agencies. Im very sorry 
to disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded that Santander has made an error or 
treated him unfairly in this case. 
As the investigator has said, industry rules mean that direct debits can be made dormant if 
they arent collected for 13 months. Mr C set up his direct debit instruction in February 2018 
and more than 13 months passed before the June 2019 payment was due. As a result, there 
was no active direct debit in place to collect the payment. Mr C says Santander didnt notify 
him his direct debit had become dormant. Whilst I agree thats the case, I wouldnt expect a 
business to contact its customers each time a direct debit that hadnt been used for 13 
months became dormant.
I also think its reasonable to note that from February 2018 onwards Mr C consistently made 
manual payments to cover his credit card bill. Mr C was aware of how to make payments. 
Ive also checked the address Santander sent its credit card statement to. The address is in 
line with the one Mr C has given our service. So I think its more likely than not that he 
received the May 2019 statement explaining Mr C needed to pay £5 the following month. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but there was no active direct debit instruction in place in June 
2019 which meant Santander couldnt automatically collect the minimum payment. As Mr C didnt make the payment on time, Santander reported that to the credit reference agencies, 
in line with the credit cards terms. Mr C didnt make the June 2019 payment on time so I 
dont have grounds to tell Santander to remove the late payment it reported or refund the fee 
he incurred. As I'm satisfied Santander hasn't made an error and has dealt with Mr C's 
complaint fairly I'm not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman