DRN-3600048
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt make.
What happened
Miss W was contacted by someone about a booking shed recently made with 
Booking.com. They told her the card shed used hasnt passed the system check and 
shed need to try again using a link. 
Miss W did this and entered her card details, but it asked for a code which she didnt 
receive. So, as per their instructions, she tried again with different cards, including 
her Monzo card. 
The following day she noticed that several payments had been made from her 
account using Apple Pay  for £504.74. When she raised these with Monzo, it 
declined to refund them  it said that as shed set up Apple Pay using her Monzo 
app, they wouldnt be considered as fraud. But it did give her £50 for the service she 
received when she disputed the payments. 
Unhappy, Miss W brought her concerns to our service to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that 
Miss W is liable for authorised payments and Monzo is liable for unauthorised 
payments.
To consider these payments authorised, the PSRs explain that Miss W must have 
given her consent to the execution of the payment transactions  and that consent 
must have been in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between 
her and Monzo.
Monzo say that because Miss W went through the steps to finish setting up Apple 
Pay in her Monzo app, she authorised all the payments using it.
I disagree. Thats because Im not persuaded the steps to finish setting up Apple Pay 
are the same as the form and procedure to consent to the execution of payments, 
which is what the PSRs require. In my mind, its akin to saying that activating your 
physical debit card is the same as consenting to each and every payment using it  
thats not the case. 
And here, it wouldnt have been possible to make these payments simply by having 
Apple Pay  the PIN or biometrics must have been used again on the device to 
approve the payment with the merchant. Monzo hasnt argued that Miss W was 
involved with carrying out these steps  after all, they happened using someone 
elses device in a foreign currency. So it follows that I dont consider she went 
through the form or the procedure to consent to these payments. They are, therefore, 
unauthorised.
Monzo submit its still not liable for unauthorised transactions under the PSRs 
because it thinks Miss W failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account and keep her personalised security details safe.
Im not persuaded thats the right consideration. These were card payments made 
online  so theyre distant contracts. And from the merchant category codes  an 
electronics shop and telecommunication services  I dont think theyre excepted 
contracts. So, in line section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, Miss W isnt liable for the 
unauthorised transactions regardless of whether she failed with gross negligence.
But even if Im wrong about that, I dont think Monzo has shown Miss W failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why. 
Fraudsters had cleverly duped Miss W into providing her card details using a website 
which, on face value, appeared secure and legitimate. 
Ive considered that Miss W doesnt recall going through the steps in her app to finish 
setting up Apple Pay. But I note this wouldve been very quick to through  she only 
needed to click approve followed by a separate screen with her biometrics. Indeed, 
from the system records, it seems she logged on her app and did this in around thirty 
seconds. So, it doesnt surprise me that Miss W didnt clearly recall this process. 
Monzo submit she shouldve read and gone through these steps carefully, given she 
didnt request it and the situation wasnt time sensitive. But its clear Miss W was 
being messaged consistently to sort this out and it was a booking she was keen to 
keep. And given that her card seemingly wasnt working and she wasnt receiving the 
code she expected, I can see why she wouldve interacted with her app if a prompt 
came through. 
I accept Miss W couldve taken more time to read the prompts  but I note its only 
one screen that mentioned Apple Pay, and there isnt a clear warning that she was 
setting it up on someone elses device. So, even if I accept that didnt act entirely 
reasonably here, I dont think she acted with very significant carelessness to 
conclude she failed with gross negligence. 
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded Miss W is liable for these disputed 
payments and Monzo needs to put things right  by refunding her losses from them 
alongside interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner. Its failure to do so led Miss W to 
experience poor mental health. I also note that Monzos communication with her  
both its timeliness and tone  wasnt what Id reasonably expect. Monzo has already 
paid Miss W £50 to reflect this. But given the impact this had on her, I award a further 
£100 to reflect her non-financial losses.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and order Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Pay Miss W the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £504.74.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a further £100 for Miss Ws distress and inconvenience  to bring it to a total of 
£150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman