DRN-1554991
Complaint
Miss O says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss O bought the policy in 2004, at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered her 
in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Os case.
Having done that, I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Os credit card application had a section for PPI. It said it was something customers 
could take out which M&S generally recommended  this was only a recommendation, not a 
requirement. It gave a brief overview of the policys purpose and cost. Then there was a box 
Miss O could sign if she wanted PPI, which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Miss O 
signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing for the card as a whole. So I think that M&S 
made Miss O aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
M&S didnt give Miss O tailored financial advice about buying the policy, so they didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. They did have to give Miss O enough information to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information M&S gave Miss O about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, Miss O chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. She only got limited sick pay 
and redundancy pay through work, and didnt have any savings. So the policy could have 
been useful for Miss O in case she was off sick or lost her job. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Miss O could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, I understand that when Miss O was out of work in 2007, she didnt claim on the PPI. 
But thats because shed already closed this account in 2006.
My final decisionFor the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman