DRN-2844396
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr C applied to Starling for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, but his application was 
declined. The basis of Starlings decision was adverse credit information on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C didnt think that the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme allowed Starling to carry 
out credit checks or apply affordability criteria, so he raised a complaint. But Starling 
maintained its decision, so Mr C referred his complaint to us. 
While Mr Cs complaint was with us, and following discussions with our Service about its use 
of credit information in assessing Bounce Back Loan applications, Starling reviewed and 
amended its processes. It invited Mr C to reapply in January 2021, but by this time Mr C s 
was no longer looking to take out the loan. Starling also offered to pay Mr C compensation of 
£250 for any inconvenience he suffered between his initial application being declined in May 
and the offer to reapply in January.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and thought that Starlings offer was a 
fair way to put things right. But Mr C didnt think the level of compensation was sufficient. He 
said that being left without the loan had been extremely stressful, requiring him to seek help 
through Universal Credit and a reduction in his council tax payments. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, lenders werent entitled to decline 
applications on the basis of affordability or credit concerns. But thats what Starling did in 
Mr Cs case. So it was right that it offered to reconsider the application afresh.
As six months had passed by the time Starling invited Mr C to reapply, his circumstances 
had changed and he no longer required the loan. But as Starlings original decision was an 
error, its right that Mr C is also compensated for any impact this had on him.
Mr C hasnt told us that he suffered any financial losses as a result of being unable to obtain 
the Bounce Back Loan when he first applied. While I note he sought financial assistance 
elsewhere through the government and local authority, the nature of these alternatives mean 
that hes no worse off. 
Mr C says that being declined for the Bounce Back Loan was extremely stressful. And given 
that the purpose of the loan was to help small businesses cope with the uncertainty and 
challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic, I can see how being denied this support 
wouldve been concerning and upsetting for him. And it meant he had to source the 
alternative support referred to above. 
At the same time, I cant say for certain that Mr C wouldve been eligible for the loan even if 
Starling had assessed it fairly  while applications were subject to reduced checks, eligibility 
wasnt guaranteed and Mr Cs application may have failed for another reason. And while I 
accept that his options wouldve been relatively limited, Mr C was also free to apply to 
another lender for a Bounce Back Loan.
So taking all of the above into account, I think that Starlings offer of £250 is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that its error caused Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Starling Bank Limited to 
pay Mr C compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman