DRN-3502167
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) decreased the limit on her 
credit card without notice.
What happened
Mrs B says Barclaycard reduced the credit limit on her credit card from £11,900 to £250 in 
March 2021. She says it gave no notice of doing so and no explanation for the reduction. 
Mrs B says she is currently on furlough and had to borrow money from friends as a result of 
this decrease. She adds that there is no adverse information on her credit file.
Barclaycard says the credit limit decrease was applied following a review of her account and 
a letter was sent to her on 5 March 2021 notifying her of the upcoming change. It says the 
review included information held on the Barclaycard account alongside information received 
from credit reference agencies. Barclaycard says all factors are considered to ensure the 
credit limit remains affordable, but that Mrs B is welcome to request a review of the limit six 
months after the decrease.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Barclaycard was entitled to change the credit limit in the way that it did and was not required 
to give Mrs B a detailed explanation of its reasons for doing so. She was also satisfied that 
the evidence showed Mrs B was sent a letter about the credit limit decrease just before it 
was implemented.
Mrs B responded to say, in summary that shed paid off her balance in full just before 
Barclaycard reduced her credit limit. She said she used her savings to do so and then had to 
cut back on living expenses to afford utilities because she was on furlough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs account entitled Barclaycard to 
decrease the credit limit in the way that it did.
They say: We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and 
history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive from 
credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant.
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it 
from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
I acknowledge that Mrs B says she didnt receive notification of the credit limit change, but 
Ive seen evidence to show that a letter was sent out on 5 March 2021. Ive also seen 
evidence to show Mrs B complained about the credit limit shortly after this as I can see 
Barclaycard sent her another letter on 10 March 2021 which addresses her complaint about 
the credit limit change.
So, I find Barclaycard did nothing wrong by reviewing her account and decreasing the credit 
limit, and Im satisfied it notified Mrs B of the change.
Ive also considered whether the change has had a detrimental effect on Mrs Bs financial 
situation. I acknowledge that she says she used all her savings to pay off the credit card 
before the limit decrease and this has meant she has had to borrow from friends because 
she was furloughed.
Ive reviewed the pattern of spending on the credit card in the lead up to the credit limit 
decrease and in the preceding seven months the highest balance on any statement was 
£68. I cant see Mrs B was using the card for priority expenditure and she only made 
payments to the account infrequently as there were multiple credits from an online retailer 
which offset the expenditure. Indeed, Mrs Bs combined payments to the card in the 
preceding seven months totalled around £80. So its not immediately clear that decreasing 
the credit limit here would have had a significant impact in the way Mrs B says it did.
I accept Mrs B may have been caused some frustration and inconvenience by the limit 
change, but I cant conclude Barclaycard did anything wrong. I also note that Barclaycard 
has said Mrs B has been able to request an increase in her credit limit from September 
2021.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman