DRN-2407194
The complaint
Mr N complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed someone to open a fraudulent 
account in his name. 
Mr N would like an explanation about how this happened, and how it was later detected. He 
would also like more compensation than Barclays offered. 
What happened
On 3 January 2020, a Barclays account was opened in Mr Ns name. Mr N received a debit 
card through the post, but thought it must be related to his genuine Barclays account. On 6 
January, Barclays wrote to Mr N, saying it was concerned about an account recently opened 
in his name, because it believed another person had used Mr Ns name and personal 
identification details to impersonate him. Barclays also said that if Mr N confirmed he hadnt 
opened the account, it would place an impersonation marker against his name with the fraud 
protection organisation CIFAS. This should protect him against further impersonation 
attempts.
Mr N told Barclays he hadnt opened the account. On 10 January, Barclays wrote to say it 
had completed its fraud investigation. It said it had closed the fraudulent account, and had 
asked for Mr Ns credit file to be cleansed. Barclays also said it had provided information to 
CIFAS, which aimed to protect him from further impersonation attempts.
Mr N wanted to know how the fraudulent account had been opened, and he wanted 
compensation for the inconvenience.
In its final response, Barclays apologised for Mr Ns distress and said fraud was always 
highly distressing. It said it was currently unsure how Mr Ns personal information had been 
compromised, but speculated that it might have been postal interception. Barclays offered 
Mr N £200 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr N wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Barclays had allowed a 
fraudster to open an online facility to obtain products. He believed its initial verification 
process was lacking or had failed. Although Barclays had then detected fraud and closed the 
account, Mr N said the gap had been long enough for fraud to be committed. He estimated 
that hed spent over 40 hours detailing with credit reference agencies, and had had to pay 
for subscription services to a credit refence agency. It had caused tremendous stress 
because hed been moving house at the time.
As an outcome, Mr N said he wanted an explanation about why Barclays verification 
process failed; why it allowed the account to be opened; and how it later detected the 
fraudulent activity. And he wanted more compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. She said she couldnt say Barclays was at 
fault because someone applying for an account in his name wasnt within Barclays control. 
She thought Barclays compensation offer was fair.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he didnt believe Barclays had followed its own checking 
procedures. And he said £200 compensation wasnt reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I do understand that being a victim of fraud is a distressing and very time consuming 
matter. I sympathise with Mr N for the inconvenience and stress he has been through. 
Ultimately, its the fraudster who is responsible for that upset. But I have looked at the 
evidence to see whether Barclays acted fairly towards Mr N.
I recognise that Mr N wants to know full details of Barclays procedures, including what they 
initially checked, and how the fraud was discovered. There were anti-fraud measures in 
place, because Barclays identified the fraud and acted on those measures. But banks dont 
disclose this type of detailed confidential information to customers, for security reasons. So 
its not open to me to provide this to Mr N.
I have, however, looked at how Barclays dealt with the issue. The fraudulent account was 
opened online on 3 January, and I can see that the fraudster gave an address from which Mr 
N had moved or was about to move. Only the fraudster knows for certain how he or she 
obtained Mr Ns details, but I think the explanation which Barclays gave Mr N in its final 
response  that there might have been postal interception  was reasonable. 
Ive looked at the timescales. Barclays identified the account as fraudulent and closed it on 6 
January, three days after it was opened. I consider this was reasonable. It also wrote to Mr N 
about the account on 10 January to confirm it had closed the account. In terms of other 
actions, by that date Barclays had also placed an anti-fraud marker for Mr N on CIFAS, to 
help prevent similar things in future. And it had also notified the credit reference agencies 
and had asked for Mr Ns credit file to be cleansed as a precaution. The letters sent to Mr N 
also gave information about fraud prevention which could be found on a government 
website, Barclays website, and a phone number for Barclays fraud team.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that Barclays acted fairly towards Mr N. I do 
recognise that he had inconvenience and upset, but ultimately that was caused by the 
fraudster. And looking at compensation, I consider Barclays offer of £200 was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered to pay Mr N £200 compensation, which I 
consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its not clear to me whether or not 
this has been paid, but if not, my final decision is that Barclays should pay Mr N £200. I do 
not uphold Mr Ns complaint for further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman