DRN-4399010
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D had a multi-purpose vehicle, first registered in 2012.
For the year from early May 2022, Mrs D had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Tesco. The policy schedule said she had nine year no-claims discount (NCD) which was 
protected. 
The policy covered Mrs D as policyholder and her husband as a named driver. The cost was 
about £285.00.
In late July 2022, a third party made a claim to Tesco that Mrs D had accidentally damaged 
the third partys vehicle.
Tesco settled the third partys claim. By a letter dated early January 2023, Tesco told Mrs D 
that it had dealt with the matter on the basis that she was responsible.
Mrs D complained to Tesco that it was treating her unfairly.
In April 2023, Tesco gave Mrs D a renewal quote of over £800.00. That included an 
additional named driver.
By a final response dated late April 2023, Tesco turned down the complaint.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us in late May 2023.
In mid-July 2023, Tesco offered Mrs D £100.00 compensation, which she declined.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Tescos actions were fair and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She and her husband say, in summary, that: 
The third partys claim was unfounded.
Tesco told them it regarded their driver to be at fault and that this must be declared to 
any prospective insurer on any relevant vehicle for the next 5 years.
Tesco confirmed to them that it was wrong to settle without informing Mrs D in 
advance. 
By a letter dated 10 October 2023, Tesco sent Mrs D a cheque for £100.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim (especially a fault claim) is likely to affect the policyholders premium for the 
following few years.
Like most motor policies, Tescos policy contained a term allowing it to decide how to deal 
with a claim involving a third party. Tescos term was as follows:
5. Dealing with claims
You or any other person who claims under this policy must not negotiate, admit fault 
or make any payment, offer or promise of payment unless you have our written 
permission.
In dealing with any claim under the terms of this policy we may:
 carry out the defence or settlement of any claim
 take any legal action in your name or the name of any other person covered by this 
policy.
We can do any of these in your name or in the name of any person claiming under 
this policy.
Anyone who makes a claim under this policy must give us any reasonable 
information we ask for that is relevant to your claim
In my view, that meant that, on a question of how best to deal with a third partys claim, 
Tescos view would prevail over its policyholders view.
I will consider whether Tesco applied that term fairly in Mrs Ds case.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each driver and their witnesses.
Tesco received a claim from the third party and felt obliged to deal with it.
Im satisfied that Tesco took into account Mrs Ds version of events. She said that she had 
parked next to a vehicle and noted that it was already damaged. So Mrs D moved her 
vehicle.
Tesco appointed an engineer to assess Mrs Ds vehicle for any damage. The engineer noted 
moderate damage to various areas of the car but didnt express an opinion whether the  
vehicle had damaged the third partys vehicle.
Tesco received a statement from someone who knew the third party, saying that Mrs D had 
hit the third partys vehicle. Mrs Ds husband has criticised the lack of detail in that 
statement. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that Tesco had to take it into account.
The third partys insurer gave notice of intention to issue court proceedings against Mrs D for 
damage repair of about £1,200.00. 
Tesco assessed how it thought a judge would weigh up the available evidence. Tesco  
decided that, rather than incur the cost and risk of court proceedings, it would settle the third 
partys claim.
Im satisfied that Tescos decision to settle was a reasonable decision in the circumstances.I keep in mind the policy term quoted above. I dont consider that Tesco treated Mrs D 
unfairly by making its decision to settle without telling her in advance  - whatever Tesco said 
later.
Tesco says that it offered Mrs D £100.00 for shortcomings in its explanation of its reasons 
for settling. Our investigator found that fair. But Mrs D disagreed. So I wouldnt have 
expected Tesco to send a cheque in October 2023. Nevertheless, I consider that Mrs D may 
present the cheque.
However, Ive found that Tescos decision to settle was reasonable. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Tesco to change the way it has recorded the claim against Mrs D or to 
offer her any redress for the effect on her premiums for the current year and the next few 
years.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman