DRN-3609637
The complaint
Mr P complains about charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (Novuna) asked him to pay to refurbish a car at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr P, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr P responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). I understand that Mr P accepts the damage to the car is beyond the fair wear and 
tear guidance. 
Whilst Mr P accepts responsibility for the damage to the internal door sill and drivers door 
edge, he doesnt accept responsibility for the other damage Novuna are charging him for. He 
says that damage happened after the lease ended and before the car was inspected and 
collected and happened because he had to move the car from his drive to the road to make 
space for his replacement vehicle.
Mr Ps car was therefore parked on the road for nine days until it was collected and 
inspected. 
Im asked to decide what was most likely to have happened and I think its much more likely 
that the damage happened during the 53 proceeding months Mr P was in possession of it 
than in the nine days it was awaiting inspection.
Ive not been provided with any evidence that conclusively shows the damage wasnt 
present before the car was moved to the road and whilst some of the damage was on the 
road side, other damage wasnt.
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mr P isnt responsible for the charges 
Novuna have applied and Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman