DRN-2878861
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
a claim made against his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B held a home insurance policy with LV. In November 2020, following a stay in hospital, 
Mr B noticed a leak coming from an upstairs dormer and contacted LV about it. Mr B was 
passed to the home emergency team and promised a call back about the issue the following 
day. 
Unfortunately Mr B didnt receive a call back and says he needed to chase LV several times 
to progress his claim. Mr B says he was told from his second call that the damage wouldnt 
be covered as storm damage, but he didnt agree so LV instructed a loss adjustor to visit his 
property and review the damage. Mr B says the loss adjuster was only able to take photos of 
the damage by leaning out of the window, however his report stated that the main cause of 
the external damage was wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
Mr B arranged for the external works to be carried out himself but remained unhappy so 
raised a complaint with LV. It didnt think it had acted unfairly in declining the claim. However 
it did agree with Mr B that it failed to call him back and didnt provide a good level of 
customer service, so it offered him £50 compensation for that error. Mr B didnt agree so he 
referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said that, even if she agreed there was storm damage, she was satisfied that the main cause 
of the damage was likely to be the poor condition and construction of the dormer  so she 
didnt think LV had acted unfairly in declining the claim. She also agreed that LV had 
provided a poor level of customer service, but she thought the £50 LV had offered Mr B was 
a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience it had caused in failing to return his calls. 
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Ive explained my reasons for this below. 
Mr B has commented on the general purpose of insurance and that he would expect it to pay 
out for an unexpected event. However each insurance policy on the market can cover 
different perils and have different exclusions so when considering whether an insurer acted 
fairly in declining a claim, we will focus on the terms of the individual policy.
Mr B believes LV has acted unfairly in declining his claim so, Ive considered whether LV has 
acted reasonably in saying Mr B isnt covered under his policy for the leaking dormer. Ive 
looked at Mr Bs policy documents to see what cover his policy provides. His policy covers 
damage caused by a list of events, such as storm. When we consider storm damage we ask 
three questions;
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage? 
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage? 
Its only if we can answer yes to all three questions that we can say the insurer is liable to 
pay the claim. 
Were there storm conditions at the time the problem occurred? 
As Mr B was in hospital immediately before he noticed the leak, it isnt clear what date there 
was a storm. As Mr B noticed the leak towards the end of November 2020, LV checked the 
weather report for that entire month and didnt find any record of a storm occurring. However 
Mr B has said that hes found there was a storm on 31 October 2020 which could have 
caused the damage as wind speeds of up to 46 miles per hour were recorded. So, based on 
what Ive seen, Ive no reason to doubt that there was a storm within a reasonable timeframe 
of when the damage was likely to have happened.
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage? 
From the photos Ive seen, it is clear that some cladding and the soffits from the dormer had 
come off. Ive considered the type of damage and on balance while it is possible that these 
could have blown away in a storm, I think it would be unusual for a properly fitted window to 
start having parts blow away in high winds. However, I have also gone on to consider the 
final question.
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage? 
Despite it being possible for a storm to blow away cladding and soffits from a window, I dont 
think its likely the damage was caused primarily by the storm and I wouldnt expect a 
properly fitted window to come apart in high winds. The surveyor that came to see the 
property noted that the cladding and soffits had been incorrectly applied using glue / mastic 
which is poor workmanship and that the flat felt roof on top of the dormer shows significant 
signs of deterioration in the form of cracking. We have also noted that water pools upon the 
roof as shown in the images and evidenced with the vegetation growth.. 
The policy terms states that it wont pay for any claim arising fromanything which happens 
gradually including deterioration or wear and tear and goes on to say that it also wont pay 
for any claim resulting from faulty design, materials or workmanship.
One of Mr Bs quotes for the repairs described the works he was quoting for as repairing 
storm damage however he doesnt comment on why he thought the damage was due to a 
storm  whether this was his professional opinion or whether it was simply what he had been 
told. And there is no comment on whether the dominant cause of the damage was wear and 
tear, faulty workmanship or the storm. The surveyor has provided reasoning and explained 
why he thinks the exclusion applies  so I find that report more persuasive than the 
quotation. And I find it more likely that a storm has highlighted the existing problems with the 
dormer, rather than being the main cause of the damage. So overall, Im not satisfied that Mr B has evidenced that a storm was the dominant cause of 
the leak, rather than it being due to the faulty workmanship and wear and tear as the 
surveyor has suggested. 
Customer service and claims handling
Mr B has said that he was told from his second call that the claim he was making wasnt 
storm damage and would like us to listen to the call recordings. However I dont doubt that 
Mr B was told that. Many insurance companies use computer systems to do an initial 
assessment of a claim  these are often called desktop assessments. And sometimes 
insurance companies wont need to appoint a loss adjuster to check whether there is a valid 
claim. These desktop assessments may, for example, look at whether any storm conditions 
were recorded during the period the property was likely to have been damaged. And if there 
had been no storm then it would be unlikely there would be a valid claim under the storm 
peril in a policy. So I dont think LV made a mistake in letting Mr B know early that it didnt 
think his claim was likely to be paid.
Mr B has also raised concerns about the way his claim was handled and the fact that LV 
failed to return his calls. LV has acknowledged this and there is no doubt that Mr B received 
poor customer service from LV after he registered his claim with it. But LV has apologised for 
this and sent him a cheque for £50 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him. So I have considered whether this is fair in the circumstances.
LV did fail to call Mr B back on at least one or two occasions and took longer to return a call 
than Mr B was expecting. I have no doubt that caused some stress and frustration at a time 
when Mr B had just returned from hospital. However LV has already apologised for failing to 
call back and ultimately Mr B was able to speak to someone about his claim fairly quickly.
There was also a delay in LV receiving the report from its loss adjuster, during which time Mr 
B was waiting to find out whether his claim would be covered. However when it did receive 
the report it seems that it contacted Mr B the same day to let him know the outcome of his 
claim. And that was within around three weeks of Mr B having raised his claim, which I dont 
consider to be an unreasonable amount of time to investigate a claim. 
So taking everything into account, I think the £50 offered to Mr B is broadly in line with what I 
would ask LV to pay and I wont be asking it to increase this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman