DRN-3879624
The complaint
Mr M complains Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly arranged him with two unaffordable loans.
What happened
Zopa Bank arranged the following loans for Mr M:
Loan Date of loan Capital 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentsTotal repayable 
value
Loan 1 October 2020 £3,000 24 £140 (approx.) £3,300 (approx.)
Loan 2 July 2021 £5,200 60 £120 (approx.) £7,200 (approx.)
Mr M complained to Zopa Bank in August 2022. He said had Zopa Bank completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified these loans were unaffordable 
for him. Zopa Bank issued its final response and didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr M 
brought it to our service for review. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it in part. She said Zopa Bank had 
completed proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision when arranging loan one. 
But she considered it hadnt completed proportionate checks or made a fair lending decision 
when arranging loan two. She said this because she considered proportionate checks ought 
reasonably to have identified loan two wasnt affordable for Mr M.
Mr M agreed with our investigators assessment; Zopa Bank responded and said it didnt 
accept the outcome. It said its checks were automated and the information it obtained as 
part of its checks didnt cause it concern; or suggested a manual intervention or further 
information was needed. It maintained its argument that it therefore made fair lending 
decisions when arranging both loans. 
Zopa Bank asked for an ombudsmans review, so Ive been passed the complaint to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. 
Zopa Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly arranged this lending 
for Mr M. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Zopa Bank arranged the 
lending required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed 
to assess Mr Ms ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without 
causing him financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks Zopa Bank needed to carry out, but the checks needed to be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the 
credit, as well as Mr Ms individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Zopa Bank to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks when going on to arrange the lending. 
This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Loan one
All parties appear to agree that loan on was fairly arranged. This has been Zopa Banks 
position throughout this complaint; and Mr M accepted our investigators opinion setting out 
why she considered loan one was fairly brought about. 
I wont set out in detail my review here except to say Im in agreement that the checks were 
proportionate which demonstrated this loan was affordable to Mr M; and I therefore consider 
Zopa Bank went on to make a fair lending decision when arranging loan one. 
Loan two
Zopa Bank says it completed the same level of checks when arranging loan two as loan one; 
and that these checks were proportionate and that it made a fair lending decision. Having 
carefully considered its argument, Im not persuaded it checks were proportionate in this 
instance; or that it went on to make a fair lending decision when arranging loan two. 
I say this because as our investigator has explained, Mr M had returned to Zopa Bank within 
nine months for further borrowing, with the same declared loan purpose to purchase a car.
Mr Ms declared income at this point had increased to around £37,000, which Zopa Bank 
verified to be accurate through an online verification tool. While I dont doubt this to have 
been inaccurate, it was a significant increase within such a short space of time  around 
45% of the income Zopa Bank had verified nine months previously. 
The credit check Zopa Bank completed also showed Mr M had opened another line of credit 
within the nine months, and that he was now utilising the overdraft facility on his current 
account. While all of his existing lines of credit were being maintained well, Mr Ms total 
indebtedness now stood at around £5,870 (which included just over £2,000 left to repay 
towards loan one). So, this was still an increase from the previous nine months, and I 
consider does suggests Mr M was beginning to become more reliant on credit. 
Taking this into account, together with the significant increase in Mr Ms income, and that 
Mr M was returning for further credit within such a short space of time for the same purpose, 
I consider these factors when reviewed together ought reasonably to have raised concerns 
for Zopa Bank. I consider at this point it ought to have looked to obtain a full understanding 
of Mr Ms financial situation. This would have included obtaining information about his 
regular non-discretionary spending, so it could be fully satisfied further borrowing would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr M.
As Zopa Banks checks didnt go this far, Im not persuaded its checks were proportionate 
based on the information it had obtained and knew about Mr Ms financial situation. Mr M has provided our service with bank statements covering the three months leading up to 
this loan. Zopa Bank could have looked to obtain information about Mr Ms non-discretionary 
expenditure by any means; but in the absence of any other information, I consider Mr Ms 
bank statements allow me to obtain an understanding of what proportionate checks would 
likely have shown Zopa Bank about his financial situation at the time of loan two. 
Mr Ms monthly income varies across the three months, which supports his testimony that he 
was self-employed and that his income did fluctuate on a month-by-month basis. Mr Ms 
average pay across these months is just above £1,900, considerably lower than the figure of 
around £2,600 which Zopa Bank used in its creditworthiness assessment. 
Mr Ms expenditure towards rent appears to be around the £300 he declared to Zopa Bank. 
His average payments towards other non-discretionary spending total around £1,000 which 
includes transactions towards usual household bills, food and travel. Mr Ms statements also 
show payments to what appear to be family and friends with references such as money 
borrowed, borrowed money and borrowed. Mr Ms account goes into an overdraft position 
in each of the months, however the income does bring the account back into credit. 
Taking into account Mr Ms average income and expenditure across these months, together 
with the regular payments to what appear to be friends and family as found above, its clear 
Mr M is left in a negative position each month as his expenditure totals an average of around 
£2,100 against his income of around £1,900. 
Had Zopa Bank completed reasonable and proportionate checks I consider it ought 
reasonably to have identified this lending wasnt affordable for Mr M. So, it therefore follows I 
consider Zopa Bank made an unfair lending decision when arranging loan two.
Putting things right
As Mr Ms had the use of the funds as a result of this lending, I think its fair that he repays 
the capital amount borrowed. But Mr M has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have been 
brought about. So, I think Mr M has lost out and Zopa Bank Limited should put things right 
by taking the following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan two from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr M should then be deducted from the new starting balance. 
a. If the payments Mr M has made total more than the amount he was originally 
lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to 
him, together with 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, 
from the date they were paid by Mr M to the date the complaint is settled.
b. If after the adjustments have been made there is still a balance to pay Zopa 
Bank Limited should discuss arranging a suitable/affordable payment 
arrangement with Mr M for the remaining balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of loan 
two once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa Bank Limited to deduct tax from this interest. Zopa 
Bank Limited should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks 
for one.
Mr M has made us aware that he has experienced problems trying to set up an agreeable 
payment arrangement with Zopa Bank Limited. I would remind Zopa Bank Limited of its 
obligation to treat Mr M fairly and sympathetically when communicating with him and looking 
to arrange repayment of any outstanding balance.My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about Zopa Bank Limited and direct it to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman