DRN-4420487
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that they didnt have the cover they thought they had after Lloyds 
Bank PLC changed the travel insurance provider for the policy thats linked to their packaged 
bank account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In November 2021 Lloyds changed travel insurance providers and the new policy paid 
the Travel Delay benefit only if Mr and Mrs G had travelled to their point of departure and 
checked in. The policy provided by the previous insurer did not include this stipulation. 
Mr and Mrs G think Lloyds should have done more to bring this limitation to their 
attention. And, if it had done so, they might have sought alternative cover elsewhere 
when they booked a holiday in December 2022. On the day in June 2023 when they 
were due to travel, their flight was cancelled and their subsequent travel insurance claim 
was declined because they had not checked in at their departure point.
Lloyds said it wrote to Mr and Mrs G ahead of the policy changes and told them to read 
the full terms and conditions, which explained what cover was provided. They were also 
sent an Annual Eligibility Statement in November 2022 which encouraged them to review 
the policy terms and conditions to check it was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs G remained 
unhappy and asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had done enough to make Mr and Mrs G aware of the 
changes and didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G 
didnt accept this, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that Lloyds did enough here to notify Mr and 
Mrs G about the changes. I note, in particular that:
These days its not unusual for travel insurance to include this particular limitation, so I 
wouldnt usually expect it to be specifically drawn to a policyholders attention.
The September 2021 mailing which explained about the change in insurance provider 
encourages Mr and Mrs G to read the terms and conditions enclosed for full details and 
exclusions and that some of the changes might affect what theyre covered for. This 
mailing was emailed to Mr G and theres no dispute that he received it. The terms and 
conditions set out clearly when the Travel Delay benefit will be paid.
Lloyds records indicate it sent an Annual Eligibility Statement to Mr G, by email, in 
November 2022 which was before he booked the holiday that led to the insurance claim. 
Mr G says he didnt receive this, but he seems to have received all the other emails the 
bank has sent him about policy changes as well as previous and subsequent Annual 
Eligibility Statements. And he seems aware that the latter should be sent each year. So if 
he didnt receive this I wonder why he didnt query this with the bank. The November 
2022 Annual Eligibility Statement told Mr G to check the travel insurance cover was still 
right for him and noted that the terms and conditions contained the full policy details. The 
Travel Delay limitation isnt mentioned in the Main exclusions and requirements to be 
able to make a claim section of this statement because, as Ive already noted, this is 
now a fairly standard limitation with travel insurance policies so I wouldnt expect it to be 
drawn specifically to Mr and Mrs Gs attention. The terms and conditions set out clearly 
when the Travel Delay benefit will be paid.
Mr and Mrs G have noted that a mailing sent to them in October 2023 specifically 
mentioned the need to travel to the departure point in order to benefit from the Travel 
Delay benefit. But, having read this entire document, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Gs 
suggestion that this was included in order to make up for the fact this limitation hadnt 
been drawn to their attention explicitly in the earlier updates.
The policy changes took effect in November 2021 and it was not until December 2022 
(over a year later) that Mr and Mrs G booked their holiday which was to take place in 
June 2023. I think Mr and Mrs G had ample chance to check the new policy terms and 
conditions to ensure it met their needs.
With all of the above in mind, I cant fairly instruct Lloyds to cover the losses Mr and Mrs G 
have claimed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman