DRN-4087418
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs response to a breach of contract claim he raised 
against the bank under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). The claim relates to services provided by a third 
party C in connection with Mr Ms daughters wedding.
What happened
Ms M entered into an agreement with C, a wedding venue provider. Mr M made part-
payment for those arrangements using his Lloyds Bank credit card. Unfortunately, the 
wedding didnt run as smoothly as planned and Ms M complained to C, citing various issues 
with which she was dissatisfied. These included concerns over accommodation, facilities, 
entertainment and general levels of service. As I understand it, C offered to refund £250. 
Mr M says Ms M accepted this sum as part, rather than full settlement, as in their view it only 
addressed the issues relating to accommodation.
Mr M turned to Lloyds Bank, making a section 75 claim for breach of contract on Cs part as 
he didnt think Cs proposal went far enough. Lloyds Bank declined the claim citing the 
settlement from C. Mr M maintained that this sum was insufficient. He said he was seeking a 
refund of £500 in respect of his card payment of £3,414.
In response, Lloyds Bank credited Mr Ms account with £500. However, Mr M referred 
matters to us saying this was a goodwill gesture separate from the claim response.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Lloyds Bank needed to do anything further to resolve 
matters. She didnt think there was enough evidence to support a claim in misrepresentation 
or breach of contract, as is necessary under section 75. The investigator also felt Lloyds Ban 
had in any event treated Mr M fairly by paying him the £500 hed asked for in resolution.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for this review. He believes 
he has sufficient grounds for a claim and that Lloyds Banks decision not to agree it was ill-
founded. He adds that the payment the bank made was ex gratia and by definition separate 
from the claim itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M has his own thoughts about the strength of his claim. He says, for 
example, that Cs apologies for poor service should translate to a financial settlement or are 
otherwise meaningless. For the record, I dont share this view. That a planned event doesnt 
go entirely as one had hoped doesnt in itself meet the standard set in the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) that a service provider has failed to exercise reasonable skill and care in 
performance of the service contract.
It's possible such a claim could be made. But based on the explanatory notes to the CRA, 
the test is based on the way in which the service was carried out, rather than the end result. 
Im not persuaded the case is fully made out that many of the reasons for dissatisfaction 
cited in Ms Ms correspondence with C meet the threshold for a breach of contract.
More fundamentally, there is also the question of whether Mr M is able to claim against 
Lloyds Bank under section 75 at all. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was party to the 
contract with C. He provided part of the consideration for the arrangements by making the 
payments he did. But Ms Ms correspondence indicates that it was she that did the wedding 
planning, and she is the party named on the invoice from C.
Neither of these are conclusive evidence of the contract itself. Nevertheless, my 
understanding of the operation of section 75 is that based on the available evidence Mr M 
isnt sufficiently closely connected to the arrangements for C to adopt any contractual 
obligation towards him in terms of its performance. That Ms M might have such a claim 
doesnt provide Mr M with the same right.
Im also not persuaded by Mr Ms argument that Lloyds Banks payment to him of £500 
stands separate to the claim. I see no particular reason to find it was anything other than a 
genuine attempt to bring the dispute to resolution in response to his request that the bank 
refund him this amount. From what I can see, the banks payment (although not described in 
its letter as ex gratia) meets the usual legal definition of a payment made voluntarily without 
recognition of any liability.
Taking all of this into account, Im not minded to require Lloyds Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman