DRN-1623248
The complaint
Mr C has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him an income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 1998, at around the same time that it provided him with a mortgage, RBS sold Mr C an 
income protection insurance policy. The policy started in 1999. The policy, after a deferred 
period of 12 months, would pay Mr C a regular benefit in the event he was unable to perform 
his occupation due to illness or injury. 
In 2017, Mr Cs mortgage ended.
In 2019, with the policy still in force, Mr C complained to RBS that the policy had been mis-
sold. He said that he understood the policy had been compulsory to obtain his mortgage. He 
further said that the policy exclusions hadnt been properly explained to him, meaning that 
he was unable to make an informed decision as to whether the policy was appropriate for 
him. He wanted RBS to refund all the premiums hed paid for the policy, plus interest. 
RBS didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that Mr C was led to believe 
the policy was necessary to obtain his mortgage. It was satisfied that the policy was suitable 
for his needs and would have paid benefit in the event hed needed to make a claim. 
Mr C was unhappy at RBSs response. He referred the complaint to us. He said he hadnt 
wanted or needed the cover, particularly as his employer offered six months full sickness 
pay followed by six months half pay. He considered that the policy appeared to have been 
initiated by his mortgage and therefore should have stopped, or at least been reviewed, at 
the time his mortgage ended in 2017. He considered that even if he wasnt entitled to a full 
refund of premiums he should at least be entitled to a refund of premiums from the time his 
mortgage ended. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the policy was suitable for Mr C and there was no indication that he had to take it out as 
a condition of the mortgage. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He pointed out that at around the same time 
RBS had sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which was a condition of his 
mortgage and he therefore questioned why he should have needed the income protection 
insurance policy also. He maintained he hadnt wanted the policy and that hed trusted RBS 
but that it hadnt acted in his best interests. He pointed to press coverage of a complaint 
which he believed was similar to his own and in which the ombudsman had found in favour 
of the complainant. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence from the time of sale is limited. However, I dont find that surprising given the 
passage of time. RBS has been able to provide the mortgage offer document, the application 
form for the policy and details of the policy. 
The application form, which would have been completed after a discussion between Mr C 
and an adviser, recorded that Mr C was single, earned £19,000 a year, and planned to retire 
at 65. He applied for a policy which provided an annual benefit of £8,036 after a deferred 
period of 52 weeks. The application form, which Mr C signed, stated that the applicant 
should also have read the appropriate product literature and I consider it likely that this 
would have been given to Mr C by the adviser. 
I consider the advisers recommendation to take out such a policy was appropriate for Mr C 
who was about to enter into a mortgage, which is a significant long-term financial 
commitment. The policy would provide cover in the event he was incapacitated over a long-
term. The benefit level was appropriate given his level of earnings. The deferred period of 52 
weeks was appropriate given that he said his employer would have provided sick pay for the 
first 12 months that he was unable to work.
Mr C has questioned why he needed the income protection insurance policy given that RBS 
had also sold him a PPI policy. However, the two policies serve a different purpose. The PPI 
policy was directly linked to the mortgage and would have met the regular mortgage 
payments in the event that Mr C was incapacitated, but only for a limited period (usually 
twelve months). The income protection insurance policy was designed to give Mr C a 
replacement income in the event he was incapacitated over a longer period. I understand 
that RBS has invited Mr C to make a separate complaint about the sale of the PPI policy 
should he wish. 
The mortgage offer document confirms that the only connected insurance policies which Mr 
C had to take out were the PPI policy and buildings and contents insurance. There is no 
mention of the income protection policy. 
The income protection policy may have been sold at the same time as the mortgage but I 
dont find this unusual. RBA may well have encouraged Mr C to undergo a review of his 
financial affairs given that he was about to take on a significant financial commitment. That 
doesnt mean that the mortgage offer was dependent on him taking out the income 
protection policy. It is a standalone product which was designed to run until his planned 
retirement age. 
Mr C has referred to an ombudsmans decision on another complaint. However, we judge 
each case on its own merits. I have looked at the other case and am satisfied the 
circumstances are not the same as this case. 
Overall, I consider that the income protection policy was suitable for Mr C and I can see no 
evidence that he was led to believe it was compulsory for the purposes of his mortgage. I 
consider that Mr C likely made an informed decision to take out the policy after being 
recommended to do so by the adviser. I consider that the policy would have paid benefit if 
Mr C had ever needed to make a claim. This being the case, I see no grounds for saying he 
should be awarded a refund of his premiums.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman