DRN-3344651
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC held incorrect data on their systems, which he 
believes may have resulted in his personal information being shared with unknown parties. 
Mr Q has raised several concerns with Barclays. But to be clear, this decision will focus 
solely on the above complaint point. Mr Q has requested this be referenced under his own 
personal reference of B2.
What happened
Mr Q banks with Barclays. In June 2021 he attended a Barclays branch to hand over some 
hand-written correspondence. Barclays wrote back to Mr Q on the same day, and sent their 
letter in an envelope which had Mr Qs address written on it by hand. But unfortunately, the 
postcode written on the envelope was incorrect, so Mr Q complained. He said he was 
unhappy that Barclays held incorrect information for him and was concerned that his data 
may have fallen into the wrong hands.
Shortly after complaining to Barclays, Mr Q brought his complaint to our service, and we 
reached out to Barclays to ask for their final response on the matter. In summary, Barclays 
said theyd requested further information from Mr Q about the incorrect data he believed they 
held, but theyd received insufficient information to consider his complaint. They did say they 
held no record of sending anything to a wrong address. They also confirmed that the 
address they hold on record for Mr Q is the correct one. 
An investigator considered Mr Qs complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
accepted Barclays may have accidentally written an incorrect postcode on the envelope, but 
she was satisfied this was a mistake, and that the details Barclays held on file for Mr Q were 
correct. So she didnt ask them to do anything further. But Mr Q remained unhappy, and said 
he wants Barclays to pay for him to complete his own investigation, and compensate him for 
the distress caused. 
As an agreement between the parties has not been reached, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays say they have no record of sending a letter to an incorrect address. But while I 
accept there may be nothing on Barclays records to evidence this, as the address was 
hand-written on the envelope, I think its unlikely Barclays would have recorded this, and its 
more likely their systems would hold records about the content of the letter contained within 
the envelope instead.  
Barclays have provided their file on Mr Qs complaint, along with details of the address 
information they hold for him. And the address details theyve provided matches that which 
Mr Q has provided. Ive also seen copies of bank statements dated 2017 (prior to letter being 
sent with the incorrect postcode); and a copy of the final response letter sent to Mr Q in 
November 2021 (after the letter with the incorrect postcode); and I can see that both sets of 
documentation contain Mr Qs correct postcode. So, Im satisfied that the letter Mr Q 
received containing the incorrect postcode was most likely a result of human error, and that 
the information Barclays holds for Mr Q is accurate. 
Mr Q says he is concerned other correspondence may have been sent to unknown third 
parties, and he wants Barclays to pay for him to conduct his own investigation into the 
matter. But Ive not been presented with any evidence to suggest there have been any 
instances of information being sent to an incorrect address. And the one letter that did 
contain the incorrect postcode, seems to have arrived securely at Mr Qs address, 
notwithstanding the error. 
So, while I appreciate this has been a frustrating matter for Mr Q; and it seems there was a 
small error on Barclays part, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr Q has 
experienced a loss. So, for this reason, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman