DRN-2430859
The complaint
Mr K is complaining about Vanguard Asset Management Ltd because of the way it handled a 
request to transfer his ISA arrangements from another provider. Mr K is unhappy with the 
time it took to process the transfer, and with the service he received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties as these were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I wont repeat them again here. Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
In my provisional decision, I informed both parties that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. In brief, I didnt think Vanguard had unreasonably delayed Mr Ks transfer. And it 
had completed the transfer within its 30 business day guidance.
Vanguard had nothing further to add. Mr K disagreed with my provisional findings. In 
summary, he wanted me to answer the following questions:
Where can he find the documentation or reference to the government published 
transfer times being guidelines;
How has the ombudsman come to the conclusion they are guidelines only;
How can our service support Vanguard having on its website, and submitting as part 
of its defence, 30 business days when all other documentation refers to calendar 
days.
Mr K provided links to the ISA manager guidance and other information about the transfer 
process for my reference.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to make clear that we are an informal dispute resolution service. I accept 
Mr K may want answers to every question hes asked but Im not required to provide 
answers to everything. The issue in this complaint is whether Vanguard delayed the transfer 
of his stocks and shares ISA and if it did, what redress is payable. That is what my findings 
concentrate on.
I explained my reasons for not upholding this complaint in detail to both parties in my 
provisional decision. Ill now set out my reasons in summary as follows:
Vanguard's website says it expects stocks and shares ISA transfers to take 
30 business days  Im satisfied this information was readily available to Mr K at the 
start of the transfer process. Im satisfied Vanguard processed the transfer within this 
timescale, given it was completed within 28 business days;
I dont think Vanguard caused unreasonable delays to the transfer process. It 
progressed Mr Ks transfer within its own service standards and also proactively 
chased the ceding provider as issues that could delay the process arose;
Vanguard kept Mr K reasonably informed of the actions it was taking throughout the 
process. And the evidence doesnt support that it ignored Mr Ks requests for 
updates;
I accept there were some communication issues between the ISA providers which 
led to Vanguards first transfer request not being received by the ceding provider. But 
I consider Vanguard acted in a reasonably timely manner to resolve these issues and 
this did lead to the transfer being completed within its business timescales; 
Further, when Vanguard chased matters with the ceding provider when prompted to 
do so by its internal ten day trigger, it took immediate steps such as arranging for the 
transfer to be completed manually rather than electronically. In the end it was 
transferred electronically but only after the ceding provider confirmed it could 
progress Mr Ks transfer request;
Given Vanguard will be dealing with a large number of transactions every day, I dont 
think it can be expected to act immediately on the requests of Mr K. And I dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to wait to chase the ceding provider until its own internal 
system flagged it to do so;
Mr K said as he liquidated his shares into cash before the transfer, it shouldve been 
completed more in line with cash ISA timescale of 15 business days. But I dont think 
Vanguard offered any reassurances to Mr K that this would be the case;
I also note that whilst the transfer was outside the 30 calendar day timescale referred 
to on a government website, I think this is guidance and isnt prescriptive as Mr K 
was suggesting it was.
Whilst Ive taken Mr Ks further submissions and evidence into account, I see no reason to 
depart from the reasons for not upholding this complaint, which Ive set out above and 
reflects those set out in my provisional decision.
In terms of the questions Mr K has asked me, as Ive said above, Im not required to do this. 
My role is to decide whether Vanguard have done something wrong and if so, how it needs 
to put things right. But in respect of the general point hes making  whether it was, or should 
be, mandatory for Vanguard to complete the transfer within 30 calendar days as set out on 
the government website, I dont think it was. There is nothing in the guidance he points to for 
ISA managers to complete the process within 30 calendar days.
At the same time, I think the guidance set out on the government website should be followed 
where possible. And if I found Vanguard had caused any unreasonable delays, whether or 
not the transfer was completed within the government guidance or its own business 
timescales, I could still uphold this complaint. But in this particular case, I dont think the 
evidence supports that Vanguard unreasonably delayed the transfer and Ive given my 
reasons for this.
In respect of the 30 business days Vanguard has on its website, our service generally takes 
the view it is up to financial businesses to decide on their terms of business and its policies. 
Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance with its internal 
guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere. And in this case, Vanguard 
did let Mr K know, at the very start of the process, how long it could take to transfer his ISA. 
It said it could be 30 business days, or longer in some cases. Im satisfied that the transfer 
was completed in this time. I also think Vanguard acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
processed Mr Ks transfer request.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman