DRN-3416567
The complaint
Mr A complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to terminate his income protection claim.
 
What happened
Mr A holds an income protection policy, the aim of which is to pay benefit if he cant work 
because of illness or injury. In 2019, Mr A stopped work due to a number of health problems. 
He made a claim, which Unum accepted. 
Then in 2021, Unum reviewed the claim. After doing so, it concluded that Mr A no longer met 
the policy definition of incapacity. It therefore terminated the claim as of April 2021. Unhappy 
with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unums claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy pays benefit in the event of incapacity. It defines this as:
you cannot perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation because of 
your illness or injury.
Unum had initially accepted the claim (and continued to do so at reviews) because Mr As 
functioning had been impacted by pulmonary embolism, diabetes and cancer. 
I understand Mr A had successful surgery for his cancer diagnosis. In respect of Mr As 
pulmonary embolism, he was reviewed by a haematologist in early 2020 and put on blood 
thinners. At the time, he described brain fog and fatigue. The haematologist thought the 
pulmonary embolism may be contributing to his symptoms, though it was thought Mr As 
diabetes and surgical recovery were also contributing.
Mr A was reviewed by his GP throughout 2020. In June 2020, Mr A thought his blood sugar 
readings were more controlled, and it was noted he was running approximately 20 miles per 
week. Then in August 2020, Mr A reported feeling better overall, but could still feel tired. The 
GP recorded that Mr A had been taking on bits of work, but could struggle. Mr A continued to 
be signed off due to cancer. In September 2020, the GP said that Mr A had a slow road to 
recovery, and in general he was getting better but found that his neuropathy in his hands 
and feet were worse. 
I see that in December 2020, Mr A provided Unum with some information relating to his 
neuropathy. He said he experienced a strong burning feeling in his feet and calves in the 
evenings, which was severe but alleviated by exercise. 
In January 2021, Mr A advised Unum that his blood sugar levels had come down, and he 
was much closer to well-controlled diabetes. Also in January 2021, Mr As GP continued to 
sign him off work until the end of February 2021. However, the GP did ask Mr A to discuss 
the option of a staged return to work with his employer/occupational health.
Mr A is self-employed, and so he wasnt able to have such a discussion. Instead, the 
decision over whether or not to carry out a phased return to work was down to him. 
I recognise that Mr A has had a really difficult few years, with a number of health issues. I 
know he doesnt think he was well enough to return to work at the time Unum terminated the 
claim. However, the medical evidence supports that Mr As health conditions had improved. 
Although he continued to experience neuropathy, this was mainly in the evenings. And the 
GP thought Mr A should discuss a staged return to work in January 2021. On balance, I 
therefore find that it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr A no longer met the policy 
definition of incapacity when it terminated the claim.
I see that Unum gave Mr A a months notice, to allow him to commence a phased return to 
work. I think that was fair. 
After Unum terminated Mr As claim, he provided a letter from his GP in May 2021. The GP 
said he supported a phased return to work for Mr A. The GP said Mr A had ongoing fatigue 
following his cancer diagnosis, though, now his physical symptoms were improving, Mr A 
was starting to come to terms with the mental toll taken on him. The GP explained he had 
started Mr A on medication that day, and thought he should remain off work until his body 
gets used to his antidepressant medication and he starts his counselling. The GP suggested 
a prolonged phased return to work for Mr A. 
As our investigator has pointed out, the medical evidence doesnt support that Mr As mental 
health prevented him from working before Unum terminated the claim. The GP also hasnt 
explained why Mr A couldnt work whilst he was taking antidepressant medication and 
having counselling. So I dont find that this information ought to have altered Unums 
decision.
Mr A has also complained about the time taken for Unum to initially accept his claim. 
After receiving Mr As completed claim form, Unum requested more information from Mr As 
GP on 1 August 2019. This wasnt received until September 2019. Unum then decided to 
accept the claim on 26 September 2019, and advised Mr A of this. However, it explained that 
it needed some further information regarding Mr As income. Once this was received, the 
claim was accepted.
I agree with our investigator that Unum didnt cause any avoidable delays in assessing 
Mr As claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman