DRN-3983719
The complaint
R, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK 
Plc in settlement of its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr G, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
R runs a guest house which employs several staff. 
It made a claim to AXA on 25 March 2020 after the business was affected by Covid-19 
lockdown restrictions. It furloughed some staff (granted them temporary leave of absence).
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority announced its intention to obtain a court 
declaration aimed at resolving the uncertainty around the validity of many business 
interruption insurance claims (the test case). 
In May 2020 AXA declined the claim. It said R hadnt shown its business interruption losses 
had been caused by an outbreak of Covid-19 within 25 miles of the insured premises.
In January 2021 the Supreme Court issued its judgment in the test case. Later that month 
AXA told R it would review its claim in the light of the judgment in the test case. On 
17 February 2021 it paid R an interim settlement of £12,500. It made a further payment of 
£12,500 on 12 January 2022 and the balance of £19,533.26 on 28 March 2022. 
AXA deducted from the claim settlement £16,417.87 being the amount of furlough payments 
that R had received from the Government. Mr G didnt think that was fair. AXA said it was 
entitled to make such a deduction under the terms of the policy.
Mr G complained about the delay in dealing with Rs claim. He said hed suffered 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience as a result. He also said R had had to take a bounce 
back loan (BBL) of £20,000 in October 2020 due to the delay in paying the claim.
AXA said it hadnt been in a position to settle the claim until the conclusion of the test case in 
January 2021.
R brought its complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Rs business.  Since AXA has now accepted Rs claim, the issue for me to decide is whether 
AXA should compensate it for the delay in paying the claim and whether its fair and 
reasonable to deduct from the claim settlement the amount R received from the Government 
in respect of furlough payments. 
Delays
Ive noted AXAs point that it felt it needed to wait until the outcome of the test case but I am 
not persuaded by it. This delay in dealing with business interruption insurance claims was 
permitted under the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority to insurers at the 
time but not required by law. Additionally, the guidance did not suggest that, for customers 
whose claims were found to have been incorrectly declined, interest should not be awarded. 
I recognise that there was uncertainty about the interpretation of the wording in certain 
policies, including ones like Rs. which required the loss to have been caused by an outbreak 
of Covid-19 within a specified distance of the premises. However, I think it was always open 
for AXA to have accepted the claim sooner and ultimately the Supreme Court found that 
AXAs initial decision not to provide cover was incorrect. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that AXA has had the benefit of the money it should have 
paid R. I believe it is fair and reasonable to add interest on to the settlement amount to 
compensate R for its loss.
The rules governing this service allow me to make, amongst other things, a money and 
interest award for what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in 
favour of the complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think is fair 
compensation to put R back in the position it would have been in if AXA hadnt turned down 
its claim at first. I acknowledge that my decision might be different from one which a court 
might make. But in this case I think it is fair and reasonable to do so.
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer should wait for 
losses to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable for an 
insurer to wait for the end of an indemnity period before making any settlement. Generally 
speaking, I would expect regular monthly payments to be made. 
It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess a claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this for a claim of this nature would be around 
two months from when R first made its claim on 25 March 2020 in order to wait for losses to 
accrue and to give AXA a reasonable amount of time to assess the claim. I dont consider 
the bringing of the test case alters this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently think it is fair and reasonable that AXA should add interest to the first months loss 
from two months after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months after 
the claim was made and so on until 1 October 2020.
On 2 October 2020 R took out a BBL of £20,000. No interest is charged on the BBL for the 
first year and thereafter it is charged at 2.5%. As this loan formed part of the money R 
should have received from AXA, I dont think R was without the settlement funds from 2 
October 2020 until the amount of the settlement based on monthly interim payments as set 
out above exceeded the £20,000 received via the BBL or until 2 October 2021 when interest 
was payable on the BBL whichever is the sooner. So, no interest is payable for this period.
Thereafter AXA should continue to pay continue to pay interest on subsequent months 
losses on the date that that they should have been paid to the date of settlement.
This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple a year.
However, AXA is entitled to deduct from this interest calculation any interest that would be 
payable on the sum of Rs BBL from 2 October 2021 until the date of final settlement of the 
claim. Instead AXA should pay R the cost of its borrowing under the BBL up to the date of 
final settlement of its claim. AXA is also entitled to deduct the two interim payments of £12,500 each from the amount interest is payable on, in each case from the date that such 
interim settlements were made. 
Compensation
I recognise Mr Gs frustration at the time taken by AXA to pay Rs claim. However, R is the 
eligible complainant in this case as opposed to Mr G. So, I can only consider the impact of 
AXAs actions on R as a limited company and not on Mr G as a director. AXA says it has 
already paid R £75 compensation for the delay. I currently think a further £125 for the 
inconvenience of R having to apply for the BBL and chase the progress of the claim would 
be reasonable in the circumstances.
Furlough payments
The terms and conditions of Rs policy say that for business interruption claims AXA will pay 
for loss of trading profit due to a reduction in turnover and an increase in the cost of working 
less any sums saved during the Indemnity Period in respect of the charges and expenses 
of the Business payable out of Trading Profit.
I think the above wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved during the 
indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. 
The wages R paid its staff during lockdown were a charge and expense of the business.
Under the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (commonly referred to as the furlough 
scheme) employers such as R who chose to pay the full amount of their employees normal 
wages when they couldnt work during lockdown could apply for a grant from the 
Government to cover a percentage of their wages bill. I understand that R received 
£16,417.87 in respect of a grant under this scheme which it does not have to repay. That 
represents a saving on its wages bill and that in turn is a saving in the charges and 
expenses of the business. It doesnt seem fair to me to require an insurer to pay for an 
expense of a business for which the business has already been compensated from 
elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the CJRS were to be taken into account when calculating the sums recoverable under 
the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for furlough should be 
taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish the insured loss. 
So, I think AXA was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount R received in 
respect of furlough payments from its settlement of Rs business interruption claim.
In response AXA said it didnt wish to make any further comments on the compensation for 
inconvenience but it did object to the requirement to pay interest on the settlement. This 
was because:
1. It thought I didnt have the power to make a freestanding interest award under the 
statute and regulation governing this service and indeed that I was precluded from 
making such award under that statute and regulation.
2. In the circumstances of this case it thought an interest award was neither fair nor 
reasonable. It also didnt think it was compliant with this services own stated 
approach to interest awards.Mr G said the compensation of £75 previously paid by AXA didnt relate to the time and 
effort hed spent on the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Largely speaking this complaint now comes down to whether it is appropriate for AXA to 
compensate R for not having money it would otherwise have had if its claim had been settled 
at the time it was made in 2020.
The FCA Handbook section 3.7 outlines the type of awards an Ombudsman can make. This 
includes amongst other money awards and interest awards. With regard to an interest award 
the rules state:
an interest award may provide for the amount payable under the money award to bear 
interest at a rate and as from a date specified in the award.
That means an interest award can only be awarded if theres a money award on which the 
interest will be payable. That doesnt apply here as the claim was settled before the 
complaint was referred to this service. 
However regarding money awards the rules state that an Ombudsman can award such 
amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for various things including 
financial loss whether or not a court would award compensation. In this case I think R has 
suffered a financial loss because of the delay in settling its claim. Im not adding interest to 
an award but rather in this case interest is the money award.
The COVID-19 pandemic and surrounding circumstances presented a novel situation for 
insurers. And I recognise that there was some uncertainty about whether the wording of 
certain types of clause would cover claims. This was part of the reason for the FCA test 
case. But whilst the court judgments provided clarity, this does not mean AXA was unable to 
have reached a different conclusion to the one it did prior to the judgments. Ultimately, the 
decision it reached on Rs claim in 2020 was shown to have been incorrect. And as a result 
of this incorrect decision R was left without the settlement of its claim when it would 
otherwise have received this. 
I note AXAs comments over the guidance for firms about the FCA test case issued by the 
FCA. Whilst I note that this indicates insurers might be able to wait until the conclusion of the 
court case, no mention was made in relation to compensating customers who then had to 
wait for a decision on their claim. 
The role of the Ombudsman Service where consideration of a complaint identifies, for 
example, that an insurer has reached the incorrect decision on a claim, is to put the 
complainant back in the position it would have been in had the correct decision been made. 
So, my aim is to try to put the parties back in the position they would have been in had AXA 
met Rs claim in 2020. In attempting to put the parties back in the position they would have 
been in, this service considers that if a party has been left without funds they ought to have 
had, interest should be paid on this sum. The level of this interest takes into account the fact 
that the complainant will have been denied opportunities to use the money theyve been 
without. And the level of interest we tend to award is 8% simple per annum, which is in line 
with the rate awarded on judgment debts. I recognise that Mr G spent a lot of time and effort on pursuing Rs claim. As explained in my 
provisional findings R is the eligible complainant in this case as opposed to Mr G. I remain of 
the opinion that payment of a further £125 is fair to compensate R for the inconvenience of 
having to apply for the BBL and chase the progress of the claim.
Overall, having carefully considered the responses to my provisional findings, for the 
reasons set out above I see no reason to change them.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should add interest to Rs first months loss from two months 
after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months after the claim was 
made and so on until 1 October 2020.
On 2 October 2020 R took out a BBL of £20,000. No interest is charged on the BBL for the 
first year and thereafter it is charged at 2.5%. As this loan formed part of the money R 
should have received from AXA, I dont think R was without the settlement funds from 2 
October 2020 until the amount of the settlement based on monthly interim payments as set 
out above exceeded the £20,000 received via the BBL or until 2 October 2021 when interest 
was payable on the BBL whichever is the sooner. So, no interest is payable for this period.
Thereafter AXA should continue to pay continue to pay interest on subsequent months 
losses on the date that that they should have been paid to the date of settlement.
This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple a year.
However, AXA is entitled to deduct from this interest calculation any interest that would be 
payable on the sum of Rs BBL from 2 October 2021 until the date of final settlement of the 
claim. Instead AXA should pay R the cost of its borrowing under the BBL up to the date of 
final settlement of its claim. AXA is also entitled to deduct the two interim payments of 
£12,500 each from the amount interest is payable on, in each case from the date that such 
interim settlements were made. 
It should also pay R compensation of £125 for inconvenience caused to it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay R the following amounts: 
1. interest calculated as set out above; and
2. £125 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman