DRN-3872556
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged, so he claimed on his policy with Skyfire. Skyfire accepted the 
claim and deemed Mr Ss car as what is known as a total loss. Because of this Skyfire said 
it would record the loss accordingly and offered Mr S £3,830 as the market value of his car. 
Mr S didnt think Skyfire had offered enough for the market value of his car. He also said he 
had uninsured losses he wished to claim. Skyfire said it would pass his details to the insurer 
who covered the legal expenses part of his policy to look at recovering his uninsured losses. 
It also reviewed the valuation of the car and maintained its position that its offer was fair. 
Skyfire said it had based the valuation on three motor valuation guides and offered the 
highest of all three guides. 
Mr S didnt agree and complained, he said the value was too low and there had been delays 
in handling his claim. He specifically referred to a delay in passing his details to the legal 
expenses insurer. He also said the wrong salvage category had been applied to the car and 
that it had also been applied to his new car incorrectly. 
Skyfire reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It found that the wrong salvage code 
had been applied to the car and that it had also applied a salvage code to Mr Ss registration 
number, which hed assigned to his new car and so the salvage code had incorrectly been 
applied to that car as well. Skyfire said it had amended its records as well as external ones. 
It said the salvage marker error shouldnt have any impact on Mr S unless he had sold or 
MOTd the cars while the incorrect salvage code was on it, but Skyfire did offer 
compensation for the error. Skyfire also acknowledged the delay in passing his details to the 
legal expenses insurer. In total Skyfire offered £150 compensation for the poor claim 
handling but maintained the valuation was fair. As Mr S didnt agree he referred the 
complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that Skyfire had made errors in handling Mr Ss claim, specifically the salvage code, poor 
claim handling and the delay in the referral to the legal expenses insurer. However, she 
thought £150 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She also found 
that Skyfires valuation of Mr Ss car was fair as it was within the range of the trade guides 
we use. Mr S didnt agree, he said the compensation wasnt enough and he hadnt received 
any compensation from Skyfire. He also repeated his previous complaint points to show why 
he didnt agree. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say that if Skyfire deem his car a total loss, it will 
pay him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your car with one 
of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of 
the accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
The four motor valuation guides we use provided values of £3,278, £3,491, £3,786 and 
£3,830. Our general approach to motor valuations complaints would be to say if an insurers 
valuation is within the range of these guides and there isnt other evidence to suggest a 
different value, then wed likely say their valuation is fair and reasonable. In Mr Ss complaint 
Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest a different valuation for his car 
would be fair. Considering Skyfires offer is at the top of the range of guides, Im satisfied 
Skyfire has acted fairly and reasonably when valuing Mr Ss car. 
However, I have also considered the poor claim handling by Skyfire. Its disappointing to see 
the wrong salvage code was applied to Mr Ss car as it applied a salvage code B rather 
than an N. Skyfire also applied a salvage code to completely the wrong car. While it is 
disappointing this happened, Ive also noticed Skyfire quickly resolved it when it became 
aware of the issue and offered Mr S compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused. 
Skyfire also acknowledged its error in handling Mr Ss claim and not passing his details onto 
the legal expenses insurer when it should have. When considering Mr Ss complaint, Ive 
taken into account all the failings and delays by Skyfire. And while I understand Mr Ss 
frustration, Im satisfied that £150 is fair and reasonably compensation for them. Ive noted 
that Mr S has said he hasnt received the compensation, therefore Skyfire need to pay Mr S 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above. My final decision is that £3,830 is a fair and reasonable 
valuation. Skyfire Insurance Company Limited also need to pay Mr S £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman