DRN-3028371
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the exchange rate applied to a transaction she made with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. She said she was expecting it to be much cheaper, and was distressed to 
find out how much shed been charged.
What happened
Mrs S said that she made a large international payment, using Barclays to make the transfer 
and currency exchange. She said that she wasnt given any information before the transfer 
about how much this would cost. And she said that it was over £500 more than she was 
expecting. She said if shed known this, shed have found another way to make the payment.
Mrs S said she hadnt done an international transfer before. So she felt she should have 
been advised not to make the transfer when the rates werent available. She didnt think that 
Barclays had handled her subsequent complaint properly.
Barclays said that its cashier recalled dealing with Mrs S. The cashier said she hadnt been 
able to show Mrs S an indicative rate, due to a system error. Shed said that Mrs S could 
return at a later date, when the system was working, or could proceed without this 
information. Mrs S decided to go ahead. Barclays said that it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong with regards to this payment. It had paid Mrs S £100 to apologise for some poor 
service when it took her complaint. Our service is looking at that issue separately. This 
decision deals only with the transfer she made.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs S had chosen to 
go ahead with the transaction, although information on rates wasnt available at the time. 
Because Mrs S had authorised this transaction, he didnt think that Barclays had to do 
anything further. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt Barclays wasnt setting out the full picture of what happened at 
the branch. She said she wasnt given advice, or told about fees or percentage charges. She 
assumed the fees would be fixed. She said that the way wed looked at this, was as if shed 
made an informed decision, which she had not. She said that, as with most financial advice, 
Barclays ought to have told her about costs and fees before she made the transaction, not 
just after she saw how much was deducted from her account. 
Because Mrs S didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Although I 
know that Mrs S will be disappointed, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Ss arguments about support Barclays could have given her here, I 
do still have to bear in mind that Mrs S did know that the cashier wasnt able to give her 
details of how much the transaction might cost her. And she did still choose to go ahead with 
this transaction. 
I understand that Mrs S was very disappointed by the overall cost of the transfer that she 
made. She was expecting something closer to the exchange rate she saw online. In my 
experience, that isnt generally achievable with a high street bank. It is common for banks to 
add their own margin to an exchange rate transaction, and they are allowed to do that. 
Mrs S would have liked Barclays to explain this to her. I can see how it would be gold 
standard service to do so. But Im not able to require Barclays to come up to the highest 
possible standards of customer service. I just have to look at whats fair and reasonable, in a 
case, bearing in mind the relevant duties on Barclays. And Im sorry to have to tell Mrs S that 
I dont agree that Barclays was under a duty to tell her not to make this transfer until 
additional information was available. 
Barclays wasnt providing Mrs S with independent financial advice on the best way to make 
a foreign currency transfer. All it was doing was arranging the transaction that Mrs S asked it 
to make. And I think Barclays did what I would expect it to do, as part of providing that 
service. It told her it wasnt able to provide an indicative rate at the time, and said it could 
provide more information if she wanted to come back later. I dont think that Barclays has 
been unreasonable or unfair, or that it needed to provide stronger warnings to Mrs S in an 
attempt to deter her from using its service. 
And because of that, I dont think that Barclays has to pay Mrs S the difference between 
what she expected to pay, and what she actually paid. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman