DRN-2724858
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it hasnt paid 
him what he thinks is needed to reinstate his bathrooms following a water leak. He thinks it 
also caused delays.
What happened
On 3 July Mr R contacted AXA as thered been a leak in his upstairs bathroom, which had 
affected the downstairs bathroom situated below it. Mr R believed that both suites, tiling and 
flooring needed replacing, along with the ceiling downstairs. AXA sent an assessor who 
didnt agree that was the case; against Mr Rs requested cost of around £16,000, the 
assessor offered less than £900.
The assessor had concerns about the amount Mr R was asking for, as well as the amount of 
work he was looking to have done. AXA appointed a loss adjuster who interviewed Mr R and 
decided to send a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor concluded that some works 
Mr R was asking for werent necessary on account of the water damage, but also that AXAs 
assessor hadnt captured in its scope all that was necessary. Mr R was then offered £4,490 
for reinstating the upstairs bathroom, but nothing for downstairs. On appeal to AXA, it offered 
Mr R £1,320 for the second bathroom. AXA also said it accepted there had been some 
delays. It offered £150 compensation.
The sums offered for the bathrooms didnt include VAT, AXA said this would be paid if Mr R 
incurred it. The surveyor didnt think either suite needed replacing, but had included some 
allowance in case there was any damage caused when taking the upstairs bath out. 
Otherwise he provided a cost for removing and re-fitting the sanitary items. The surveyor 
said it wasnt necessary to re-tile either bathroom on account of the damage, but felt some 
damage to some tiles upstairs would likely occur when the skirting was removed to replace 
the floor, so a cost in this respect was included. There were also costs allocated for 
replacing the flooring in both rooms and the ceiling downstairs.
Mr R said the costs didnt reflect the necessary work, nor even the cost to him of the work 
that was accepted as being necessary. Mr R had been quoted £8,330 for the upstairs 
bathroom and £6,830 for downstairs (VAT wasnt specified). He said his contractor wouldnt 
guarantee to take the suites out without damage, and even if no damage was caused, Mr R 
couldnt store them and the contractor wouldnt guarantee them upon their reinstallation. 
Mr R said the tiling had been in place for a number of years and couldnt be matched. He 
said the tiling around the downstairs bath had been damaged by the water leak. 
Mr R complained to us. He said his contractor was more likely to know what was needed 
than a surveyor, and it wasnt fair to assume he was less qualified. Mr R said it was also fair 
to view AXA as having a vested interest in wanting to keep costs down and it was a forgone 
conclusion that the whole suite would be damaged on removal. He said he wouldnt accept a 
patch repair to the ceiling.
Our investigator noted that AXA had reviewed the damage twice and revised its settlement 
twice too; once in respect of upstairs, and the second time to include costs for the 
downstairs bathroom. He felt this was a fair way of AXA validating the claim costs and it was 
reasonable for it rely on its surveyors findings over the quote provided by Mr Rs contractor. 
He also noted the policy wording which allows AXA to settle claims in cash on the basis of 
the cost to it to complete the work. He felt the compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr R was disappointed. He said he thought hed get a fair hearing bringing his complaint to 
us, but that was clearly not the case because wed just sided with AXA. Mr Rs complaint 
was passed for an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr R. And with regret for the 
further upset this will cause him, Im not going to move away from those findings in my 
decision. But Id like to assure Mr R that my not finding in his favour doesnt mean his 
complaint has been considered in a biased manner. On the contrary, its the nature of what 
we do that we often find in favour of one party or the other. But our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties, we look at what 
happened and whether, taking into account things like good industry practice and the 
relevant policy wording, the insurer acted fairly and reasonably. If we find that it did not then 
well say so and, if appropriate, set out what it now needs to do to put things right. If we find 
that it was fair and reasonable, or that it wasnt but has done enough since to make up for 
that, then we wont uphold the complaint.  
Here I think AXA was wrong not to initially offer settlement for the downstairs bathroom  but 
it fixed that error in its final response. I know Mr R is unhappy with the work and costs AXA 
has agreed to for both rooms. But I note the final offers for both rooms were based on the 
findings of its surveyor. As an informal dispute resolution service we rely heavily on the 
opinions of experts, and in matters of property damage we often find a surveyors opinion to 
be more persuasive than that of a building contractor. 
Ive considered what the surveyor has said; he seems to have considered all the damage, 
and all the things Mr R has asked for settlement for. Hes explained what he thinks AXA has 
liability for, and what he thinks it doesnt, and why. He set out the work and costs. I think his 
findings are fair and reasonable and I cant see anything in them that would give me cause 
to think they might be flawed. Whilst Ive noted Mr Rs contractors quote and explanatory 
email, I cant reasonably apply more weight to his findings merely because he has worked 
fitting bathrooms for many years. I dont disagree that he knows what is needed for fitting 
bathrooms  but the surveyor assesses what is needed to reinstate insurance damage. 
I also have to bear in mind the AXA policy wording. This does allow AXA to settle claims in 
cash at the price it would cost it to complete work. Where a policyholder asks for cash so 
their chosen contractor can do the work, this can often lead to a shortfall as insurers can 
usually do work at a much lower cost than is available to the policyholder. So AXA was 
never bound to pay Mr R what it would cost him to do the work, even had they both agreed 
on what work was necessary. That said, I think here the main reason for the difference in the 
costs Mr R is looking for is for replacement of both bathroom suites and the downstairs tiling; 
there isnt much difference in the costs for items AXA has agreed to pay for. 
As indicated above, Im satisfied by the surveyors view in respect of the bathroom suites and 
tiling. But, regarding the suites, I note Mr R also says these should be replaced as he has 
nowhere to store the items during reinstatement work. I appreciate it is difficult to find 
somewhere to place large items  but Im also mindful that all claims come with some degree of inconvenience. Given the size of Mr Rs home, and even the size of the bathrooms 
themselves, Im not persuaded it would be impossible to keep the items somewhere, even if 
this means working or living around them for a short space of time. I appreciate a contractor 
wouldnt give a guarantee for items they are re-fitting  but they still have to  complete a 
good standard of work; which would include being careful when initially removing them. And 
Mr R hasnt got a warranty or similar for the suite now  so a contractor re-fitting them 
without providing one wouldnt negatively impact that position. Mr R would be in the same 
position he was before the leak occurred  and that is all AXA is liable for under the policy. 
AXA has accepted it was wrong to initially decline liability for all the damage to the 
downstairs bathroom. It also accepted it caused delays and didnt communicate as well as it 
should have done. I know Mr R has also explained that its been difficult to live with the 
bathrooms in their damaged state for so long. Having seen what happened and how the 
claim progressed, I think AXA could have acted more efficiently at times. But Im mindful also 
that sometimes Mr R needed contact out of hours, and this can take some time to organise. 
Living in a property that requires reinstatement can be stressful, but by mid-November AXA 
had made its final offer to Mr R and paid the sum to him. It also explained that Mr R could 
keep this without prejudicing his chance to complain. And I havent found the sums it offered 
and paid were unfair or unreasonable. Which means Mr Rs claim took around four and half 
months to conclude. I think its fair to say that this was never going to be a quick claim  not 
with the parties so far apart in respect of what was needed to resolve the damage, and that 
means there would always have been a period of discomfort and inconvenience before fair 
and reasonable settlement was made. Having considered everything, including noting the 
frustration caused by poor communication, Im satisfied that the £150 compensation, as 
offered by AXA, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman