DRN-2860474
The complaint
Ms L, through her partner who is representing her, complains that Amtrust Europe Limited 
unfairly refused funding under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In January 2019, Ms L made a claim under her policy for the legal costs of pursuing a breach 
of contract. Amtrust instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors to assess the claim to 
ensure it met the policys terms and conditions.
The solicitors wrote to Ms L with their advice which initially concluded that there werent 
reasonable prospects of success nor was it proportionate to pursue. As these are 
requirements for cover under the policy, the solicitors didnt think the claim would be 
covered. 
Ms L didnt agree with the advice, so she raised concerns to Amtrust, who in turn contacted 
the solicitors to request that the claim be reassessed. 
In February 2019, the solicitors wrote to Ms L again. They advised that they couldnt put 
prospects of successfully achieving the outcome Ms L wanted at more than 50%. And they 
were still concerned about proportionality. In addition, they said the current offer on the table 
from the other side was reasonable and unlikely to be beaten. 
The solicitors advised Ms L that if she didnt want to accept the offer, they were prepared to 
seek funding under the policy from Amtrust to send a letter of claim to the other side. They 
said that their involvement would be strictly limited to that one letter until they knew what the 
other sides position was, and then prospects and proportionality would be considered 
further. But they warned Ms L that by doing so, the other side could withdraw their offer.
Ms L decided she didnt want to pursue her claim with the panel solicitors any further. And 
she contacted them to withdraw instructions. The solicitors wrote to Ms L confirming theyd 
closed their file. 
Ms L asked Amtrust if she could instruct a solicitor of her own choice to pursue the claim 
under the policy. But Amtrust said there was only cover under the policy for a panel firm of 
solicitors prior to it becoming necessary to issue court proceedings. And as Ms Ls claim 
wasnt at that stage, she didnt have freedom of choice. 
Amtrust explained to Ms L that if she didnt agree with the panel solicitors legal opinion of 
the claim, she could obtain a legal challenge from a solicitor of her own choice. And if 
supportive, Amtrust would be prepared to consider the claim further. 
No contact was made with Amtrust again until November 2019, when Ms L informed it that 
shed managed to successfully negotiate a settlement with the other side through her 
solicitors. And she asked that Amtrust reimburse her the legal fees shed incurred in doing 
so.
Amtrust said the policy doesnt cover legal costs incurred that have not been agreed in 
advance. And as it hadnt accepted the claim, it didnt agree it was liable for the legal costs.
Ms L wasnt happy with Amtrusts decision, so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
was also unhappy with the handling of her claim by the panel firm along with the advice 
theyd given.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Amtrust were entitled to rely on the 
legal advice it obtained. And that Ms L had the option to use the limited funding offered by 
the panel firm or seek a legal challenge. As Ms L withdrew instructions and pursued her 
claim privately, he didnt think Amtrust was being unfair in declining to reimburse the costs 
incurred.
In addition, our investigator didnt think Amtrust were responsible for the actions of its panel 
firm. So he recommended that Ms L raise a complaint directly to the solicitors, and in turn to 
the Legal Ombudsman. 
As Ms L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
It is a requirement of Ms Ls policy that any intended claim has reasonable prospects of 
success  which is defined in the policy as a 51% or greater chance of winning the case and 
achieving a positive outcome. In addition, the policy requires the claim to be proportionate to 
pursue  which means the costs to pursue it should not outweigh the amount of money in 
dispute. 
These policy terms arent unusual in legal expenses policies, and we dont think theyre 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the 
cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs 
incurred. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it 
has obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance 
on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
In this case, Amtrust obtained the advice of a panel firm. And whilst they were of the opinion 
the claim only had 50% prospects of success and was unlikely to be proportionate, cover 
was offered on a limited basis to send a letter of claim. 
I appreciate Ms L didnt accept this legal opinion of her claim. But I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Amtrust shouldnt have relied on the second assessment it obtained from 
its panel firm. Rather it was up to Ms L to obtain a contradictory legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her own cost. If such an opinion was supportive then Amtrust had already 
confirmed it would reconsider the claim.
Ms L didnt do this. Instead, she withdrew instructions from the panel firm and instructed her 
own solicitors to pursue the claim. As Ms L decided to pursue the claim separately from her 
legal expenses policy, I dont think Amtrust has any obligation to cover the legal costs 
incurred. Im satisfied Amtrust had been clear that prior to it becoming necessary to issue 
legal proceedings, there was only cover under the policy for the costs of a panel firm of 
solicitors. As Ms Ls claim wasnt at that stage, Amtrust told her that she didnt have freedom 
to choose her own solicitors. 
Ms L now seeks reimbursement of the legal costs incurred in pursuing her claim. But 
Amtrust relies on the policy exclusion for legal costs that have not been agreed in advance. 
And I think this fair. I say this because Ms L was aware that Amtrust had not accepted her 
claim and did not have prior approval for the costs being incurred.
For these reasons, I dont agree that Amtrust has acted unfairly by declining to reimburse the 
legal fees. And Im not asking it to do anything further. 
Ms L has raised concerns about the panel firm of solicitors. Were unable to consider the 
actions of a law firm or the quality of legal advice as this would fall under the remit of the 
Legal Ombudsman. Should Ms L want to complain about the legal assessment of her claim 
or the delays of the panel firm, she would need to direct any such complaint to the solicitor 
and/or the Legal Ombudsman, as Amtrust is not responsible for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman