DRN-2924578
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about changes National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made to 
the way they access their accounts online. Although Mrs B has consented to this complaint 
our communication has been with Mr B. So, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to him.
Mr B says hes been inconvenienced by the changes. Hes also unhappy with how 
NatWest responded to his concerns.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B complained that accessing his online banking now involved him 
having to use a card reader, and that the requirement for the card reader was not consistent. 
In a call with NatWest he said he objected to being forced to use a card reader because he 
doesnt have a mobile phone. He said, I shouldnt be hampered in any way because I dont 
have a mobile phone.
Mr B also said that, as hes someone who doesnt use a mobile phone, NatWest should 
refrain from presenting him with online messages relevant to mobile phones, and other 
irrelevant notices.
NatWest responded to Mr Bs complaint. They said:
theyd introduced two-factor or strong customer authentication (SCA) in response to 
regulations;
the card reader was their only authentication option for customers who dont use a 
mobile phone;
whether a card reader is required will depend on a number of factors including the 
banks knowledge of a customers logging in pattern;
they were sorry that Mr B had previously been given unclear information about the 
requirement for a card reader (hed been wrongly told it was linked to time elapsed 
since last log in or was random); and
the online messages Mr B sees and finds irrelevant are generic, not personalized.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Mr B made a 
detailed 5-page submission to us about his complaint and has since added to that detail in 
his correspondence with our investigator. Id like to reassure Mr B that I have read all his 
submissions in full, and my summary here is in no way intended to reduce any aspect of his 
complaint or to deny his strength of feeling about it. Mr B complained that:
Hed been pressured to make his complaint to NatWest over the phone, rather than 
in writing;
NatWest refused to tell him exactly what the regulation said so he could be sure a 
card reader was the only way to comply;
NatWests response had brushed the issue of the randomness of the card reader 
requirement under the carpet  he wanted further information on this, but they 
refused to supply it;
Hed wrongly been told that the card reader requirement related to the elapsed time 
since the previous access;
Hed not been advised how he should behave to create a profile that would avoid the 
hassle of a card reader; and
He remained unhappy that NatWest had said they couldnt avoid him receiving 
unsolicited and irrelevant messages/notices. He said: I dont think NatWest should 
push out messages indiscriminately, perhaps as an easy way to disseminate 
information. That, in my opinion, is too crude and shows an avoidable disregard for 
the customer.
What Mr B told us
At the end of 2020 Mr B updated us on the situation and explained that sometimes when he 
tried to log in to his account he was asked to use the card reader, but when he restarted or 
refreshed the log in sequence he was able to gain access to my account as of old i.e. 
without any invitation to use a card reader. He said this undermined the layer of security 
NatWest had said the card reader was intended to add.
Mr B provided us with screenshots of the process to demonstrate that he was not being 
asked to use his card reader but was able to get into his account and perform all the usual 
functions of online banking.
When our investigator explained that this was likely to be due to NatWest using device 
recognition, Mr B said he was still mystified as to how the card reader provides additional 
security because a thief illegally in possession of his log in details and his computer device 
would be able to log in without a card reader.
What NatWest told us
NatWest explained that they made changes to their security processes in order to comply 
with the Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2) and the requirement to bring in two-factor or 
strong customer authentication.
We asked NatWest to explain why Mr B is not required to use his card reader every time he 
logs in. As the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had required payment service providers 
(PSPs), like NatWest, to implement SCA by March 2020 we asked NatWest whether the 
reason Mr B wasnt always required to use his card reader was because NatWest were 
applying a permitted exemption from SCA (Regulation 100 (5) of the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 specifies certain circumstances in which payment service providers are 
allowed not to apply SCA).
NatWest confirmed that they are not applying any exemption to Mr Bs account. Rather, they 
explained that they use device recognition as part of two-factor authentication. Their system 
also requests authentication by card reader (or mobile phone if one is owned/used) in some 
other circumstances  circumstances which suggest an increased risk or threat to the 
account.Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. He said he couldnt consider 
Mr Bs complaint that hed been pressured to make his complaint to NatWest over the phone 
because that was solely about complaint handling and, for that reason, not something wed 
look at. About Mr Bs other complaint points our investigator said:
Although Mr B finds some of the online notices and messaging irrelevant to him, how 
NatWest chooses to use its website to provide information to its customers is a 
commercial decision;
NatWests decision to require the use of a card reader for online banking is not unfair 
or unreasonable  PSPs are required by the FCA to implement SCA;
Hed seen no evidence that Mr B and Mrs B have any difficulty with using the card 
reader beyond finding it an extra step theyd prefer not to have to take; and
He was satisfied with NatWests explanation regarding the apparent randomness of 
the card reader requirement. Their approach is not unusual and did not indicate a 
problem with NatWests implementation of SCA.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said NatWest is the only bank to his 
knowledge to insist on the use of a card reader and he maintained that its a bogus con if it 
can be avoided by refreshing the log in page. He said he finds using the card reader a real 
inconvenience and that NatWest had been dismissive rather than taking the problem to 
system designers to see whether theyd got it wrong.
Complaint handling
Mr Bs complaint about how his complaint had been handled by NatWest wasnt addressed 
by our investigator because our investigator didnt think it was within our jurisdiction to look 
at. I disagreed with that. So, I set out both why I considered it to be something we could look 
at, and my provisional thoughts on NatWests complaint handling, in an email to both parties. 
In summary, I said:
although a complaint solely about complaint handling without any connection to the 
underlying financial service that the firm provided may be out of our jurisdiction, if the 
actions being complained about relate to the underlying financial service or the way 
in which the firm has administered its business in providing that financial service, as I 
think is the case here, we are able to consider them;
Id listened to a recording of the telephone conversation NatWest had with Mr B in 
December 2019;
I thought there was some miscommunication between the parties during the 
conversation about the complaint process, but ultimately I found Mr B was given an 
opportunity to expand on his written complaint, it wasnt a complaint that could be 
resolved over the phone, and Mr B received a final response letter giving the 
rationale for NatWests position and referral rights to this service;
I didnt agree that NatWest had been dismissive of Mr Bs complaint or given him 
referral rights to this service too soon  I found that NatWest had done what was 
required under the FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules;
given that NatWest were clear early on that they were complying with regulations (PSD2) and that they couldnt accommodate Mr Bs desired outcomes, I didnt think 
additional written correspondence prior to the final response letter would have been 
productive or resolved the complaint; and
I didnt agree that NatWest had acted unfairly or unreasonably or that Mr B was in 
any way disadvantaged by the way they handled his complaint.
In response, Mr B said he still felt NatWest had acted unacceptably by issuing a final 
response letter when they did because, it left no possibility of an exchange or clarification of 
views on the matter . He said hed been put at a disadvantage when he brought his 
complaint here as written exchanges would have allowed him to articulate his complaint 
better. He further commented that PSD2 does not mandate the use of a card reader and 
said he deserves to know the reasons behind being forced to use one.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry Mr B and Mrs B are likely to be disappointed, I have 
reached the same outcome as our investigator did and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into force on 
14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong 
customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its payment account 
online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out any action through a remote 
channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
Strong customer authentication (SCA) is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a)     something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b)     something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c)     something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
The FCA and UK Finance have both issued guidance to PSPs on the implementation of 
SCA. The FCA in its guidance document Payment Service and Electronic Money  Our 
Approach says:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply with their obligation to 
apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. 
For example, not all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs 
must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing a non-exhaustive list of 
authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the possession element of SCA. 
These include possession of a card evidenced by use of a card reader, and possession of a 
device evidenced by a hardware or software signature or device binding. In other words, 
PSPs can use device recognition to meet the possession element of SCA.
I think these regulations, and the associated guidance, mean that NatWest are required to 
implement two-factor authentication. Theyre also required to offer authentication methods 
which are workable for customers who do not use mobile phones. But neither the regulations 
nor the guidance is prescriptive about the authentication methods a PSP must offer. Its clear 
there are a range of ways PSPs can authenticate customers and not all PSPs will adopt the 
same range.
NatWests primary option for satisfying the possession element of SCA is to send a code to 
a mobile phone registered to their customer. But where the customer does not have or use a 
mobile phone, as is the case with Mr B and Mrs B, NatWest offer a card reader to establish 
possession of the customers card. NatWest have explained that, over time, once the 
customers device becomes recognised by NatWests systems, the need to establish 
possession of either a mobile phone or a card lessens. At that point NatWest is satisfying the 
SCA requirements by checking a customers knowledge (the customers number, and 
characters from their online banking PIN and password) and recognising possession of a 
device that the customer has used to access online banking previously.
When a device becomes recognised and the card reader is called for less often, I dont think 
that means the card reader was unnecessary to begin with or will never be required again. 
On the contrary, it would have been necessary to use the card reader to satisfy the 
possession element of SCA until such time as Mr Bs device became recognised by 
NatWests systems. As Mr B has already discovered through trying, the card reader is still 
required if Mr B attempts to log in from a different device. And it may also be required if he 
undertakes any action remotely which suggests a risk of payment fraud or other abuses. 
Mr B has interpreted this as inconsistent; a random application of the security measure 
which renders it worthless. But Ive seen nothing to suggest NatWest are applying the card 
reader requirement arbitrarily  its applied when the circumstances require the possession 
element of SCA to be satisfied with possession of a card.
Although I appreciate that Mr B finds using the card reader a real inconvenience, I dont 
think its an unviable method of authentication for either him or Mrs B, or one theyre unable 
to use. And whilst I accept that two-factor authentication can create some extra steps which 
some consumers might find frustrating, that must be balanced against the aim of reducing 
the significant risk payment fraud presents to both customers and businesses.
That risk is difficult to eliminate entirely. As Mr B has pointed out, if an unauthorised third 
party obtained his log in information along with the device he ordinarily uses for doing online 
banking theyd be able to access his accounts (satisfying both the knowledge and 
possession elements of SCA) without the card reader. But the fact that there is a small risk 
of that happening  of a third party being able to compromise the knowledge and possession 
elements of SCA  does not undermine the requirement for two-factor authentication. It 
stands to reason that authentication based on two or more elements that are independent of 
each other, will offer better protection against fraud than authentication by one element 
alone.I find that NatWest have made changes which they are required by regulation to make. 
Initially the explanations given to Mr B about these changes could have been better, but I 
think NatWest corrected any errors in those explanations when they responded to his 
complaint. In their final response NatWest did explain that the device used for logging into 
online banking was part of a customers logging in pattern and relevant to the requirement to 
use the card reader.
Mr B also raised concerns about how NatWest handled his complaint. In particular, he said 
that he was pressured to make his complaint to NatWest over the phone, rather than in 
writing, and that NatWest dismissed his concerns by moving as directly as possible to  
[the] ombudsman process. I set out my provisional thoughts on this aspect of Mr Bs 
complaint in an email on 11 November 2021 and Ive summarised what I said above. Having 
considered Mr Bs reply Ive found no reason to come to a different conclusion. I think 
NatWest dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and reasonably by listening to his concerns, 
providing him with their written final response, and giving him referral rights to this service. I 
remain of the view that an exchange of written correspondence between NatWest and Mr B 
about the SCA changes, prior to the final response, is unlikely to have resolved matters any 
sooner or avoided Mr Bs escalation of his complaint to this service.
I also dont think that by not having more correspondence with NatWest Mr B was put at any 
disadvantage when he brought his complaint to this service. We decide complaints based on 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account: relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what we consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Were an informal and free alternative to the courts, and consumers do not require any 
specialist subject knowledge to bring their complaint to this service. We also have an 
inquisitorial remit and so look at the substance of the complaint not just the complaint as it's 
written or explained to us. In short, the complainant does not have to investigate their own 
complaint and articulate it in technical terms before coming to us.
Finally, with regard to Mr Bs complaint about receiving information or notices online that are 
irrelevant to him, I agree with what the investigator said. I appreciate Mr B has at times felt 
bombarded with information but I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it used its website to provide customers using online banking with generic rather than 
personalised information. Mr B told us in July 2021 hes no longer impeded by irrelevant 
questions and market information when he logs in. So, it seems this is no longer an issue 
for Mr B in any event.
In conclusion, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about the changes NatWest made 
to the process for accessing online banking services or how NatWest have behaved towards 
Mr B and Mrs B in relation to those changes. I know that Mr B is likely to be disappointed 
with this outcome; hes shown through his submissions how deeply invested he is in this 
complaint. But I cant agree with Mr B that hes been penalised for not having a mobile 
phone, or that NatWest have acted unreasonably.
The changes were, as NatWest correctly explained to Mr B when he first complained by 
phone, driven by the Payment Services Directive 2  a European Directive brought into UK 
law by the PSRs 2017. NatWest also gave Mr B and Mrs B a viable alternative to 
authenticating with a mobile phone; a card reader. And NatWest have since explained why, 
now device recognition has been established, the card reader is required less frequently.
Overall, I dont think NatWest have acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman