DRN-1068726
 complaint 
Mr P says Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background 
This complaint is about a six-month instalment loan of £250 that Peachy provided to Mr P in 
December 2018. Mr Ps loan was extended for one month after the fourth repayment, 
although it looks as though it was then repaid early in two repayments.
Our adjudicator didn'tt uphold Mr Ps complaint and thought the loan was correctly lent. Mr P 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Peachy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. 
Before lending to Mr P, Peachy asked Mr P for information on his financial situation, such as 
his monthly income and his outgoings  split into various categories. Mr P declared fairly 
modest outgoings in relation to his income, but Peachy says it didnt question that as Mr P 
also told it he lived at home with his parents, so he didnt have any rent or a mortgage to pay 
for. I think thats fair. 
From what I can see, Mr P declared his income as £1750 and after paying his declared 
outgoings it looks as though he had a disposable income of £1220 per month. 
Mr P was due to repay the loan in six instalments and the highest repayment was around 
£89. This was the first loan Mr P had taken and the checks Peachy carried out didnt suggest 
Mr P couldnt afford to repay the loan. Mr P had sufficient disposable income to sustainably 
repay the loan and I so dont think Peachy was wrong to lend this loan. 
Im mindful that Mr P says Peachy shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time 
it lent to him, due to the other loans he had outstanding and the amounts he owed on 
several credit cards. But I can also see that Mr P declared his outgoing monthly credit 
commitments as £200 per month. So whilst I appreciate he mayve had other debts elsewhere, I dont think it was wrong for Peachy to rely on the information Mr P told in 
relation to how much he paid on a monthly basis towards those debts.
I accept that Mr Ps actual situation mayve been different to what Peachy was aware of. But 
as I think the checks Peachy did before lending this loan were proportionate in the 
circumstances, I dont think Peachy was wrong to rely on the information Mr P gave during 
his application, or not to ask for further information about his circumstances. It follows that I 
dont think Peachy lent irresponsibly to Mr P.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P but I hope my 
explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
my final decision 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint or make an award against 
Cash On Go Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Sam Wade
Ombudsman