DRN-3042694
The complaint
Mr B says that he was misled into buying a holiday club membership. Because the purchase 
was funded by a loan provided by GE Money Consumer Lending Limited, he says that it is 
liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way as the seller. Mr B 
is represented by a claims management company, which I shall refer to as T.
What happened
In or about August 2005 Mr B applied for membership of a company, which Ill call V. The 
seller was a company, C, registered in the British Virgin Islands, and it appears that the 
membership was to be represented by the allocation of Points Rights. Mr B was to pay 
£28,000 for the membership, which had many features of a holiday club. The deal included a 
trade-in of an existing holiday club or timeshare arrangement.
To finance the purchase of the membership, Mr B took out a loan with GE Money, arranged 
when he made the purchase. GE Money says the loan was repaid in May 2006. In March 
2018 T, acting on behalf of Mr B, complained to GE Money. It said that the contract had 
been misrepresented in a number of respects. Because the purchase had been financed 
with credit provided by GE Money, T said that it was liable under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 to meet its clients claims.
GE Money disputed that section 75 could apply; it said the necessary relationships were not 
present. It said too that the effect of the Limitation Act 1980 was that any claims Mr B might 
have had would by then be time-barred. T referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He concluded that the claims were 
likely to be time-barred and that it was therefore reasonable of GE Money to decline Mr Bs 
claim. T did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Although 
Mr B was, according to the contract, buying membership of V, the sale contract was with C 
and payment was made to C. I do not agree, as GE Money argued, that the supplier in this 
case was V. I think it was C, the company with which Mr B had a contract for the sale and 
purchase of the membership.
 GE Money has suggested as well that section 75 only applies where a court finds that a 
supplier is liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. There is however no 
requirement for a court finding against the supplier. Rather, section 75 applies to a debtor 
who has  any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract Such a debtor shall have a like claim against the creditor who is  jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor. Had the intention been that a creditor should only be liable 
once a court had found a supplier liable, the legislation could have said that.
It follows that the conditions Ive outlined above were met. I have therefore gone on to 
consider whether GE Moneys response to the section 75 claim was reasonable.   
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on breach of contract or 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact 
which is untrue and which induces someone into a contract. 
T has set out various statements which Mr B says led him to agree to buy the holiday club 
membership. They were all made on or before the sale was completed in August 2005, so 
that is the date on which any cause of action accrued. Whilst it is not clear whether Mr B also 
alleges any breach of contract, it does appear that he has been dissatisfied with the holiday 
club membership for many years.  
No claim was made until around March 2018, more than twelve years after the sale and 
nearly twelve years after the loan was repaid. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim was made outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in 
my view that it was reasonable for GE Money to say that it would not consider the 
misrepresentation claim under section 75.  
T says that the effect of sections 11A, 14 and 14A of the Limitation Act is that I must also 
consider the date on which Mr B became aware that he had cause for complaint. Our own 
rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years of 
the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the complainant 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint. There is no 
similar general provision in the Limitation Act relating to knowledge of a claim. And I do not 
believe that the provisions T has referred to help Mr B. That is because they deal with claims 
for death, personal injury or damage to property  including under the Consumer Protection 
Act 1987 (which deals with defective products) and under Fatal Accidents legislation. None 
of Mr Bs claims fall under this part of the Limitation Act. If they did, they would not be claims 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation and so would be outside the scope of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Whilst therefore I do not agree with all of GE Moneys arguments, I do think it likely that a 
court would conclude that any claim Mr B might bring (whether against C, GE Money or 
both) would be made outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act and would be 
unlikely to succeed. For that reason, I think that GE Moneys overall response to Mr Bs 
claim was reasonable. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr B has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the seller. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act, and I have not done so. Rather, I 
have considered GE Moneys response to Mr Bs claim.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman