DRN-4193601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance 
(Churchill) declined a claim made on their home insurance policy. 
Mr K has brought the claim on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to Mr K throughout 
this decision. 
Any reference to Churchill includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr K has contents insurance with Churchill. The policy started in April 2020 and has 
renewed each year.
Unfortunately there was a break-in at his home in September 2022 and so he reported the 
matter to the police. 
Mr K said a number of items were stolen from his property including jewellery and a watch. 
There was also some damage to his home. Mr K reported the burglary to Churchill. He says 
there was around £10,000 worth of items taken.
Churchill declined his claim on the basis he had previously claimed for his watch and gold 
coins in 2020 with a different insurer. It also said Mr K hadnt successfully substantiated his 
claim, and they believed Mr K was fraudulently making the claim. But Mr K says the watch 
and coins he is claiming for are different to the ones he previously claimed for.
Mr K wasnt happy with the service he received from Churchill and so he complained. He 
wants Churchill to reconsider his claim. 
Churchill said it reviewed the claim repudiation letter and agreed the correct decision was 
made. It said it was satisfied the fraud condition had been breached. Churchill said Mr K 
initially claimed for gold coins and when it asked him for further information including his 
wedding video Mr K advised he was no longer claiming for the gold coins. Churchill made 
enquiries with the previous insurance provider who confirmed a claim for the same brand of 
watch and gold coins was made with them previously. Since Mr K was unable to provide a 
satisfactory explanation for this the claim was declined.  Churchill said it considered Mr K 
had deliberately provided inaccurate information and so the policy was cancelled from 4 
October 2022. 
Because Mr K didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into things for him. He said he was satisfied Churchill acted reasonably when it declined the 
claim and cancelled the policy. He said Mr K hadnt provided Churchill with a plausible 
explanation for the inconsistencies, and so it was reasonable for Churchill to invoke the fraud 
condition. 
Mr K didnt agree. And so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by assuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as comments from both sides. But Ive commented on whats relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr K has experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim and I can 
see this has been a stressful experience for him. Mr K feels very strongly that Churchill has 
treated him unfairly. 
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr K has 
been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted; I empathise with the 
position he now finds himself in. So I will explain my decision below. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether Churchill acted in line 
with this. The fraud condition in Mr Ks policy says, you must be honest in your dealings with 
us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false, or exaggerated. If 
you, or any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false, or exaggerated claim your policy may be 
cancelled, we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims, we may keep any premium 
you have paid.
The policy goes on to say, we have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us 
and share information about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further 
fraud.
In relying on the condition quoted above the onus falls to Churchill to show that it has been 
breached. Its important to note that it isnt my role to decide whether Mr K has acted 
fraudulently or not. Rather, Ive needed to think about whether Churchill came to a fair and 
reasonable conclusion that Mr K breached the fraud condition, based on its investigation and 
its evidence. And Im satisfied that it did come to a fair and reasonable conclusion in this 
instance. 
Churchill has provided notes from its investigations and I can see it has looked into things 
thoroughly. Where there were inconsistencies in what Mr K had told it, it has raised these 
concerns, and sought explanations from Mr K, which I think was reasonable. Churchill 
believed the items being claimed for were previously claimed for in 2020 when Mr K held 
cover with a different insurer. And based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I think 
Churchill assessed the matter fairly, and came to a reasonable conclusion that the fraud 
condition had been breached. Mr K reported the theft in September 2022. At the time, he 
said the items taken were 47 large gold coins, 13 medium coins, two of his wifes necklaces, 
a ring with five stones in it, three watches, and around £700 in cash.  In a later conversation, 
Mr K said he was claiming for five watches, two of which belonged to his wife. 
Churchill appointed a claims investigation company to validate the claim. I think this is 
reasonable given the likely value of the items being claimed. The report from the claims 
investigation company recommended further investigation into the claim prior to any 
settlement due to the lack of substantiation. Of the items being claimed for, only one watch 
had been substantiated by way of a photograph of Mr K wearing a watch. There was no 
evidence to validate the remainder of the items being claimed for. The terms of the policy say, for any claim you must: give us any relevant information and 
evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership of the lost or damaged item. The 
notes show there were a number of times when Churchill requested information or evidence 
from Mr K in respect of the claim; in particular for the watches and the gold coins. But the 
information Mr K provided wasnt enough to substantiate the claim.
During its investigation Churchill learned Mr K had made a previous claim and, when it 
looked into this further, it noted some of the items claimed for in the previous burglary were 
the same as those Mr K was currently claiming for; such as a watch gifted to Mr K on his 
birthday with his childrens names engraved on the back, and some gold coins gifted to the 
family. So Churchill asked Mr K for an explanation of how these items, which were 
previously claimed for, were being claimed for again. Churchill wasnt satisfied with the 
explanation provided by Mr K, or with the evidence provided. Churchill is entitled to satisfy 
itself that all aspects of the claim are as they have been presented. 
For the relatively large value items being claimed for and, given Mr K suffered a similar 
incident two years before, Id expect him to be able to provide some evidence that he and his 
family owned the items. But Mr K said he couldnt provide anything more than the 
photographs and the details of where the gold coins were purchased from. 
Having listened to the calls between Mr K and the claims investigation company, and Mr K 
and the insurer, Im satisfied it treated him fairly. Churchill had concerns about the claim and 
questioned him about these. Churchill also gave Mr K the opportunity to explain the 
inconsistencies in the information he provided, and to provide additional evidence to support 
his claims. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard there were a number of things Churchill would 
reasonably have concerns about. These include: 
During the course of the claim Mr K said his watch had been stolen. He said the 
watch was personalised for him, a black watch with his childrens names engraved 
on the back. Mr K explained it was a birthday present from his wife. The same watch 
had already been claimed for in the previous 2020 claim. 
In the initial call to report the incident to his insurer Mr K said the coins werent all 
from the visit abroad, and that the coins had been collected over time such as for 
birthday gifts for the children. In the call with the claims investigation company Mr K 
was asked whether all of the coins were taken, and he said they were all in one place 
in a bag, some of them came from their wedding, and some from a visit abroad 
earlier in the year. Mr K also said he has pictures and a video from his wedding when 
the coins were given to him. 
Mr K described the stolen ring as one with five stones but the picture he sent in to 
validate the claim showed a ring with only one stone. Mr K said he sent the wrong 
picture. But no evidence of the five stone ring was subsequently provided. 
Mr K says his previous claim settled at around £12,000; for a television, a wardrobe, 
and some valuables. But the previous claim settled for almost £20,000 and included 
a personalised watch, jewellery, and some gold coins. Mr K claimed for gold coins in his previous claim in 2020 but told the claims 
investigation company that in 2020 the gold coins were kept at a relatives home, and 
that they were actually stolen in 2022. 
Based on the above I think it was fair for Churchill to consider there was likely a breach of 
the fraud condition, given the above, and some concerns it had about the inconsistencies in 
the information provided by Mr K. 
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided in this case Im satisfied Churchill conducted a fair and reasonable 
review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in light of the evidence received. The fraud 
condition in Mr Ks policy allows Churchill to void the policy, keep the premiums and decline 
the claim. So Im satisfied it acted fairly in taking these steps. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr K but having carefully considered the 
complaint I think Churchill acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. So I wont be asking 
it to reconsider Mr Ks claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about UK Insurance 
Limited trading as Churchill Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman