DRN-2602190
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was charged for failed payments by Starling Bank Limited (Starling).
What happened
In May 2020, Mr D tried to make two payments from his account with Starling. Both were 
rejected by Starling and were credited back to his account at the spot exchange rate. Fees 
were charged.
Time Debit/Credit GBP USD Fee Comments
Payment 1
03.10 Debit £2,900 $3,583.70 £17.10 Payment from account
11.04 Starling told of failure 
by processor
12.46 In-app message 
advising payment 
failed
12.46 Credit £2,908.64 Refund to account  
small profit
Payment 2
13.09 Debit £2,000 $2,445.94 £13.50 Payment from account
13.40 Starling notified of 
failure by processor
14.02 In-app message 
advising payment 
failed
16.54 Credit £1,975.08 Refund to account - 
loss
In the case of the first payment, the exchange rate had moved in Mr Ds favour and so more 
money was received back than was sent. For the second payment, less money was received 
than had been sent.
Mr D complained. In the message sent by Starling, he was advised that payments to the 
beneficiary had been blocked and yet they allowed the second payment attempt. And hed 
been charged fees for payments that werent made  and lost out on the exchange rate on 
the second payment when it was returned.
Starling said they hadnt made an error. The payments had been rejected as they were 
outside the risk appetite of their payment provider. Theyd advised Mr D that the payments 
had been rejected. The conversion back to Mr Ds account was made at the exchange rate 
at the time. Because the reasons for the rejection of the payment was outside their control, 
any costs or losses had to be stood by customers  including the fees paid. There was a 
delay in sending money back to Mr Ds account due to their operation processes.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. She 
asked why the payments had failed  and was told they were outside the risk appetite of 
Starlings third-party processor. They couldnt give anymore information. She could accept 
that Starling could reject the first payment. But not the second one as their message to Mr D 
said that any further payments to the same beneficiary would be blocked  but it wasnt. She 
asked Starling why there was a long delay  of three hours  before the money for the 
second payment was returned to Mr Ds account  and asked what the exchange rate 
wouldve been if it had been processed earlier, when the message was sent to Mr D  at 
14.02. Starling couldnt provide that information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starlings general terms and conditions cover what happens with failed payments. They say 
..it may be that the payment is rejected or returned for reasons outside our control. If thats 
the case, you may receive less money back into your account than you originally paid, 
because of fluctuating exchange rates. If its our fault that the payment was rejected, we will 
refund any difference back into your account, so that you receive the full amount back.
And Starling said that the payments were rejected by their third-party processor  so this 
would mean this was outside their control. So  they argue that the fees and costs due to the 
change in exchange rates should be paid by Mr D. But it wouldve been helpful to Mr D if 
Starling couldve explained more fully why the payments were blocked  as far as they 
could.
We asked Starling why there was a time lag between the rejection of the second payment 
and the refund to Mr Ds account  three hours later. Starling showed us their operational 
procedures, and it does confirm that such a delay is possible due to the way they deal with 
these refunds.
But  the key issue here is that Starling when advised Mr D that the first payment had failed 
 they said that further payments would also be blocked. The in-app message to Mr D said 
this payment has failed as it sits out of our international payment providers risk appetite. 
As a result you will not be able to make a payment to this beneficiary again. Mr D asked for 
more information seven minutes later Can you give more information why it doesnt 
work?  I cant see that Starling replied. Mr D wouldve seen the refund of £2,908.64 in his 
account at the same time  and made the second payment attempt. It seems quite 
reasonable for him to do this under the circumstances  he was puzzled as to what was 
going on. But then  even though Starling said that further payments would be blocked  
they allowed the second payment attempt. And this caused Mr D to pay a further fee and 
lose out on the exchange rate.We asked Starling several questions about what happened  such as why the second 
payment wasnt blocked, and why there wasnt a warning to Mr D when the second payment 
was attempted  but they couldnt tell us. 
Like our investigator, I can see that it was OK for Starling to reject the first payment. But, on 
balance, I dont think Starling have treated Mr D fairly and reasonably here in the way the 
second payment was dealt with.  
Putting things right
 Mr D shouldnt have to be out of pocket as a result of what happened. He lost £24.92 on the 
exchange rate on the second payment, and he paid a fee of £13.50. So, Starling should pay 
compensation of £50 to Mr D. This amount will cover the costs of the second payment, plus 
a sum for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Starling Bank Limited must pay £50 to Mr D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman