DRN-4330139
The complaint
Mr D complains that Plutusgroup Limited, (now known as Gate Capital Group Limited), gave 
him unsuitable advice to switch his defined contribution occupational pension to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP), and into high-risk investments, which caused him a 
financial loss.
Both Mr D and Gate Capital are represented in this complaint by third parties, but for ease of 
reading Ill mainly refer to any representations being made by Mr D and Gate Capital direct. 
What happened
In 2014 Mr D says he was approached by Blue Ocean Financial Services (Blue Ocean) 
offering to review his pension provision, which was as follows: 
Fidelity S32 buyout plan (money purchase) from a previous occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) with a transfer value of around £286,713
Paid up Abbey Life Executive Pension Plan (EPP) worth around £11,947, predicted 
to provide an annual income of around £507 from age 60. 
A personal pension valued at around £31,722
Deferred benefits in a previous final salary occupational scheme (BT)
Hed been contributing to his current employers group personal pension scheme 
valued at around £30,000 for about two years. 
Blue Ocean referred Mr D to Plutusgroup (now Gate Capital) in respect of the Fidelity and 
Abbey Life schemes, as it had the relevant regulatory permissions and expertise to advise 
on pension transfers. 
A fact-find of Mr Ds personal and financial circumstances recorded the following:
He was aged 51 and married with two dependent children;
He worked in IT earning around £120,000 per year, (a higher rate taxpayer);
His home was valued at £350,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £120,000;
He had ISAs totalling £10,000, and a £40,000 endowment policy to partly repay the 
mortgage. 
Mr D thought he needed annual retirement income of £28,000 and planned to retire 
at 67.
Blue Ocean obtained information about Mr Ds various plans, and in March 2015 Gate 
Capital issued a recommendation letter limited to his money purchase occupational schemes 
with Abbey and Fidelity. Its not clear what advice Blue Ocean gave or what happened with 
Mr Ds other pension plans, but this decision only concerns the advice given by Gate in 
respect of the Fidelity and Abbey plans. 
The report stated Mr D wished to consolidate his pensions and that his objectives were 
greater fund security, flexibility and potential growth. And that he wanted to invest in some 
funds which would automatically rebalance to meet his risk profile (which was recorded as 
balanced), and some offering fixed returns to balance his exposure to equities. Its 
recorded that high performance was more important than low charges to him.
Gate Capital identified that the Abbey plan, invested roughly two thirds in international funds 
and one third in property, provided only a modest income from age 60, was relatively 
expensive, and fund switches were not free. But it advised Mr D not to transfer it, due to the 
28.77% exit penalty, and because hed lose protected tax-free cash. But it suggested 
switching funds in line with his balanced risk profile.
In respect of the larger Fidelity plan, Gate Capital recommended transferring the funds to a 
Novia SIPP and (after deducting its 3% fee), two investment plans were opened (ending 119 
and 120) in order to invest 49% in Greyfriars Asset Management Discretionary Fund 
Management Portfolio Six (GAM6), 49% in Vanguard LifeStrategy 60% equity model 
portfolio, and retain the remaining 2% in cash. 
The application for the Novia SIPP was completed, and in June 2015 £301,029 was 
transferred from Fidelity to Novia, of which around £150,514 was invested in GAM6. The 
projected value of this element of his SIPP at retirement (age 65) after charges was 
£174,000, based on assumptions of 2.44% growth and 2.5% inflation. 
On 28 August 2015 the following investments were made by the DFM within Mr Ds GAM6 
portfolio: 
£42,777 into Enviroparks (energy from waste products)
£35,647 into Lanner CarPark bond (UK car parks), 
£35,647 into Olmsted bond (US property) and 
£28,518 into the Resort Group (hotel developments in Cape Verde). 
At some point Simply Retirement took over the management of Mr Ds plan but wasnt 
responsible for making the investments within the SIPP.
In 2016 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) told Greyfriars to stop 
accepting investments into GAM6. 
In 2017 Mr D switched around £174,281 from his Novia SIPP to another provider 
In 2018 Mr Ds new adviser arranged to switch the remaining Vanguard investments into 
cash, but the investments within the GAM6 portfolio were illiquid. The Resort Group and 
Enviroparks investments have a nil value, and although the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is yet to confirm, the Olmsted and Lanner investments are 
also effectively worthless. He was concerned transferring away from his Fidelity OPS hadnt 
been in his best interests, as the investments within the SIPP were too high risk for him as a 
risk averse investor. Around this time Mr D appointed a claims management company 
(CMC) to represent him. 
Mr D complained to Blue Ocean that the unsuitable high-risk investments led to losses of 
around £97,307 based on what his Fidelity pension wouldve been worth had he not 
transferred. Blue Ocean is no longer trading so in November 2018 Mr D submitted a claim to 
FSCS. In March 2019 FSCS rejected the claim, and advised Mr D to complain to Gate 
Capital, as that firm was responsible for the regulated financial advice in respect of the 
pension transfers. 
Gate Capital said it didnt advise on the investments Mr D says were unsuitable and 
effectively worthless and hadnt been his adviser at the time the investments were made. It 
pointed out Mr D himself confirmed his dealings had only been with Blue Ocean, and hed 
appointed a new adviser in September 2015 which could have switched him out of those 
investments but didnt do so until 2018. So Gate couldnt be held responsible for any loss 
arising from the failed investments.In June 2021 Mr D complained to this service. One of our investigators reviewed the case 
and upheld it, saying splitting his plan into two didnt meet his objective of consolidation, and 
a stakeholder plan wouldve better met Mr Ds objectives, due to the lower charges. While Mr 
D wasnt dissatisfied with the performance of the Vanguard portfolio, the transfer itself was 
unsuitable, so the redress should be based on the entire transferred amount. 
Gate Capital said the recommendation to invest in Vanguard and GAM broadly matched Mr 
Ds balanced attitude to risk and didnt think it should be held responsible for the actions of 
the DFM and the failed investments it chose. Gate reiterated that Mr Ds new adviser 
couldve reviewed the investments in Mr Ds SIPP and switched if they were considered 
unsuitable yet didnt do so. 
So the case was passed to an ombudsman.
The first provisional decision 
One of my colleagues issued a provisional decision in March 2023 in which he considered 
Gate Capital hadnt effectively assessed the suitability of the underlying investments to be 
held in Mr Ds SIPP. He said the GAM investments didnt match Mr Ds balanced attitude to 
risk, as his Fidelity plan had done, and Mr D didnt have capacity to absorb the risks 
involved. The GAM6 portfolio was unsuitable for Mr D from the outset, and Mr Ds losses 
arose from the original advice to transfer from the scheme. 
But as he didnt think the Vanguard investment was unsuitable for Mr D, he only awarded 
redress based on losses arising from the GAM element. And he recommended £250 to 
reflect the trouble and upset Mr D experienced. 
Gate Capital responded in detail, restating that it shouldnt be held responsible for losses 
arising from subsequent investments which it didnt advise on.  
The second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision in June 2023 as the case had been passed to me for 
operational reasons. I wanted to set out my initial thoughts before finalising the decision. 
Some of that decision is replicated below and forms part of the final decision. 
I first explained that while I had read the whole file and all the correspondence from the 
parties, Id focussed my review on what I thought are the key points. Which were whether 
the complaint had been brought in time, and if it was, whether Gate Capital is responsible for 
the matters Mr D complains about, and what should be done to put things right. 
I also explained that each case is considered on its individual circumstances, merits, and 
facts, so I hadnt taken other cases involving a different investment manager than GAM into 
consideration. 
In the provisional decision I said the following:
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The rules this service must follow are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and are known 
as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. DISP rule 2.8.2(2) says that where a business 
doesnt consent to us looking at a complaint (as Gate doesnt in this case), we cant consider 
it if its been brought: (a) more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later
(b) more than three years after the consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, they had cause to complain
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received (my bold emphasis).
It's not clear exactly when the advice was given. The fact find is dated 20 October 2014, and 
the suitability report was dated 13 March 2015, Gate Capital says this is a typographical 
error and the advice was given on 25 March 2015, which is when Mr D signed Plutus 
service proposition document. So being as generous as I could with the time limits, under 
the six-year element of the rule, the complaint needed to be raised by 25 March 2021 to be 
within time.  And to show it was received in time, there has to be a written 
acknowledgement, or some other record of the complaint having been received by Gate. 
In October 2018 Mr D had engaged a Claims Management Company (CMC) to help recover 
his losses. Ive seen the letter of authority Mr D signed on 12 October 2018, and a letter from 
Fidelity to the CMC dated 25 October 2018 showing the investments originally within Mr Ds 
plan at the time of the transfer, and a valuation of what the plan would be worth had Mr D not 
transferred it. 
Mr D contacted this service in May 2021, and he signed our complaint form on 17 June 
2021, having ticked the box to show he hadnt complained to Gate Capital yet. So we 
passed details of his complaint to Gate Capital, explaining we couldnt get involved until the 
firm had been given eight weeks in which to respond. Mr D contacted us in August 2021, 
wishing to progress his complaint as Gate Capital hadnt responded to him. Shortly 
thereafter Mr D requested we update our records to show he was being represented by a 
CMC. 
So on the face of it, Mr D raised his complaint with us outside of the six-year period. He 
doesnt have a written acknowledgment of his complaint from Gate. But I think there is 
some other record of a complaint having been received by Gate Capital within the six 
years. The CMC has provided us with an office copy of a letter (so not on headed paper) 
dated 4 February 2021, addressed to Gate Capital, about their client Mr D. The address had 
one letter wrong in the road name in the address and omitted one letter from the postal 
code. But the CMC also provided a copy of a Royal Mail proof of delivery showing an item 
was delivered and signed for by Grace at 9.23am on Friday 5 February 2021. 
Gate Capital says it didnt receive the letter, and in any case the address used is a 
correspondence address and not the location of their actual offices. As its the address held 
by the FCA, Companies House, this service and published on Gate Capitals own website I 
thought it reasonable for Mr D to have written to Gate Capital there. Due to the passage of 
time, the tracking number no longer works in the Royal Mail website, so I cant evidence 
where the letter was delivered. But Ive no reason to think the delivery confirmation doesnt 
refer to the CMCs letter about Mr D addressed to Gate Capital. Even with the minor 
discrepancies in the address, I think there was sufficient information for the letter to have 
been delivered correctly. I dont think its relevant that Gate Capital says it doesnt have an 
employee called Grace, as post can be signed for by building receptionists etc, not just direct 
employees of a firm, which would seem to be the case here if that location is just a 
correspondence address. 
Its not certain Gate Capital would have replied to the 4 February 2021 letter even if thered 
been no doubt it was received. It didnt acknowledge or respond to Mr Ds complaint when it 
was emailed by this service to the correct email address. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I thought its more likely than not, a complaint on Mr Ds behalf was received by Gate 
Capital in February 2021 which is within the six-year time frame. 
The SIPP statements over the years show the value being relatively stable, but I dont need 
to consider when Mr D ought reasonably to have cause to complain under the three-year 
element of the rules. As Im satisfied the complaint was made within six years of the advice, 
and so is within our jurisdiction.
Was Gate responsible for the advice?
Gate Capital provided a lengthy and comprehensive response to the first provisional 
decision. But its key argument is that it stood by its recommendation to switch from Fidelity 
to the Novia SIPP, and the investment strategy of half in Vanguard and half in the DFM with 
GAM6. But it wasnt responsible for the investments subsequently made by the DFM within 
the GAM6 portfolio. So other parties not Gate should be held responsible for Mr Ds losses 
arising from those failed investments. It pointed out Mr D himself said his dealings and 
relationship were primarily with Blue Ocean. 
I can see that Blue Ocean introduced Mr D to Gate Capital, as they didnt have the 
regulatory permissions to advise on pension transfers. Blue Ocean did the initial groundwork 
by obtaining information about Mr Ds plans, but the fact find was completed on a Plutus 
Group headed form, Mr D signed Plutus Group Limiteds Valued Service Proposition 
document on 25 March 2015, and Mr F from Gate Capital verified Mr Ds identity. So while 
Blue Ocean may have been acting on Gate Capitals behalf, theres evidence of direct 
contact between Mr D and Gate Capital. Mr D selected the Platinum service to say he 
wanted Gate Capital (not Blue Ocean) to provide him with ongoing advice. 
Mr D sent a letter dated 10 July 2015 to Novia, appointing Mr F of Plutus Asset Management 
(Plutusgroup), as the servicing agent in respect of his Novia investments. 
The suitability letter from Mr F dated 13 March 2015 addressed to Mr D at his home address 
on Plutus headed paper says hes a pension transfer specialist with the appropriate 
qualifications and authorization to conduct the review. The letter stated that Mr F had 
assessed Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, and the letters purpose was to confirm the 
recommendations made to Mr D. It concluded with a paragraph in bold which read [..] all 
pension advice has been delivered by, and is the responsibility of, the Authorised Financial 
Advisers of Plutus Group. No other advice has been sought from, or given by any other 
agent, introducer or paraplanner associated with the Plutus Group. Which I think makes 
clear Gate Capital not Blue Ocean made the recommendations and is responsible if 
something goes wrong. 
Gate Capital also said that almost immediately after it gave the advice and were appointed 
as servicing agents, Mr D transferred authority back to Blue Ocean, and Gate Capital never 
received any ongoing fee and nor did it have any responsibility to monitor the investments or 
provide further advice to [Mr D]. I can see Blue Ocean sent the Fidelity transfer 
questionnaire to Novia, but Novia then wrote to Plutusgroup rather than Blue Ocean asking it 
to arrange for Mr D to sign the form. Which suggests Gate Capital remained involved in the 
transaction after the advice had been given. 
To support this, Novias SIPP application has the adviser recorded as Plutusgroup and its 
records show the original adviser on policy 119 (the Vanguard element) was noted as Gate 
Capital Group [Mr F] and for policy 120 (the GAM6 element) Portfolio 6 Plutusgroup Ltd 
Gate Capital Group Limited. Gate Capital was shown as the servicing adviser firm from 2 
April 2015 to 14 July 2015, it was Simply Finance t/a Simply Retirement from 14 July 2015 to 
13 August 2015, then back to Gate Capital from 13 August 2015 to 16 September 2015 at 
which point it changed back to Simply Finance. Importantly, the illiquid assets held in the SIPP were acquired on 28 August 2015 when Gate Capital is recorded as the servicing 
agents, even if it didnt recommend the investments itself. In September 2017 Novia wrote to 
Mr F at Plutusgroup asking for verification of Mr Ds national insurance number, which 
suggests even at that time Novia held Gate as the servicing adviser on Mr Ds policy. 
Rationale for the transfer  was the advice suitable?
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Gate 
Capital. Of particular relevance to this complaint are the following: 
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. COBS 9.2 required Gate Capital to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr D. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R required Gate Capital to obtain enough information from Mr D to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives. And that he had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
This means Gate Capital cannot make a recommendation to move a pension without taking 
reasonable care to ensure its in Mr Ds best interests. 
The suitability report lists Mr Ds needs and objectives as intending to work for at least ten 
more years, aiming to retire at 67, requiring annual income of around £28,000 in retirement, 
optimising his pension against inheritance tax, for it to be invested with a company which 
provides all of the possible retirement options and that Mr D was seeking possible 
improvements, which could offer greater fund security, flexibility and growth. All of which 
seem reasonable but doesnt suggest a particularly compelling argument to switch to a SIPP 
or that a DFM would be necessary to achieve those aims. 
To make a positive recommendation the reasons for switching needed to be sound. The 
potential to be better off would need to be enough to more than compensate for the risk that 
Mr D might end up worse off. At the time he complained, Mr D described himself as being 
risk averse but the evidence doesnt support thats what he said at the time. His attitude to 
risk (ATR) was described as balanced in the suitability letter which Mr D signed, which 
suggests he didnt dispute that assessment at the time. Ive not seen the questionnaire 
which assessed Mr Ds ATR, but I dont think categorising him as a balanced, medium risk 
investor was unreasonable.  
The Fidelity plan was invested in four funds split roughly 31% in UK equities (medium/high), 
23% in gilts (low/medium), 15% in cash (low) and 30% in a multi-asset long-term growth 
fund (medium/high), which taken together appear to be in line with a balanced attitude to 
risk. Gate Capitals suitability report says the Fidelity plan offered a choice of another 87 
funds, and switches were free of charge. So in order to recommend Mr D switch out of 
Fidelity and into a SIPP, Gate Capital was obliged to demonstrate this was in his best interests, in terms of the benefits he could achieve, the costs involved and the risk hed 
incur. 
The Fidelity plan was the largest of Mr Ds pensions, and so was a significant element of his 
retirement planning. It was a defined contribution (money purchase) plan, so Mr Ds income 
in retirement was dependent on fund performance. At the time of the advice Mr D was 51 
and intended to work for at least another ten years and the suitability report was based on an 
investment horizon of at least five years, so I can see why Mr D was interested in reviewing 
his options. It seems reasonable that he might be prepared to take some risk with his 
pension, to achieve higher returns. But Ive also seen no evidence that he was an 
experienced investor, he had dependent children, and modest savings. And even allowing 
for the endowment plan still had a significant mortgage, so I think he had limited capacity for 
loss. 
Gate Capitals report recorded that Mr D had a number of concerns with his existing Fidelity 
plan, including that he wanted to access to funds which rebalance on an ongoing basis, 
including those which offer a fixed return to reduce volatility from exposure to equity 
markets. If Mr D did express such concerns, Gate Capital shouldve understood he was 
looking for security and steady growth, rather than increased risk. And Im not persuaded 
employing a DFM was essential to achieving these objectives. 
One of Mr Ds recorded objectives was to consolidate his pensions. But as soon as Gate 
Capital identified the transfer penalty and loss of protected tax-free cash with the Abbey 
plan, it recommended he left it in place, meaning a key reason to switch fell away. 
Consolidation of two plans into one was no longer justifiable, but Gate Capital recommended 
Mr D switch only his Fidelity plan to the Novia SIPP, and then divide that one plan into two 
elements to be invested separately, which appears to achieve the opposite of consolidation, 
with little rationale. 
Gate Capital suggested Mr D switch into different funds within his Abbey plan, and if Mr D 
genuinely wished to reduce his exposure to equities, I see no reason why that approach 
couldnt have been taken with the Fidelity plan as well. Particularly as Fidelity offered a 
choice of 87 other funds, and fund switches were free. The suitability report says staying put 
was discussed with Mr D, but he preferred to ind a suitable home for his pension funds, 
due to his concerns with his Fidelity plan. 
But in accordance with the principles set out in PRIN and COBS, an advisers role isnt 
simply to deliver what Mr D might have thought he wanted. Rather theyre obliged to assess 
Mr Ds particular needs, circumstances, attitude to risk and importantly capacity for loss, and 
make a recommendation on that basis. Which could mean advising against doing something 
the customer wants, if it isnt demonstrably in their best interests. 
The report discounted moving to a stakeholder pension. The only advantage of these is 
potentially lower charges, but they generally arent flexible. So I dont agree with the 
investigator that Gate Capital shouldve recommended the switch from Fidelity into a 
stakeholder plan. Gate Capital recommended Mr D open a Novia SIPP and explained the 
benefits of that product in terms of his recorded objectives including flexibility of when he 
took benefits, an option not available with his current provider. Im not persuaded this was 
compelling, as Mr D said he didnt intend to retire for at least ten years and his selected 
retirement age was 67. It also said the new arrangement would allow him to be advised and 
serviced by a professional adviser but without stating why that was suitable for Mr D.
Another important factor which suggests the switch is unlikely to have been in Mr Ds best 
interests, is the increased charges. In the suitability report Gate Capital noted charges were 
not an overriding concern for Mr D, but he was looking for a cost-effective option. The charges section set out that Gate Capital would receive around £8,601 (3% of the transfer 
value) and ongoing adviser charges of 1% which the report stated Mr D thought represented 
good value for the level of service provided. It went on to acknowledge that charges would 
initially be higher than Mr D was currently paying, but that improved performance should 
outweigh the increase. The Novia SIPP charges ranged from 0.5% for values below 
£250,000 up to 0.15% for values over £1m. A table in the report compared the existing and 
new plans and stated the new arrangement is more cost effective being 0.13% cheaper than 
the Fidelity plans annual management charge of 1%. But I think this is misleading, as it 
doesnt include the cost of the advice, any ongoing advice charges, or any charges 
applicable to the investments within the SIPP. Mr D didnt actually pay the 1% Platinum 
ongoing servicing charge, as he moved away from Cate Capital. But I understand GAMs 
charge was 0.5%, meaning the overall charges for the new arrangements were not cheaper 
than his existing plan.
Under fund selection in the suitability letter, Gate Capital recommended Mr D invest 49% in 
the Vanguard LifeStrategy 60% Equity Model Portfolio Fund, 49% in GAM Portfolio 6 DFM 
service and retain 2% in cash. 
Gate Capital described the Vanguard range of model portfolios as providing investors with 
cost-effective access to an institutional quality investment team and a well-diversified 
portfolio. Vanguard offered portfolios with equity weightings ranging from 20% to 100%. 
Although Mr D is broadly happy with the performance of the Vanguard investment and 
doesnt want to complain about it, the 60% weighting towards equities Gate Capital 
recommended doesnt appear to have met his stated objective of reducing his exposure to 
equities, and towards funds offering a fixed return to reduce volatility and greater fund 
security. 
The suitability report gave little detail about the reasons for recommending GAM6, which I 
understand was a portfolio of fully managed investments specifically designed to enable 
investors to gain exposure to non-correlated (not linked to equities) and niche investments, 
(including unregulated mini bonds). It was aimed at the sophisticated, experienced investor. 
Although Mr D was a higher rate taxpayer due to his salary, he had a modest property with 
an outstanding mortgage, his only assets excluding his pension funds and family home were 
ISA savings of £10,000. So I dont believe he was genuinely a high-net worth individual, or a 
sophisticated, experienced investor, and I think niche investments with no track record 
were likely to be too risky for him. 
Gate Capital categorised the risk rating of both the Vanguard and GAM6 asset mix at 4/7, 
which it says is slightly lower than the Fidelity plan, which it said was 4.2/7. And as both 
providers had a long successful history, it stood by its recommendation.  But if Gate Capital 
is saying that the investments it recommended within the SIPP were essentially comparable 
to Mr Ds existing Fidelity plan, but involved additional cost, I dont think it has provided a 
compelling argument for the switch. 
Should Gate Capital be held responsible for the investment decisions made by the DFM into 
the GAM6 portfolio?
Gate Capital has drawn a distinction between the advice to transfer away from Fidelity to the 
SIPP, and into GAM6 and Vanguard, and the subsequent investments made by the GAM 
investment manager into the four funds which are now illiquid. Gate Capital says Mr D wanted to use a DFM arrangement to hopefully benefit from better 
performance. The rationale for recommending the DFM was that Mr Ds funds would be in 
expert hands and it recommended the GAM6 portfolio of fully managed investments which 
were exclusively offered on the Novia platform. I dont think its likely a DFM was Mr Ds 
idea, it was recommended by Gate. But even if hed expressed such interest, Im not 
persuaded a DFM was the only, or most appropriate means to achieve his objectives. 
There is some overlap of responsibility in terms of the adviser and the DFM, and while the 
DFM will manage the investments for the client, the adviser should set out the investment 
strategy it recommended to Mr D in order to meet his objectives which underpin the rationale 
for moving away from Fidelity. Gate Capital says the failed investments were made as a 
result of the DM going rogue and making investment choices outside of the prescribed 
investment parameters. Ive not seen any specific instructions Gate Capital gave to GAM, 
other than Mr Ds balanced ATR and the rather vague objectives set out in the suitability 
report. So its hard to assess what mandate was agreed. And Ive seen no agreement 
between GAM and Gate Capital or Mr D direct which would clarify this. 
Ive also not seen the marketing or any other literature relating to the GAM6 portfolio, other 
than the brief description within the suitability report appendix. But contemporaneous 
information suggests minibonds, (which are unregulated investments), were a feature of the 
GAM6 portfolio, so wouldnt be suitable for Mr D.  
Due to concerns that advisers were making recommendations without fully considering the 
subsequent investment choices, the then regulator the Financial Services Authority issued 
an alert in 2013 that it had been made aware that some advisers were providing advice on 
pension transfers or switches without assessing the advantages and disadvantages of the 
investments proposed to be held within the pension. 
The GAM6 investments werent recognised as failed until much later, and Gate Capital says 
it simply recommended Mr D employ the expertise of a DFM as the best way to maximise his 
returns. But Ive seen nothing to make me think a DFM was suitable for Mr D in the first 
place. So, and irrespective of whether GAM didnt invest as Gate Capital thought they would, 
Mr D shouldnt have had a DFM. He was only invested with GAM because Gate Capital had 
advised him to do that. I cant see hed have invested with the DFM otherwise. I consider all 
Mr Ds losses flow from Gate Capitals advice, as but for that advice he wouldnt have 
invested with GAM6.
I consider it a weak argument for Gate Capital to suggest its absolved of responsibility to 
provide suitable advice, because an adviser appointed by Mr D after the funds were 
transferred to the SIPP could have switched the investments again but failed to do so. Gate 
Capital had received a significant fee for its advice which included the recommendation for 
the DFM. Mr D transferred away from Fidelity in my view unnecessarily, and his losses arise 
from Gate Capitals unsuitable advice. 
Its not reasonable for Gate Capital to expect its unsuitable advice to be put right by another 
firm. And in any case its not clear switching out of the investments within GAM6 wouldve 
been possible. While they werent yet considered to be worthless, they were likely always 
illiquid, so Mr D may not have been able to sell and recoup his investment even if his new 
adviser had suggested this. Of course, If Mr D is dissatisfied with his new adviser, he can 
raise his concerns separately.
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ds complaint, and I set out how I thought Gate 
Capital should put things right.
Responses to the provisional decisionMr D accepted the provisional decision. He also provided copies of correspondence and 
pension reviews with his new adviser Simply Retirement, which it appears he was introduced 
to by Blue Ocean. 
Gate Capital responded in detail, making the following points:
Jurisdiction
Gate Capital restated its position that the complaint was raised too late for this service to 
consider it, saying (in summary): 
The CMCs letter dated 4 February 2021 was not received by Gate. 
The delivery note is of little evidential value.
Mr D told this service he hadnt complained previously, which contradicts the CMCs 
position.
Mr D signed the CMCs letter of authority appointing them to represent him in April 
2021, after it sent the February letter.
The CMCs letter gave Gate 40 days to reply and neither the CMC or Mr D chased 
for a response, which is surprising given CMCs are financially motivated
The complaint made by Mr D to this service in June 2021 was after the six years had 
expired, and more than three years since Mr D ought to have been aware he had 
cause to complain. There were a number of points from November 2015 onwards Mr 
D should have realised the investments were unsuitable for him, so the complaint is 
time barred. 
If the ombudsman maintains the position its more likely than not a complaint letter 
was received by Gate on 4 February 2021, the CMC should be asked to provide 
substantiating evidence, such as communications with Mr D around the time of the 
letter having been delivered to Gate. 
Merits
Gates representatives also made some further comments on the merits of the complaint, 
making the following points (in summary)
They maintain the advice given to Mr D was suitable at the point it was given, and the 
use of a DFM for part of his portfolio was appropriate.
The switch out of Fidelity was recommended as Mr D was dissatisfied with its 
performance (it had underperformed a benchmark by almost 25%).
The strategy of half Vanguard and half GAM6 had a similar balanced risk profile, but 
with less exposure to equities meaning less volatility.
It wasnt evident GAM6 offered niche investments, not all unregulated investments 
are high risk, and the negative perception of mini-bonds is with the benefit of 
hindsight. The concern at the time was to avoid UCIS and NMPI investments which 
GAM6 didnt include.
Gate followed the regulatory guidance around investments in SIPPs relevant at the 
time. The concerns about corporate bonds arose after the advice.
GAM6 moved away from standard investments by not complying with the FCAs rule 
changes after the advice, and when Mr D had a new adviser. 
DFMs provide valuable expertise to investors. The ombudsman hasnt explained why 
a DFM arrangement was unsuitable for Mr D.
The ombudsman said Mr D shouldve remained with Fidelity, which overlooks all the 
reasons why this was not suitable (underperformance, lack of adviser charging, lack 
of expertise and lack of income options at retirement).The increased costs were not unreasonable and did not outweigh the perceived 
advantages of the arrangement. An additional 1.37% isnt unreasonable in return for 
the dual benefits of a financial adviser and a DFM. 
Gate Capital cannot be held responsible for the full redress, as Mr Ds new advisers 
retained the investments when they became non-standard. If Mr D also claimed 
against his new advisers this would lead to double recovery if Gate is found liable for 
the same loss. 
The new advisers dithered over divesting the GAM6 portfolio investments and didnt 
have any agreement in place with GAM. Its not reasonable for the new adviser to 
take fees but fail to advise on whether existing investments remain suitable, unless 
they were illiquid which isnt the case here. 
Gate is not saying that it shouldnt be held responsible for losses arising from its 
advice, but that its liability should only extend to the point the new adviser should 
reasonably have been expected to do something about the unsuitable investments.
Mr D or his new adviser had a responsibility to take action to mitigate his losses.
The ombudsman is departing from a consistent approach in two other cases relating 
to a different DFM (and it provided those references) 
Upholding the complaint in full against Gate would be unfair and unreasonable.
So Im now in a position to make the final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Ive thought about the points Gate has made, but I still think the evidence shows a complaint 
was most likely made to Gate in February 2021, prior to the six years having expired. This 
means I dont need to consider when the three-year point of reasonable awareness started 
running. 
Unfortunately due to the passage of time, its not possible to obtain the clarity around the 
delivery of the CMCs letter that Id ideally liked to have seen. So where evidence is missing, 
incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, Im basing my conclusions on what information I do 
have, and the wider circumstances.
Gate says the CMCs complaint in February 2021 was before Mr D had signed their letter of 
authority (LOA), so the CMC couldnt have been acting on his behalf as he wasnt their 
client. In fact Ive seen evidence that Mr D has been represented by the same CMC since 
2018 in relation to this complaint, although Mr D originally thought he needed to complain 
about Blue Ocean. Mr D signed the CMCs original LOA on 12 October 2018 in relation to a 
claim against pension provider Novia and IFA Plutusgroup (Gate). And Fidelity provided the 
CMC with information relating to Mr Ds plan and what it would be worth if it hadnt been 
transferred away, on 25 October 2018. When Mr D understood Blue Ocean was no longer 
trading, he made a claim to FSCS. In March 2019 FSCS declined the claim and told Mr D he 
should complain to Gate. Its not clear why Mr D or his CMC waited almost two years from 
receiving the FSCS outcome to complain to Gate. But Im satisfied the CMC was engaged 
prior to the complaint being made. 
Mr D did tick the box on our complaint form to say he hadnt complained to Gate when he 
referred his complaint to this service in June 2021. Gate says this shows the complaint is out of time. But I think Mr D answered that question in the way it was framed, as he hadnt 
personally complained direct to Gate, the CMC had done so on his behalf. In his initial 
submission Mr D said he was concerned about how long things were taking, so he decided 
to refer his complaint to us direct, but subsequently asked us to amend our records to show 
he was represented. He provided a new LOA signed in April 2021, because this service 
requires evidence that a CMC is regulated. Since April 2019 the FCA became responsible 
for regulating CMCs, so the new LOA reflects the CMCs updated regulatory details in the 
footer. It doesnt mean the CMC only started representing Mr D in April 2021.  
As the CMC had been acting for Mr D in this regard since 2018, Ive no reason to think the 
complaint letter dated 4 February 2021 wasnt sent to Gate with Mr Ds knowledge and 
agreement. And although the address is slightly wrong, I think it was sufficient for it to have 
been delivered to the building which is Gates official address. This is the one recorded on 
the FCA register and Gates own website, even if its not where their operations are 
physically located. It is unfortunate the tracking information is no longer available on the 
Royal Mail website, but on the face of it the CMC has provided proof of delivery, and in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary I think it most likely relates to their letter of 4 February 
2021. The letter gave Gate 40 days in which to respond, (which would have expired in early 
April 2021), at which point the CMC said it would refer Mr Ds complaint to this service. 
When that period elapsed, the CMC didnt immediately refer Mr Ds complaint to this service, 
but that seems to be inefficient administration by the CMC, rather than evidence that the 
complaint was never raised. It seems likely Mr D was aware of the timeframe within which 
Gate should have responded to the complaint, as on 14 May 2021 Mr D emailed our service 
to ask how he could refer a complaint to us. I think Mr D took matters into his own hands due 
to the lack of progress by the CMC. He returned the completed complaint form on 14 June 
2021. 
Gate says the fact it didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint means it couldnt have 
received it. But I dont find this argument persuasive. When Mr D referred his complaint to 
this service, we explained that Gate had to be given eight weeks to investigate his complaint 
and issue him with a final response letter. We emailed Mr Ds complaint to Gate on 18 June 
2021, but Gate did not acknowledge it, nor did they provide a response within the eight-week 
period which expired on 9 August 2021. Mr D contacted us again on 15 August to ask what 
the next steps were, as eight weeks had passed, and Gate hadnt responded. Gate took no 
action until 14 September 2021 when we requested its business file, at which point it 
requested an extension as it needed to retrieve documents from storage. 
Regulated firms like Gate are obliged to respond to complaints in accordance with the FCAs 
DISP rules. And it cannot be right for a firm to claim a complaint was raised too late, simply 
by failing to register or respond to complaints they receive. Despite Gate having no record, 
Im satisfied there is sufficient evidence to say its more likely than not Gate received a 
complaint on behalf of Mr D in February 2021. Which means his complaint was made within 
the relevant time limits, and so this service is able to consider it.
Merits of the complaint 
Gates main argument is that the advice to transfer and the recommendation that half of Mr 
Ds plan be managed by a DFM was suitable. And that the inappropriate investment choices 
by GAM including the GAM6 portfolio are not Gates responsibility. 
I think this was addressed in the provisional decision, but Ill expand my thinking here. The 
initial rationale for the transfer was to consolidate two of Mr Ds pension plans, but this fell 
away as soon as it became clear it didnt make sense to transfer the Abbey Life plan. As 
consolidation was the objective, I cant see why it made sense to split the Fidelity plan into two. The other reason was to improve the plans performance, as at the time Mr D still had 
around 15 years until retirement. But alongside increased growth and flexibility, Mr D wanted 
greater fund security, which Gate says meant reducing his exposure to equities. This is 
repeated in the suitability letter where it says Mr D wished a proportion of his fund to not be 
invested in equities, presumably to reduce risk and volatility.   
If Mr D simply wanted to invest in assets other than equities, Im not persuaded a DFM was 
the only or most appropriate way to achieve this. Gate says Mr D was dissatisfied with the 
performance of the Fidelity plan, but no consideration was given to switching funds within the 
plan. If Fidelity couldnt offer fund choices suitable for Mr D, Vanguard offers a number of 
model portfolios with higher proportions of more stable, less risky investments such as gilts. 
As far as I can see Gate gave no real rationale to explain why Mr D needed any DFM, or 
GAM in particular. DFMs are generally appropriate for high net worth, experienced investors 
whose plans require continual review and rebalancing. Mr D was on a reasonable salary, 
and his finances could be described as comfortable, but I wouldnt consider him to be high 
net worth or needing such close management of his investments. Gate acknowledged the 
DFM arrangement meant higher charges, in addition to their own ongoing fees, and didnt 
really make a convincing argument that the improved performance will be sufficient to 
outweigh the increased risk and higher charges. Gate said Mr D thought higher charges 
would be worth it, without showing he really understood the impact on fund growth the higher 
charges could have, given better investment performance wasnt certain. A DFM 
arrangement can be justified if someone has particularly bespoke requirements, but I cant 
see that applied to Mr D, based on his objectives and circumstances. And Gate hasnt 
explained in the suitability letter which of Mr Ds requirements could only be met through a 
DFM, or that other ways to achieve his objectives had been considered.
There is some overlap in responsibility between an adviser and a DFM. If a DFM is to be 
employed, the adviser is required to set out the investment strategy and the mandate under 
which the DFM will operate, based on the clients objectives, risk appetite and capacity for 
loss. In the suitability letter there is no investment strategy other than Mr D is considered to 
have a balanced attitude to risk. Gate should also have carried out some due diligence on 
the DFM and the investment strategy it follows. The suitability letter focusses on the benefits 
of the Novia SIPP which would allow Mr D access to funds which are more aligned to his 
requirements, and that such funds are not available with Fidelity. But other than saying Mr D 
wanted less exposure to equities, the particular requirements this refers to or what type of 
investments would meet them wasnt specified.
In the appendix to the suitability letter theres some analysis on Vanguard and its model 
portfolios. It set out the benefits to Mr D of the arrangement, including extensive 
diversification of investment options, cost effective charges and automatic rebalancing. This 
would appear to meet all of Mr Ds objectives, so its still not clear why Gate thought a DFM 
arrangement was also necessary. The section about GAM and Portfolio 6 is much briefer, 
and the initial paragraph appears to quote from GAMs own literature a this full-time 
management provides you with the assurance your investments are in safe hands. Theres 
no appraisal by Gate of what GAM provides and why its suitable for Mr D, or why any other 
arrangement wouldnt equally mean Mr Ds investments were in safe hands. 
GAM6 is described (again I think by GAM itself rather than Gate), as offering investments 
which perform independently of major markets and provides clients of financial advisers 
with access to alternative investments. It goes on to explain that GAM6 allows investors to 
gain exposure to both non-correlated and niche investments, without explaining what these 
are, or how such investments would meet Mr Ds objective of fund security. 
Gate said the combination of the Vanguard and GAM6 portfolios very slightly reduced the 
risk profile of Mr Ds portfolio overall. But as Gate didnt know anything about the niche investments within the GAM6 portfolio I cant see how this conclusion couldve been arrived 
at. There is no detail about the investment mandate the DFM would operate within, and no 
analysis or due diligence about GAMs track record or the performance of the GAM6 
portfolio, and the niche investments it involved. 
I explained in the provisional decision that in August 2015 when the investments were 
acquired, Gate was still the servicing agents on Mr Ds plan. It seems as soon as the transfer 
was complete Gate paid little attention to the investments the DFM made, to ensure they 
were in line with their investment strategy (such as it was). Gate says concerns about 
minibonds were only known much later. But I think Gate must have known that while UK 
government bonds, (or those of other financially stable countries) are generally low risk, 
corporate bonds are riskier. The level of risk will vary, as bonds issued by established and 
profitable companies will be regarded as less risky than smaller companies with no track 
record, such as those within GAM6. There was a lack of diversity in the GAM6 investments, 
and two of them were invested overseas. I cant see that just because these were not 
equities, Gate wouldve thought niche investments such as corporate bonds were suitable 
for someone who wanted greater fund security or that it matched Mr Ds balanced ATR. I 
dont think its fair for Gate to simply say they didnt know what the DFM would do, or that it 
had gone rogue. I cant say GAM went outside of the agreed mandate, as there appeared 
to be no such agreement or parameters within which it would operate.
So having considered the evidence again, I still dont think Gate did enough to ensure this 
more costly arrangement and the alternative, niche investments in the portfolio were suitable 
for Mr D, and that his objectives couldnt be achieved another way.
Gate has also said that when Mr D switched advisers to Simply Retirement, the new adviser 
didnt review the investments or move Mr D out of the bonds prior to them becoming illiquid. 
We would expect a consumer to take reasonable steps to mitigate their loss. But so soon 
after the initial investment I wouldnt expect Mr D to consider he had made a loss. And from 
the evidence Ive seen, the adviser explained to Mr D he couldnt advise on the GAM6 
portfolio, as it wasnt on his firms secure list of funds into which they had conducted their 
own due diligence. The adviser said GAM6 offered alternative investments suitable for 
high-net-worth clients and sophisticated investors, which Mr D wasnt. I think if the new 
adviser knew this, then Gate should have known too, and not recommended it for Mr D. In 
the welcome letter in November 2015 the new adviser explained the alternative investments 
within the GAM6 portfolio had been made on the understanding theyd be held for five years, 
which suggests it would be difficult to switch out in the near term, even if they hadnt yet 
been declared illiquid. 
And at the first review in May 2016 the new adviser explained he had no arrangement in 
place with GAM, so was unable to manage those investments on the Novia platform. This 
was confirmed by GAM in its note from March 2016 for a client to fall under Portfolio Sixs 
service offering, Greyfriars are the only party permitted to place instructions on the Novia 
Platform.
The adviser didnt consider the investments to be suitable for Mr D, one reason being the 
lack of diversity, saying that even if his whole portfolio was in one cautious asset class it 
would still mean having all his eggs in one basket, which itself creates additional risk. I 
dont consider the adviser dithered, as he was unable to switch Mr D out of them. And so I 
cant fairly say Gates liability ended when the new adviser took over, as he wasnt able to 
mitigate Mr Ds loss. 
Gate says I have failed to follow an established approach and cited two decisions issued by 
ombudsman colleagues, and its not sufficient to simply dismiss this by saying each case is 
assessed on its merits. I did briefly review those cases - both involved a different DFM not GAM. One wasnt upheld, as the ombudsman was satisfied there was evidence the DFM 
departed from its own mandate, which was outside of Gates control. The other complaint 
was upheld, but the redress capped. In that case the ombudsman was satisfied Gate had 
conducted some due diligence into that DFM, including checking out the pedigree of those 
running the business and asking questions rather than simply accepting the DFMs 
marketing literature. Gate then had concerns about the way the DFM was operating, so 
advised its clients to switch while the investments were liquid. 
I think this actually demonstrates that each case is considered on its own facts and merits, 
and that the aim for consistency doesnt mean cases with similarities will be dealt with the 
same. As highlighted in those two cases it was precisely the lack of an agreed investment 
strategy from which GAM departed, or evidence that Gate carried out any due diligence or 
questioning of GAM or the GAM6 portfolio, and that it appeared to simply replicate its 
marketing literature without any analysis, that this case has a different outcome to those two. 
So for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Gate didnt act in Mr Ds best interests in 
recommending the transfer, and that but for Gates advice Mr D wouldnt have been in the 
DFM arrangement, and so Gate is responsible for his loss. 
Im not aware if Mr D wishes to complain about his new advisers. But I can reassure Gate 
that if he was to raise a complaint against them which was upheld, it would be usual for any 
redress already received to be factored into any redress calculation, to avoid double 
enrichment. And if Gate Capital believes other parties have contributed to Mr Ds loss which 
I am requiring them to compensate him for, it is free to pursue those parties. 
So my decision on jurisdiction is that Mr Ds complaint was raised in time. And I uphold the 
complaint and require Gate to put things right as set out below. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr D as close as possible to the position hed probably be in if he had been 
given suitable advice, which I think would have been to remain with his previous provider 
(Fidelity). Mr D had the option to switch into other funds, but for simplicity Ive based my 
award on him remaining invested in the same way as the original plan. 
As the two investments within Mr Ds SIPP have performed differently, each element has 
been set out separately below.
To compensate Mr D fairly Gate Capital Group Limited should do as follows:
The 49% originally invested in Vanguard,
Compare the performance of that sum as if it had remained invested in the Vanguard 
LifeStrategy 60% equity model portfolio until the date of my final decision with the 
benchmark below, from the date of transfer to Novia to the date of my final decision.
I recognise Mr D actually transferred his funds away from Vanguard in June 2017 
and the gain or loss at that point can be calculated. But I dont know how that part of 
the fund was subsequently invested, and any decisions about that werent Gate 
Capitals. Having considered the alternatives (such as using an alternative index), I 
feel the fairest way to allow for the ongoing impact of any gain or loss in 2017 is to compare what would have happened if this part of the fund had remained invested as 
Gate Capital advised him to do.
If the outcome of that comparison is the notional value of the Vanguard investment is 
greater than the notional value of the Fidelity investment then theres been no loss 
and no compensation is payable, but the notional gain (Value A) will be factored into 
the overall redress.
If the outcome is that the fair value of the Vanguard investment is less than the fair 
value of the Fidelity investment, then Mr D has suffered a loss and compensation is 
payable (Value B). 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start date)To (end 
date)
Novia SIPP 
(Vanguard 
LifeStrategy 
60% equity 
model 
portfolio)No 
longer 
existsNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider 
(Fidelity)Date of 
transfer 
(June 
2015)Date of 
final 
decision 
Fair value (Vanguard element)
Two fair values are necessary here. One is the notional value of the 49% transfer value of 
Mr Ds Fidelity plan which was invested with Vanguard in 2015, as if it had remained with 
Fidelity and invested as it originally was. Gate should ask Fidelity to calculate this figure, I 
understand it performed such a calculation for Mr Ds CMC in 2018. 
The other is the notional value of the 49% transfer value of Mr Ds Fidelity plan which was 
invested with Vanguard in 2015, as if it had remained in its LifeStrategy 60% equity model 
portfolio throughout.
The 49% invested with GAM6
Compare the performance of that sum as if it had remained with benchmark below 
invested as it originally was. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value then no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, then Mr D has suffered a loss and 
compensation is payable (Value C) 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date)To (end date)
Novia SIPP 
(GAM6 
portfolio)Still exists 
but illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
transfer 
(June 
2015)Date of final 
decision
Actual value (GAM6 element)This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the 
end date, the portfolio or some of the assets are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the 
portfolio/asset. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. 
Gate Capital should take ownership of the illiquid portfolio/asset by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount paid should be 
included in the actual value before compensation is calculated. If Gate Capital is 
unable to purchase the portfolio/asset the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. 
Gate Capital may wish to require that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the portfolio/asset in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Gate Capital will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Notional value (GAM6 element) 
This is the value of the 49% transfer value of Mr D's Fidelity plan had it remained with 
the previous provider until the end date. Gate Capital should request that the 
previous provider Fidelity calculates this value.  
For the Novia SIPP to be closed and further fees avoided, the illiquid assets need to 
be removed. Ive set out above how that might be achieved. But, if Gate Capital is 
unable to take ownership of any illiquid investments (and they cant otherwise be 
removed from the SIPP), theyll remain in the SIPP. I dont think it would be fair for Mr 
D to have to pay ongoing SIPP fees when the SIPP only exists because of unsuitable 
advice. If the SIPP cant be closed Gate Capital should pay Mr D a lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the 
previous year to date), which is a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be 
closed.
Then do as follows to arrive at the net compensation figure:
Take Value C, and depending on whether a notional gain or loss arose from the 
Vanguard element, adjust the loss expressed in Value C by either reducing it by 
Value A or increasing it by Value B = net compensation (Value D)
If the calculation above shows Mr D has suffered an overall loss, Gate Capital should 
pay a sum equivalent to Value D into Mr Ds pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Gate Capital is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I understand Mr Ds earnings 
mean he was a higher rate taxpayer at the time of the advice but based on his 
income requirements in retirement I think its reasonable to assume that hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. Neither party challenged this assumption in response to the provisional 
decision.  
However, if Mr D wouldve been able to take a lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. This is 
just a notional deduction, so Mr D receives the appropriate compensation, he wont 
be able to reclaim this sum from HMRC. 
In addition, Gate Capital should pay Mr D £250 for the distress caused by the losses 
arising from the illiquid investments and the worry and distress this would have 
caused him. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr D in a clear, simple format. 
Additional interest
Gate Capital should pay 8% simple per year on the total compensation amount from date of 
final decision to date of settlement (if not settled within 28 business days of being advised of 
Mr Ds acceptance). 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gate Capital deducts tax from the 
interest element it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Gate Capital should give 
Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he requests one, so he can claim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation up to £160,000, plus any interest 
and/or costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than 
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out in the steps above. I would additionally require Gate Capital 
to pay Mr D compensation on that sum as set out above in full. 
Where the compensation already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Gate Capital to 
pay interest on £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000 I recommend Gate Capital pays Mr D the balance and any additional interest 
in full. 
If Mr D accepts my final decision it becomes binding on both parties, But my 
recommendation would not be binding. Further its unlikely that Mr D could accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr D may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept the final decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Gate Capital Group Limited should put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman