DRN-2658902
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading under a different business name) 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out alongside a mortgage in 1986. The 
policy couldve protected Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs D mainly said that PPI was mis-sold because it was recommended to them but 
not properly explained. They said that if the advisor had explained the policy costs and 
benefits, as it had a duty to do, then Mr and Mrs D wouldve been aware that they already 
had enough cover in place and didnt need PPI. Theyre unhappy because they told 
Santander that their mortgage was a huge financial commitment for them and they couldnt 
afford to take on any unnecessary costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs D are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs D to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. So what Mr and Mrs D say about the way they 
were sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened taking into 
account all the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking 
about what we know about these types of sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs D a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs D 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Santander couldnt confirm how it sold this PPI. Mr and Mrs D told us they recalled the 
advisor talking to them about PPI during a meeting  so that may well be when it was sold to 
them. In any event, Santander says its advisor wouldve discussed PPI with Mr and Mrs D 
and that its advisor recommended PPI to them. So I've kept that in mind when thinking about 
this complaint. 
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D wouldve had to apply 
separately for the cover if they wanted to have it. They wouldve had a choice of cover 
options: accident, sickness and unemployment or accident and sickness only. And they also 
needed to choose whether to take out the policy just for one of them or to share the policy 
benefits. So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs D that it was up to 
them to say if they wanted to take out PPI.
And I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve felt PPI was useful in their particular 
circumstances. Their mortgage was a major financial commitment that they probably 
expected to be paying for a number of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring 
their monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if they couldnt work. And it looks 
like they couldve had a use for the policy if one or both of them wasnt able to work. 
So think its likely that Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to have the security and peace of 
mind that PPI offered and that the policy was added to the account when they chose the 
cover they wanted to have. 
As Santander says it recommended the PPI it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs D and give them important policy information they needed 
to know in a clear way.
Looking at the likely policy terms that applied, Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policy. 
Mr and Mrs D were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage repayments. So, 
I think its likely that the policy benefit mightve been split between them as Mr and Mrs D 
told us. And looking at their complaint this way gives their complaint the best chance of 
succeeding  so given the limited information thats available, I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. 
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr D and/or Mrs D was unable to 
work as a result of accident or sickness. This was much longer than they told us they 
couldve relied on getting sick pay through work. So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs D 
significantly better cover than if they had just been relying on their respective employers. 
And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits which I think Mr and Mrs D 
mightve found helpful if they had faced some extra costs as a result of one or both of them 
being at home ill or with a disability. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from their employers wouldnt have helped 
Mr and Mrs D if they were off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money they mightve got if theyd lost their jobs, giving Mr and Mrs D some 
additional financial security in those circumstances.
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve felt it was useful having PPI to protect their 
mortgage. 
I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely on if one or both of them wasnt able 
to work. Its possible they put some of their own money towards the costs of buying their new home. If didnt invest all their savings to reduce their borrowing that makes me think they 
mightve had other plans for that money. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs D could depend on 
being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other things or to provide financial 
security for the future. So I think they wouldve likely valued that extra benefit PPI provided.
After thinking carefully about everything theyve told me about their circumstances, I think 
having PPI couldve been helpful for Mr and Mrs D at the time, even if theyve forgotten now 
why they decided to have it. 
Its possible some of the information Mr and Mrs D were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look 
as if they applied to Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances. So I dont think having more information 
about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs D at the time they bought the 
policy. But it looks like they chose to have the policy so it seems Mr and Mrs D were happy 
at the time to pay for the cover they selected. I can understand that finances were 
probably stretched when they bought their new home. But I havent seen anything to make 
me think that paying for the policy resulted in money problems for Mr and Mrs D. And they 
couldve cancelled the policy and got a full refund within the first 30 days  and cancelled it 
at any time afterwards at no extra cost if they decided it wasnt something they wanted to 
pay for each month.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs D still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave Mr and Mrs D useful protection in their particular situation. 
This means I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that Mr and Mrs D have lost out 
as a result of anything that Santander did wrong when it sold them the PPI. 
So Santander doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman