DRN-3810885
The complaint
Mr D complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wouldnt accept a Continuing Power 
of Attorney (CPOA) from him. Mr D brings this complaint with the assistance of his attorneys 
who are also his parents. For ease of read I shall mostly refer to these representatives in the 
decision as the attorneys.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 November 2022. Ive set out what I 
said below. 
Mr D had a CPOA drawn up, appointing his parents as his attorneys to manage his affairs 
whilst he was overseas. The CPOA was lodged with RBS, but the bank raised a query about 
it. RBS said the CPOA only appeared to become actionable once Mr D became physically or 
mentally incapable, which wasnt the same as him being overseas - so they wished to seek 
confirmation of Mr Ds situation. The attorneys said the CPOA had been correctly drawn up, 
and specifically to cover Mr D being overseas. But agreed to go back to their solicitors to 
check.
The solicitors responded  they said theyd checked the position with the Office of Public 
Guardian (OPG) and the powers under the CPOA could be exercised by the attorneys where 
the person granting them was abroad.
The attorneys reverted to RBS via its online chat facility to relay this information but say the 
service they received was extremely poor. For example, there werent any records of the 
previous chats about the CPOA which meant they had to start from the beginning and the 
member of staff wasnt interested in seeing a copy of what the solicitors had sent. Instead, 
she said the banks legal team would conduct its own review and make a decision. The bank 
suggested Mr Ds attorneys could be added to the account as third parties and manage the 
account that way.
The attorneys thought the bank was unhelpful and complained.
 
RBS responded  it said its legal team didnt think it had done anything wrong insofar as the 
CPOA was concerned. The wording of the document indicted to it that the attorneys could 
only act if Mr D lost capacity to manage his affairs. So, this was the only circumstance in 
which the attorneys could use their powers. But as Mr D hadnt lost capacity it wasnt able to 
add the CPOA. But it agreed to pay £130 for the poor customer service that had been 
provided.
Mr D didnt accept this  he felt RBS had got things wrong and hed been treated unfairly. 
So, with the assistance of his parents/attorneys he referred his complaint to our service. In 
doing so, he explained hed come close to completing a property purchase and that while 
this had ultimately fallen through, the delay in dealing with this issue had caused significant 
distress and inconvenience should the attorneys have needed to act.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She said shed made some enquiries of 
the OPG and Citizens Advice Bureau and felt RBS ought to have accepted the CPOA to 
cover the situation Mr D said he needed it for. She referenced the wording on the CPOA 
which said,
I considering that in the event of my being unable for any reason in future to deal with my 
own affairs or being incapable in terms of the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 
The investigator said that ideally the continuing clause should commence if unable for any 
reason in future to deal with my own affairs.
And that there was no reason why the CPOA couldnt be accepted for the purpose Mr D 
needed it for. She added that as this was a Continuing CPOA it didnt rely on the granter 
losing physical or mental capacity to become effective. So, she asked RBS to review its 
position.
RBS didnt agree. It said it wasnt comfortable changing its interpretation for a number of 
reasons. In summary, it explained that there were two options for when a CPOA comes into 
force. Straight away regardless of incapacity, or only when the person has lost capacity, and 
that came down to how the CPOA was worded.
It accepted that a CPOA could be used where the person granting it still had capacity, and 
that aligned with our investigator research. But the problem it had was that whilst the 
wording in Mr Ds CPOA was standard, it felt it was unclear about when it should kick in. 
Whilst it did include or in the opening wording, it went on to discuss how incapacity was to 
be assessed / decided upon and it didnt believe that wording was normally included if the 
CPOA was to come into force straight away (regardless of capacity). It said that this 
ultimately came down to interpretation and in its opinion the CPOA could be interpreted only 
coming into effect on Mr Ds loss of capacity.
RBS felt that accepting the CPOA whilst Mr D has capacity would carry a risk to the bank. 
But to help resolve things it reiterated it could still add Mr Ds parents as third parties to his 
account, which would be the quickest way of giving them access to manage Mr Ds 
account(s). Or Mr D could get a new CPOA drawn up that wasnt dependent on him losing 
capacity and it would be willing to cover all reasonable costs associated with the latter option 
(of up to £1,000). It also referenced a general power of attorney.
Our investigator reconsidered things and felt that the bank had proposed a reasonable 
resolution in agreeing to cover the costs of drawing up another CPOA. However, Mr D didnt 
accept this and requested a decision.
RBS proposed one other option. It said it would be willing to accept a letter from the 
solicitors that drafted the CPOA addressed to the bank (to be held on file) that would set out 
their interpretation of the CPOA. That is was intended to come into force on registration and 
not only on loss of capacity. RBS said any such letter wouldnt validate or rectify the original 
CPOA for the bank, but it would give some reassurance that it had tried to mitigate the risks 
associated with accepting the CPOA and help to resolve the dispute. It added it would be 
willing to cover all reasonable costs associated with this option.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CPOA
Its clear from reading everything, both parties feel very strongly about their respective 
positions. Mr D doesnt believe there is an error with the CPOA only RBSs interpretation of it. I appreciate his strength of feeling, not least because he says other institutions have 
accepted the document without question. But it may help here to explain that this service is 
an informal alternative to the courts for deciding complaints against financial businesses. Its 
not our role to decide whether this document is valid or whether it achieves the purpose Mr 
D says it was intended for. Thats something better addressed legally. Instead  my role is to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint against 
RBS. The starting point for that is that I have to decide whether RBS has acted fairly in how 
it dealt with the CPOA.
From what Ive seen, RBS considered the CPOA  it referred it to their legal department who 
in turn explained the difficulties it had in interpreting it the way Mr D thought it should. Its 
provided a detailed response and having reviewed that I dont think its said anything thats 
arbitrary or it hasnt been able to support, even if Mr D takes a different view. It considered 
the document and had concerns, which it treated seriously and having done so  said it 
couldnt accept this. Thats a decision I think it was entitled to make and one that it made 
fairly. So, my provisional finding on this issue is that I dont think RBS was unreasonable.
Resolving matters
When responding to Mr Ds concerns, RBS suggested the attorneys could be added as third 
parties to help manage the account. I know that wouldnt have replicated the powers in the 
CPOA, but I think it was genuinely trying to assist Mr D with a workaround solution. More 
recently its suggested a number of other options, which Ive reviewed.
I can appreciate why drafting another CPOA would be difficult given Mr Ds location. But the 
banks offer to accept a letter from the solicitors that drafted the CPOA, setting out their 
interpretation of the CPOA and that it was intended to come into force on registration and not 
only on loss of capacity seems a fair and reasonable way to resolve this dispute given the 
impasse thats been reached. Itll assist both parties in providing a way forward.
The effect of such a letter would negate the need for Mr D to draw up another CPOA and 
allow his attorneys to operate the account while reassuring RBS that it has taken steps to 
mitigate the risks it feels there are associated with accepting the CPOA in isolation. RBS has 
said it will cover all reasonable costs associated with drawing up the letter, which is 
reasonable in that it doesnt impose costs on Mr D.
Customer service
RBS has already accepted there were some shortcomings in its customer service and paid 
£130 when addressing the complaint. Any compensation would ordinarily be payable to Mr D 
and not the attorneys under our rules as its Mr D who is the banks customer. But in any 
event, Im not going to require the bank to pay any additional compensation here given my 
overall findings about the banks handling of the CPOA. And because any difficulties, such 
as, frustration and inconvenience in raising the complaint about this have in my view been 
adequately addressed in the payment that was made.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer 
which I consider is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Its offered to accept 
a letter from Mr Ds solicitors (as detailed above) and cover all reasonable costs associated 
with it. When responding to my provisional decision, I invite Mr D through his 
parents/attorneys to provide an estimate of how much such a letter will cost him and for The 
Royal Bank of Scotland to clarify any monetary limit to costs (in that is this also up to a 
maximum of £1,000 on production of a bill/quote) and any other information it feels would be 
relevant in the letter.RBS of Scotland responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision and didnt have 
anything further to add. 
Mr D said hed been in touch with his solicitor and they could write a letter but wanted to 
know if this needed to be on headed paper or could be an email? He also required an 
address of where to send the letter to. The estimated costs of the work were £170 plus VAT. 
Mr D said he accepted my provisional decision but wanted the bank to act on the CPOA 
once in receipt of the letter and for it to cover his solicitors costs for the work connected to 
the letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To confirm the letter wouldnt replace the CPOA. The effect of such a letter would negate the 
need for Mr D to draw up another CPOA and allow his attorneys to operate the account 
while reassuring RBS that it has taken steps to mitigate the risks it feels there are associated 
with accepting the CPOA in isolation. 
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I adopt it fully as part of this final 
decision. Im satisfied the RBS has already made an offer which is a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve this complaint. Its offered to accept a letter from Mr Ds solicitors that drafted the 
CPOA, setting out their interpretation of the CPOA and that it was intended to come into 
force on registration and not only on loss of capacity. It has also agreed to cover all 
reasonable costs associated with the letter. Mr D has indicated this will be around £170 plus 
VAT. Though Id like RBS to note there might be some variation if this takes too much time. 
Given the banks position, which I outlined my thoughts on above, the information from the 
solicitor will need to be in a letter not an email and be on headed paper addressed to RBS. 
To help things run smoothly I am requiring RBS to contact Mr D when it receives this 
decision to make arrangements to provide him with the details that might reasonably be 
required to facilitate this letter/resolution.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer which Im 
satisfied is fair and reasonable. Its said it will accept a letter from Mr Ds solicitors (as 
detailed above) and cover all reasonable costs associated with it, on production of an 
invoice. I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to contact Mr D when it receives this 
decision to make arrangements to provide him with the details that might reasonably be 
required to facilitate this letter/resolution.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman