DRN-3761516
The complaint
Mrs M brings this complaint on behalf of her son Mr M and complains HSBC UK Bank plc 
(HSBC) failed to apply a spending cap on her sons bank account. 
What happened
Mrs M says she opened a bank account in branch for her son in early April 2019 and was 
told at that time, there would be a £30 daily spending cap on the account. Mrs M says in 
October 2021 she discovered her son had spent over £1,800 over a period of a couple of 
months on gaming products/services well in excess of the limit she believed was in place. 
Mrs M says HSBC failed to apply the spending cap, failed to flag unusual activity on her 
sons bank account, or safeguard a vulnerable child with appropriate blocks, or send alert 
messages. 
Mrs M says it was difficult for her to gain access to her sons bank account but didnt feel the 
need to check his account activity, given she believed the cap was in place. Mrs M feels 
HSBC need to offer a fair resolution and the £100 it offered doesnt go far enough. 
HSBC says there wasnt any daily spending cap for her sons bank account, as he was over 
the age of 11 and this was detailed in the terms and conditions of the account that Mrs M 
had agreed to and had third party access. HSBC says while it has no record of a member of 
staff informing Mrs M that a £30 daily spending cap would be put in place, it had offered her 
£100 for any potential wrong information received in branch. 
HSBC says no fraudulent payments were made from her sons account and Mrs M had 
agreed a debit card could be issued to him. HSBC says her son in October 2020, made 
payments from his bank account above the £30 cap she believed was in place and these 
had never been questioned by her. HSBC says Mrs M would have access to her sons 
account as a third party, so she could have checked the account activity. HSBC says it 
doesnt complete manual monitoring of accounts but does have controls to detect fraud but 
there was none here. HSBC doesnt feel it has done anything wrong. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt from the evidence he had seen there was no spending cap in place on Mrs 
Ms sons bank account with HSBC, that only applied to applicants under the age of 11. The 
investigator says he couldnt be certain any member of staff would have said a £30 cap was 
in place, as in any event the cap was set at £50 for those aged under 11. The investigator 
pointed out that her son was the eligible complainant and not her. 
The investigator felt her son was the account holder and could find no evidence to suggest 
he didnt want the transactions to go through and had benefited from those. The investigator 
says the transactions werent fraudulent and even if HSBC had contacted her son to 
authorise any of the payments it wouldnt have made any difference. While the investigator 
agreed it may have been difficult for Mrs M to monitor her sons bank account, as the 
account was in her sons name he could administer the account as he was allowed to under 
the account terms and conditions.  
The investigator says Mrs Ms son had applied for online banking as he was free to do, 
meaning statements were available to him to view online. The investigator also went on to 
say HSBCs process doesnt require one-time pass codes (OTPC) for all transactions and 
none of the transactions were fraudulent in any event. The investigator felt HSBC had acted 
within its terms and conditions and he wouldnt be asking them to refund any of the 
transactions made by her son.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view and felt he hadnt considered her son was a 
vulnerable person and the account activity should have flagged to HSBC, there was 
compulsive spending behaviour. 
The investigator says there was no evidence to suggest HSBC were made aware of any 
compulsive spending concerns for Mrs Ms son and if it had, the investigator felt HSBC 
would have taken necessary steps to help, but that wouldnt mean HSBC would have to stop 
any spending on the account. The investigator made the point that even if HSBC had 
attempted to flag this with Mrs Ms son, in all likelihood he would have authorised the 
transactions.  
Mrs M asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs M to have discovered her son had 
spent all of his savings on computer game coins and that the spending cap on his bank 
account, she believed was in place, wasnt. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
HSBC were at fault for allowing the transactions on Mrs Ms sons bank account to be 
processed without further checks being implemented.  
Mrs M and HSBC have provided this service with comprehensive details and information 
regarding this complaint and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every 
point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
Thats not to say I havent considered everything  I have. 
There are a number of issues Mrs M has raised concerning this complaint, but the key areas 
the complaint centres around are that : 
 A daily spending cap was not applied to her sons account.
 HSBC failed to flag any unusual/compulsive spending activity. 
 No controls were in place to safeguard her son.
 It was impossible for her to obtain third party access to her sons account.
I understand the points Mrs M makes here and I will consider each of these points 
individually. Firstly, regarding the spending cap Mrs M refers to, she told this service that she was 
informed on opening the account in 2019, a daily £30 spending cap would be put in place. 
Like the investigator having looked at the account opening forms and terms and conditions 
of the account, there is no mention of a £30 daily cap. What I can see is the terms and 
conditions state,  if your child is under 11 we will require your consent for withdrawals and 
transfers of £50 or more from a MySavings account. Mrs Ms son was just over 11 at the 
time of the account opening and 13 when the transactions took place, so although Mrs M 
believed this restriction was in place, unfortunately that wasnt the case here. 
Additionally, in the welcome pack for 11-17-year-olds that Mrs M and her son would have 
been given at the time of opening, it states: your parent or guardian may access your 
account to get information to help you manage your finances, although they cannot withdraw 
your money. 
This suggests this bank account is designed for the account holder Mr M to operate, without 
the need of any further authorisation from Mrs M. 
HSBC have taken the view here while theres no record of any of its staff ever mentioning a 
£30 daily cap, it would as a gesture offer Mrs M £100 by way of apology for any potential 
misunderstanding at that time, and so without any other evidence being available here, I am 
satisfied on balance, that was a reasonable and fair offer made by HSBC in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs M also feels HSBC have failed to recognise what she believes is obvious unusual and/or 
compulsive spending activity on her sons bank account, as recognised by Gamble Aware 
and the Financial Conduct Authority. The first thing to say is the conduct of Mrs Ms sons 
bank account and the transactions passing through it wouldnt be considered as gambling, 
nor have any of these transactions been contested by the account holder or Mrs M as 
unlawful in anyway. Mrs M has made the point her son was a vulnerable child, but its 
reasonable to say that simply being a minor wouldnt prevent her son holding or operating a 
bank account and this had been authorised by her, with third party access.
While Mrs M says when she discussed this with her son, he was regretful that hed spent his 
money on gaming coins, theres nothing to suggest he didnt wish these transactions to take 
place at the time and he received the items he purchased. From the bank account 
statements I have seen, I cant say that simply because her son made several transactions 
for computer games/products, that on its own, would necessarily suggest there was a 
problem that needed identifying by HSBC. HSBC have confirmed it does have a number of 
system controls to detect fraud rather than the volume and usage of its customers accounts, 
which is what I would expect here. Its also worth saying HSBC would have no general 
obligation to monitor or curb a customers spending in that way, for what after all were 
legitimate authorised transactions.
As far as Mrs Ms point regarding controls and alerts not being in place, HSBC have told this 
service its processes wouldnt ordinarily have one-time passcodes sent for all its customer 
transactions. Its fair to say even if an alert like this had been sent, it would have been sent 
to Mr M, and I cant discount the possibility he would have authorised them at that time. 
While I can see it may have been difficult for Mrs M to access her sons bank account after 
he had opted for online banking, that was permissible for him to do, under the bank account 
terms and conditions. That said while it may have been inconvenient for Mrs M to have to 
either telephone HSBC, visit the branch or indeed speak to her son, it wasnt  impossible 
for her to gain access or view the account transactions on her sons bank account, if she 
wanted to. But I accept she was under the impression a daily spending cap was in place  
but unfortunately it wasnt here for the reasons I have already explained. Taking this all into account and without trying to minimise the frustration and upset this would 
have undoubtedly caused, I am satisfied HSBC have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms bank account.
While Mrs M and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC, other than to pay the £100 it has already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank plc should pay £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman