DRN-3076617
The complaint
Mr A complains U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Car Insurance (UKI), have 
unfairly turned down a claim on his motor insurance policy.
A representative has supported Mr A in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr A took out a policy with UKI which started on 15 November 2019. On 18 November 2019 
Mr A had been out shopping with his partner. He says after he dropped his partner home a 
group of people he didnt know forcefully took the car from him  and after asking if he had 
any money in his car or in his online accounts (to which he said no) then asked him where 
he wanted to be dropped off. Mr A says he found out later the same evening his car had 
been involved in a serious collision.
The following day, he contacted the police to let them know whatd happened. He said they 
came to interview him, would investigate matters and come back to him  but he didnt hear 
anything further from them.
On 26 November 2019 Mr A contacted UKI to let them know whatd happened. He says he 
spoke to their field investigator on the phone, who sounded friendly, and arranged a 
meeting. Mr A says he didnt want to hold this meeting at his home for personal reasons 
regarding family members. At the meeting he said the investigator started interrogating him 
before he could explain what happened, accused him of lying and was quite intimidating. 
The investigator wanted Mr A to sign some forms but didnt explain what they were for. He 
said he needed to read them through first. The forms were to allow UKI to get a copy of the 
police report for this incident.
These forms were ultimately sent to Mr A by post, and he says he returned them that way, 
but UKI said they never received them. Mr A says he completed the forms again, and then 
emailed them back to UKI. Later on, Mr A says the police got back in touch, and said theyd 
finished their investigations. He said he was never questioned, arrested or considered a 
suspect of having driven the car. He adds that he understands the car was badly damaged 
in the incident, but the police saw him the next day so if he was driving hed have had some 
injuries, but didnt. 
Ultimately UKI cancelled his policy, saying this was because of a lack of co-operation on this 
claim, and because hed not declared an incident in May 2017 when taking out the policy. 
They also turned down Mr As claim.
UKI said, in summary:
Mr A initially refused to complete forms allowing them to get the police report at an 
early stage  and is required to co-operate with any claim under the terms of the 
policy.
The investigator denied being aggressive to Mr A, and said it was actually Mr A being 
aggressive to him, refused to sign the forms and wasnt happy to give his account of 
whatd happened again.
The forms were received on 19 May 2020, and these listed out money and a number 
of other items purchased that day as stolen, but when speaking to the investigator 
said he didnt buy anything that day.
On 26 May 2020 after reading over Mr As account of things they tried to arrange 
phone interviews with his girlfriend and brother. After being provided their details, UKI 
say they were told on 9 June neither party wanted to be interviewed on the phone, 
but would provide a written statement, and then on 11 June that neither party were 
prepared to assist UKI.
UKI said on 11 June 2020 they received a report from the police that said the 
summary of the report was fail to stop road traffic collision.
Overall, UKI said they didnt think events had happened as Mr A set out. They said nor do 
we accept that the alleged assailants would have asked (SIC) you where you wanted to go 
and dropped you off, whilst undertaking a criminal offence. So, they said they felt this was a 
fraudulent claim, and wouldnt meet the cost of it.
One of our Investigators considered everything and found UKI hadnt acted unreasonably in 
thinking the fraud condition of their policy had been breached. Because of that, she felt 
theyd acted fairly in saying they wouldnt meet the claim, and in cancelling Mr As policy.
Mr A didnt agree with this, and provided a detailed response setting out why he didnt think 
this was a fair and balanced outcome. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As explanation of events that night is very unusual. He says he was taken by force, 
asked what money he had, and then asked where he wanted to be dropped off. But unusual 
things happen every day. So, just because Mr As story is very unusual, doesnt mean it can 
or should be dismissed without a thorough investigation into the issues that happened.
I think its important to say I cant decide whether Mr A has acted fraudulently (as UKI allege) 
or not. Instead, what Im deciding is whether UKI have acted reasonably in turning down 
Mr As claim following their investigations  and in applying any fraud markers.
UKI have attempted to carry out a thorough investigation. But for reasons Ill go on to 
explain, I dont think theyve been able to do so.After the incident it took around a week for Mr A to contact UKI. Generally, I think most 
people are aware theyd need to report the incident as soon as possible to their insurer. 
Given the particular circumstances I can see why Mr A might not have felt able to do this 
immediately, but I think leaving it a week is unusual  particularly as he spoke to police the 
following day. It seems likely he knew, or should have known, he needed to speak to his 
insurer at this point. Although this hasnt directly affected the claim, I think UKI are seeing 
this as part of the overall picture as to why theyve got questions over what happened.
After reporting it, Mr A and a field investigator met. Both allege the other was aggressive  
Mr A saying the field investigator having already made up their mind about the claim, and the 
field investigator saying Mr A said he wasnt prepared to engage with his questions. I cant 
know for certain what happened, but I can see the meeting finished without getting the 
necessary forms completed. I do understand Mr As perspective here, in that he wanted to 
read them before signing them  which, of course, isnt unreasonable. But, again, this could 
potentially feed into UKIs overall concerns which I dont think would be unfair  particularly if 
theyve previously used this same field investigator without any allegations they acted the 
way Mr A has said they did.
In a statement made to the field investigator, Mr A explains the thieves asked if he had any 
money on him and he said no. He didnt declare that anything had been bought while 
shopping either. Later on, when claiming on his policy, Mr A said a number of items bought 
while shopping, and £400 worth of money, had been taken by the thieves. I understand Mr A 
disputes the information provided by the field investigator. But when contacting our service in 
December 2020 (over a year after the incident) Mr A gave a summary of events and referred 
to a statement provided to the police. This statement makes no reference to items bought 
while shopping or the £400  which is the same as what the field investigator has reported. 
So, I dont think UKI are acting unfairly in thinking this is contradictory information.
The circumstances of the theft meant UKI wanted to interview Mr As partner and family 
member. Both initially said they were prepared to do so. But, then decided they werent 
prepared to do phone interviews and would do a written statement instead. Two days after 
saying this, they then said they werent prepared to do that either. UKI said they got told 
within minutes of each other they wouldnt provide a statement. Mr A asks what UKI are 
inferring from this, as there was no collusion, and had UKI handled things properly theyd 
have got their statements. I take Mr As point, but I do think its unusual for two parties, which 
Mr A say didnt speak to each other, to change their mind and communicate that within a few 
minutes of each other. From UKIs perspective, I dont think its unreasonable for them to 
think that unusual. And, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think I could confidently say 
UKI have made mistakes or not handled things properly.
Summary
In any unusual claim I think the insurer will perhaps need to ask more questions to get a 
clear understanding of exactly whats happened. And, as Ive said above, the circumstances 
Mr A has outlined are very unusual. During the course of the claim, UKIs perspective is that 
Mr A and others havent co-operated with their investigations  and theyve got questions 
that havent been answered.
UKI have ultimately turned down the claim and cancelled Mr As policy due to a lack of co-
operation on this claim, and because he didnt declare an accident he was involved in in 
May 2017. Theres a clause in the policy which says if UKI believes Mr A has acted 
fraudulently or not co-operated in a claim then theyre allowed to do this. Given what Ive 
outlined above, I dont think UKI have acted unreasonably in having outstanding questions 
regarding this claim, or in taking the action they have  including applying a fraud marker.If there is further co-operation from Mr A or the other parties, then Id expect UKI to 
reconsider the claim. But, with the outstanding questions they have, I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly in turning it down at this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman