DRN-4168462
The complaint
Ms M complains that it was irresponsible for Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com (George Banco) to accept her as a guarantor for a loan.
What happened
Ms M was accepted by George Banco as guarantor for a loan in February 2017. The loan 
was for £2,500 and repayable in 36 monthly instalments. The total repayable was £4,820.40.
Ms M signed a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant,
should the borrower be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments, that
George Banco could seek repayment from Ms M. I understand Ms M repaid the
outstanding balance when the borrower failed to keep up with his repayments.
In this decision I will not be considering whether it was reasonable for George Banco to give
the loan to the borrower. That is a matter between him and the lender. I will only be
considering whether it was reasonable for George Banco to accept Ms M as guarantor for 
the loan.
Ms Ms complaint was assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks 
George Banco had done before accepting Ms M as a guarantor had been proportionate. So 
George Banco wasnt sufficiently aware of Ms Ms financial circumstances at the time and 
that it was unlikely she could sustainably afford the loan repayments should she be required 
to do so as the guarantor. 
As George Banco didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding Ms Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time George Banco added Ms M as a guarantor required it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay
what was owed in a sustainable manner should she be required to do so. This assessment
is sometimes referred to as an affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so George Banco had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms M.
In practice this meant that George Banco had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for George Banco to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back  it 
also had to consider the impact of any repayments on Ms M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are
guaranteeing.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a guarantor might be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
guarantor vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether George Banco did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Ms M acting as guarantor.
Ms M was entering into a significant commitment with George Banco with the possibility that 
she could be required to make monthly repayments for a period of up to three years. So I 
think it was right that George Banco wanted to gather and check information about Ms Ms 
financial circumstances. It asked her for details of her income and monthly housing costs. It 
also checked her credit file to assess how much she was repaying to other creditors. It also 
carried out an affordability calculation, using statistical data to calculate her living costs and 
therefore any disposable income remaining. Based on that it estimated she would have 
around £140 left as disposable income each month.
When responding to the complaint, George Banco said Ms M hadnt been using her 
overdraft. But the credit check evidence shows that at the time of the credit application she 
was making use of a substantial proportion of her £1,000 overdraft each month and had 
been exceeding it in the months before the credit application was made. Since our 
investigators finding, I see Ms M has sent in bank statements for the four months leading up 
to the agreement. These are all consistent in that they show Ms M making near-constant use 
of her overdraft and exceeding it on three occasions.  
In addition, Ive seen that George Bancos credit check showed that a default had been 
added to one of her credit accounts. Recovery of the outstanding sum of around £1,200 was 
being made by way of debt collection processes. 
I agree with our adjudicator that these are both factors that suggest that better checks 
needed to be carry out in order for them to be reasonable and proportionate. As things stood 
there were strong indications that Ms M could easily get into difficulty with being able to 
sustainably repay the loan if called upon to do so. Ive also kept in mind that Ms Ms net 
monthly income was around £1,200. This lends further support to the likelihood that Ms Ms 
financial situation was by no means secure enough to suggest she was in a position to pay 
off the borrowers loan.So I think the initial findings from its checks ought to have prompted George Banco to carry 
out further checks to have a fuller understanding of Ms Ms financial situation and her ability 
to sustainably repay the loan. This might mean, for example, asking a guarantor for 
additional information about their finances before making its lending decision. 
Taking everything into account, I therefore agree that the information George Banco 
gathered showed that it would be unlikely that Ms M would be able to sustainably meet her 
obligations as the guarantor of the loan if she was required to do so. I dont therefore think it 
was reasonable for George Banco to accept her as guarantor for this loan. It follows that 
George Banco needs to pay Ms M some compensation.
Putting things right  what George Banco needs to do
I understand that Ms M repaid the outstanding loan balance when the borrower failed to 
make the required repayments. Whilst I accept that George Banco might not have legally 
required Ms M to fully repay the loan, I think it reasonable to conclude that she
only did so because of her guarantor obligations. So to put things right George Banco 
should;
Refund to Ms M any repayments she has made on this loan.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded repayments from the date they
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
Remove any information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to the loan
If it hasnt already, release Ms M from any obligations under the guarantee and
indemnity agreement and then terminate it
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest.
George Banco must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as GeorgeBanco.com to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman