DRN-3319740
The complaint
Mr H complains Ald Automotive Limited (Ald) unfairly declined his application for car finance 
and also his subsequent appeal.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. And although I have considered all the information 
provided by both parties in detail, Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
As our investigator explained it is reasonable for a lending business to set the criteria it uses 
when it is deciding whether to lend. These decisions are part of its commercial process and 
it isnt appropriate for me to influence these criteria. My role is to consider whether the 
underwriter has acted fairly in dealing with Mr Hs application and followed its own guidelines 
and terms and conditions in making their decision.
I can see Ald has provided the underwriting criteria and as the investigator explained this is 
commercially sensitive and as such, I cant disclose the specifics. But I can see it followed its 
own policies and procedures and having identified a concern, it asked Mr H to check his 
credit file and ensure all the information contained within it was accurate and up to date.
Mr Hs broker then provided additional supporting information by way of an appeal but again 
this did not remove the declined status. From all the evidence I have seen, I have found Ald 
to have followed its own policies and procedures correctly.
As part of the complaint process the underwriters were asked to contact Mr H to have a 
discussion. As a result of that conversation I can see the underwriter reached a decision to 
override the decline status.  This again is a matter for the underwriters at Ald, it reached a 
commercial lending decision after a discussion with Mr H but that doesnt mean that there 
was an error in its earlier decisions.
I didnt find that Ald had unnecessarily delayed the process and so whilst I appreciate this 
was frustrating for Mr H, I havent found that Ald has acted unfairly towards Mr H and so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman