DRN-3441295
The complaint
Mr F complains that Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily didnt transfer his 
individual savings accounts (ISAs) on maturity as requested.
What happened
Mr F completed online transfer forms for his three accounts to be transferred from 
OneFamily to another ISA provider on maturity. Two of his accounts matured on 2 and 14 
July but the transfers didnt happen and were set as pending waiting for the maturity of his 
third account on 12 August. Mr F says he wasnt made aware of the consequences of his 
accounts being put under the ISA wrapper and said he considered each as a separate ISA 
account. He says he should have been free to transfer the money from each account at the 
point of maturity and not have to wait until the final account matured. He says the situation 
meant he wasnt able to earn the interest he expected on his transfer and instead just 
earned the holding account interest.
OneFamily said that Mr F opened an Online ISA on 29 June 2019 with a two-year fixed rate 
product and that customers can only open one Online ISA but can open multiple products 
within it. It said the key information pack explains this. It said Mr F opened two further fixed 
rate products within his ISA on 15 July 2019 and 13 August 2019. 
Mr F wanted to transfer the funds from his accounts that matured on 2 and 14 July but keep 
his third account until maturity on 12 August. OneFamily explained that its terms set out that 
partial transfers werent allowed and that if funds were moved while the final fixed rate 
product was still in place a breakage fee would have been charged. Therefore, when it 
received the request to transfer the funds upon maturity the transfer was put on hold until the 
final product maturity date. It said the transfer was completed on 17 August 2021.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They were satisfied that OneFamily made clear 
how the ISA worked, and that it processed the transfer request in line with the key 
information pack and its terms and conditions. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that while the terms and conditions 
may have been followed it was these terms that he had an issue with. He said the terms 
werent in the interest of the investor who should be able to transfer their ISAs on maturity 
without charge and not be required to have the funds in a holding account until all other 
products had matured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr F is upset and frustrated by the experience he had when transferring 
his ISA to another provided. As has already been explained our role is to assess whether the 
business has done anything wrong in regard to the product it has provided or if it has treated 
Mr F unfairly. I take relevant rules and regulations into account, but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
In this case Mr F opened an Online ISA in June 2019. I have looked at the key information 
pack that would have been available to Mr F and this clearly sets out that only one Online 
ISA will be opened but that this can contain multiple products. Therefore, while I appreciate 
Mr Fs comment about transferring three separate ISAs, given he had opened the Online ISA 
he should have been reasonably aware that he only had one Online ISA and that his money 
would be put into the products within this account. 
Mr F wanted to transfer the money from his different fixed rate producst on maturity. He 
made a request for this to happen and had expected the funds in each of his products to be 
transferred on the individual maturity dates. I understand why Mr F thought this would 
happen and that he believes it only fair that this should happen. But the terms of the Online 
ISA set out that it can only be transferred in full and that partial transfers arent permitted. 
Given this I find that OneFamily didnt do anything wrong by moving the funds from the 
matured fixed rate products to Mr Fs holding account to be held until the final fixed rate 
product matured on 12 August. At this point the transfer request was actioned and while I 
note Mr Fs comment that this didnt happen immediately, as the funds were transferred on 
17 August I find this a reasonable timeframe for the process to be completed in. 
I also note that OneFamily did explain, in response to Mr Fs complaint, that the transfers 
could happen sooner but there would be a breakage fee. This was in line with the terms of 
the account.
I understand that part of Mr Fs complaint is about the underlying structure of the product 
and that he is raising this aspect of his complaint with the Financial Conduct Authority. In 
regard to the issues I have considered I find that Mr F was provided with the information he 
needed to understand he would only have one Online ISA and that there could then be 
separate products beneath this and that the ISA needed to be transferred in full to prevent 
any breakage fees. Given this, and noting the actions taken by OneFamily, I do not find I can 
say it has done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly. 
My final decision
MY final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman