DRN-3431219
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the outcome of his claim against Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some allegedly mis-sold 
solar panels.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr K bought a solar panel system from a supplier that Ill call IS. He 
financed the purchase through an £8,300 seven-year fixed term loan from Omni. He was to 
pay this back at approximately £135 a month. Over the last couple of years, because of the 
pandemic, Mr K has been in financial difficulty, so has been making a reduced monthly 
payment.
Mr K has told us that he was approached by IS salesman through a cold call at his door. 
The salesman told him that the solar panels would not only be an environmentally friendly 
addition to his house but wouldnt cost him anything. He said that they would produce a 
monthly Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) income of £125 - and a £50 government grant each month as 
well. So, with a loan cost of £135, the panels would more than pay for themselves.
A few days after Mr K agreed to the purchase, the fitters turned up and said there had been 
a mistake with the calculations. So, they couldnt fit the original number of panels intended. 
So, Mr K ended up with less panels than he expected. But he says that he was told hed get 
the same FIT income.
The evidence indicates that it was at this point, on 19 November 2017, that a new quotation 
was generated for the smaller solar system. Rather than the £8,400 that the originally quoted 
system would cost, the new system would be £7,800. As the loan was for more than that, IS 
said that Mr K would be given the £500 difference back.
Mr K first complained to IS in 2019, as he thought that the panels cant have been working 
properly, given the income he had received was much less than had been promised. IS sent 
someone out to Mr Ks home to inspect the panels. Some alterations were made as the 
panels werent performing quite as expected - this was thought to be because of some 
shading from a chimney. But Mr K remained unhappy as the panels still werent giving him 
the income that IS salesman had led him to believe hed receive.
Mr K complained to Omni. It couldnt initially deal with his complaint within the eight weeks 
allowed, so it gave Mr K referral rights to our service. Omni ultimately sent its final response 
to the complaint in January 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint and said it didnt have 
sufficient information from Mr K to consider whether there had been a mis-sale and to 
calculate if there had been any loss.
So, Mr K came to our service. Whilst the complaint has been with us, Mr K started 
experiencing financial difficulty. And hes also said that the panels are making a noise that 
was making it difficult for him to sleep. Despite our investigator requesting that Omni arrange 
for IS to send someone to inspect the system, this is yet to happen. And IS initially wanted 
Mr K to pay £200 plus VAT for them to come out, as they said the panels were out of 
warranty.
Our investigator thought that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. And she recommended that 
the panels be made self-funding over a 10-year period. She also recommended that an 
engineer be sent to inspect the solar system and that 8% interest be added to any 
overpayments that Mr K had made. She also said Mr K should be paid £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Omni didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It thought that the finance agreement was 
clear on the cost of the loan. And that the quotation Mr K had received indicated his income 
would be much less than the monthly repayments. It said there was no evidence that Mr K 
had been told anything else by the salesman and that his recollection wasnt enough. It did, 
however, appear to agree that the panels should be inspected.
Omni requested an ombudsmans decision. And the matter came to me. In advance of this 
final decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in which I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. My findings are set out below. Mr K responded to say that he was 
happy with the decision. I didnt hear back from Omni, other than to request additional time 
to arrange an inspection. I denied this request as I considered that any inspection could take 
place after my final decision had been issued. And there was no reason to keep Mr K waiting 
any longer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ill start by saying that I am very disappointed that Omni hasnt accepted that there was 
more likely than not a misrepresentation by IS salesman here. Omni will be aware from 
previous complaints weve dealt with, as well as decisions of mine, that the salesman 
involved in this sale had his employment terminated by IS because he was making false 
statements to customers. So, as a starting point, I would have expected it to have taken Mr 
Ks word for what hed been told. Mr K has been consistent throughout in his testimony that 
the panels would be self-funding. Hes even told us exactly how much the salesman said 
hed get. So, Ive found that misrepresentations were more likely than not made to Mr K.
IS are acutely aware of the problems with this particular salesman. And its very telling that 
one of Mr Ks complaint letters to IS has a handwritten note on the top. In it the IS writer asks 
for the standard response for another customers similar complaint (the name on which looks 
very much like one I upheld at decision) to be sent to Mr K. That response letter was just a 
denial that anything had happened.
I appreciate that there is a quotation document here that sets out the expected monthly 
return on the system, the first years estimate for FIT, export and electric saving being about 
£365. But Ive found that the quote was given to Mr K after hed already agreed to buy the 
panels, following a cold call from the salesman a few days before. He only got the quotation 
document after it was realised that the original number of panels sold couldnt be fitted to his 
roof. So, the number of panels and contract price was reduced. Mr K says he was, however, 
told the benefits that hed get would be the same. I have no reason to doubt this and I have 
found that he wouldnt have bought these panels but for what hed been told by the 
salesman. He had no reason to look at a quotation again after hed agreed to the purchase.
Omni are aware of our approach to solar panel complaints like Mr Ks. So, I dont intend to set out everything that we usually consider in this decision. Suffice to say that Omni are 
responsible under Sections 56 and 75 of the Act for any misrepresentations made by IS 
salesman. In the circumstances of this case, Ive found that Mr K was more likely than not 
told that the panels would pay for themselves over the seven-year term of the loan. The 
figures he was given by the salesman would have achieved this. And I dont consider that he 
would have bought the panels or taken out the loan had this not been the case.
Ive looked at the panels performance. On the limited information that we have available, the 
panels do now appear to be generating electricity as was predicted in the MCS certificate. 
The estimated generation was 2,608 kWh a year and the panels are performing at just under 
2,500 kWh a year. The performance expected can only ever be an estimate, given it is 
dependent on sunlight conditions which are variable. And the generation appears to be 
within a reasonable tolerance of those predictions.
Mr K is receiving FIT and export payment income, as well as electricity savings from the 
energy generated that he uses at home.  But this is at nowhere near the level he was led to 
expect by the salesman. Mr K would like the panels removed and his loan cancelled.
When considering compensation, this isnt an exact science. And theres no set redress that 
we must apply. In Mr Ks case, the panels do appear to be working, although I accept that 
the system is making a disturbing noise. Like our investigator, I think that Omni should 
arrange for an engineer to go out and inspect this, fixing anything that they find to not be 
working correctly  including sorting out the noise. I note that IS have been out once already 
in 2019 to look at the panels. And they did make some changes which appears to have 
resulted in their performance improving. But at the very least, the noise that theyre making 
now isnt normal. And that needs to be investigated.
Regarding the cost of the panels, whilst I note that Mr K would like his loan cancelled and 
the panels removed, that would I think be disproportionate in the circumstances of his 
complaint. The panels do appear to be working and will continue to generate electricity and 
bring Mr K savings and income over their expected 25-year lifespan. FIT and export income 
is paid for 20 years and the electricity savings will continue so long as the system continues 
to function. When determining compensation, we dont look to make the misrepresentations 
true. Instead we provide that the finance company should ensure that the customer doesnt 
lose out because of those misrepresentations.
In Mr Ks case, Ive found that he was told the panels would pay for themselves over the 
term of the loan and thats what I will be requiring Omni makes happen. By making the 
system self-funding, it will be cost neutral for Mr K as hell only pay for the panels what he 
receives in benefits and income from them. In that regard, Ill require that Omni restructure 
his loan so that he pays no more than the benefits hell get from the panels over the seven-
year term of the loan.
In calculating those benefits, it should use the known performance of Mr Ks system as well 
as the standard assumptions it has agreed with our service for how it will perform going 
forward. Ill also require that it calculates any overpayments Mr K has made and that it 
applies these to the loan. It will also need to calculate and apply simple interest at 8% a year 
to those overpayments to reflect Mr Ks loss of use of that money. This should similarly be 
applied to the loan.
I was sorry to hear that Mr K has found himself in financial difficulty during the pandemic. But 
its good to see that Omni appears to be treating him positively and sympathetically and has 
agreed an affordable payment plan with him. In terms of the options for the repayment of the 
restructured loan going forward, I would ask that Mr K lets Omni know which of the options 
Ive set out below he would prefer. But that these should only take effect when Mr K and Omni agree that his financial position is such that he is again able to recommence paying 
the higher amount.
As I said above, Im disappointed that Omni didnt recognise this as a complaint that should 
be upheld. Mr K will clearly have been upset and inconvenienced by Omnis rejection of his 
claim. Most of the original upset is however down to IS salesmans actions. And I cant hold 
Omni responsible for that here. But I do think Omni should pay Mr K £200 for the additional 
distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr K.
Neither of the parties has said anything that makes me think I should change my provisional 
findings. So, I am adopting them in full in this final decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited:
Recalculate Mr Ks loan so that he pays no more than the known and assumed 
savings and income that he will receive over its seven-year term;
Allow Mr K to keep the solar panel system;
Arrange for an engineer to inspect Mr Ks system to check that its working correctly 
and fix anything required, including the cause of the noise that Mr K says its making;
Calculate any overpayments that Mr K has made on the loan and apply these to his 
restructured loan account together with simple interest* on those payments at 8% a 
year from the date he made them until theyre applied to the restructured loan;
Give Mr K the following options as to how hed like to make his future repayments, 
although only implement this when its agreed that Mr K is again in a financial 
position to make them:
oThe overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan 
and Mr K continues to make his original monthly payment resulting in the loan 
potentially finishing early, subject to the effect of any underpayments hes 
made; or
oThe overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan 
and Mr K pays a new lower monthly payment over the original term of the 
loan, subject to the effect of any underpayments hes made; and
Pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require that Omni deduct tax from any interest that it pays Mr 
K. If Mr K requests it, Omni must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off so that he can reclaim it if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman