DRN-3571956
The complaint
Mr R complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr R is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In February 1993, Mr R was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. At 
the time, Mr R was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with him 
making a monthly contribution of £140 (gross). The last contribution was paid in March 2011. 
In 2018, Mr R complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that the FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers OPS instead.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr R had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Rs file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
Over the period of liability (February 1993 to March 2011), the total contributions paid 
to the FSAVC plan represented 2.91% of pensionable pay. If 2.91% of pensionable 
pay had instead been directed to added years, Mr R could have purchased added 
years of 4 years 149 days up to age 60 if working full time throughout. However, the 
maximum allowed under the scheme was 40 years, so Mr R had headroom of 3 
years 164 days, which he couldve bought at 2.28% of pensionable salary.
 
Mr R had periods of part-time service. This reduced the number of years he couldve 
bought to 3 years 155 days. And as contributions were only paid for 18 years 2 
months, rather than the full 32-year contract term for added years, this further 
reduced the number of years to 1 year 345 days.
The plan value in July 2019 was £150,812.62. The plan benefitted from a valuable 
Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 60, there was a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) 
of £7.016 per £100 fund value payable monthly in advance guaranteed for 5 years 
and with no escalation. To use the fund to purchase an equivalent annuity based on 
the FCA calculation methodology (to be consistent with the valuation of the lost 
scheme benefits) would require a total amount now of £227,491.18. Therefore, the 
fund value on which the calculations are based is this higher figure. The GAR 
adjustment only applies to 75% of the fund, the balance being the maximum 25% 
which may be taken as tax free cash.
The value of the FSAVC plan of £227,491.18 was reduced to £177,924.04 to 
recognise the maximum available headroom for added years which represents 
78.2114% of the full FSAVC plan contributions. 
Wesleyans letter explained that this value was higher than the value of prospective lost 
added years (£143,198.18) which Mr R would have bought in the OPS by a margin of 
£34,725.86. As a result, no compensation was due as its calculations showed that Mr R 
hadnt incurred a financial loss.
Mr R didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
In summary, Mr R said he was concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss 
assessment. He doesnt think its fair to apply the GAR to a notional fund value and believes 
this goes against the loss calculation rules as set out in the FSAVC Mis-Selling Review 
Guidance.
Ombudsmans provisional thoughts on the complaint
This complaint has been upheld on the basis that Mr R would have bought added years if 
the FSAVC plan hadnt been mis-sold. During the relevant period, Mr R had some part time 
service, he didnt go on to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme and he is yet to 
take the benefits of his FSAVC plan.
The FSAVC has a GAR attached and Wesleyan has included the value the GAR adds to Mr
Rs plan in its calculation, which has determined he has made a gain of over £34,000 as a 
result of taking out the FSAVC plan.
The main point that is in dispute in this complaint is that Wesleyan has included the value of 
the GAR in its calculation.
Should the value of the GAR be included?
The GAR on Mr Rs FSAVC plan allows him to take his benefits in a similar format to
those provided by the added years arrangement insomuch as it can provide a guaranteed
income. And Mr R can choose for the annuity to increase in line with RPI and provide a 50% 
spouses pension. Because of this, Im satisfied the value of the GAR can be taken into 
account when a complaint is upheld on an added years basis.
I think the FSAVC review guidance allows for a GAR to be included. But even if it didnt, I 
think it would be appropriate to do so anyway. And I dont have to apply the guidance if I 
think doing so would result in an outcome that isnt fair to both parties.
Ive noted Mr Rs representatives suggestions on another complaint regarding how the GAR 
could be treated and Id like to address why I dont think these are appropriate.
I accept that Wesleyan may well have factored its GAR responsibilities into its future 
liabilities. But this is no different to any other firm that offers a product with a GAR, where the 
plan holder chooses to give up those safe guarded benefits. Mr Rs representative believes 
that the FSAVC fund could be treated in a similar way to a with profits fund. But with profits 
funds have specific rules regarding the distribution of funds and surrender values. The regulator hasnt set rules for firms requiring them to provide an increased transfer value to 
take account of the GAR value if a GAR isnt utilised. And I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to ask Wesleyan to provide an uplift in this case.
I also dont think it would be appropriate to add a clause to any settlement agreement where 
a consumer effectively waives their right to the GAR feature on their plan. This is because a 
GAR of this value is a safeguarded benefit and pension legislation says that it can only be 
given up after advice has been received. So Wesleyan would not be complying with 
legislation if it allowed a consumer to waive their right to the GAR without advice having 
been provided.
Mr R has complained that his FSAVC plan was mis-sold and that he instead should have 
been advised to buy added years. The FSAVC gives Mr R the option to take benefits in a 
similar format to the added years arrangement. But if Mr R chooses to take his benefits in 
any other format other than an annuity - which wouldnt have been an option for him if he 
had taken added years - then hes making that decision knowing that he is giving up a 
valuable GAR.
The GAR Wesleyan has based its calculation on is a single life, level annuity thats 
guaranteed for 5 years. It has used this form of annuity because consumers that opt to take 
a guaranteed income generally take this option. But I think a fairer comparison would be to 
base the value on a GAR that more closely matches the lost benefits, so an annuity 
providing a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI and guaranteed for 5 years. 
Its not clear at present what difference this will make to a loss calculation because the GAR 
is determined on the same actuarial basis as the one Wesleyan has already used in its 
calculations. But I think Wesleyan should rerun the calculation on this basis in order to 
determine what difference this makes.
In terms of the number of added years Wesleyan has based its calculation on, it has 
calculated that Mr R paid the equivalent of 2.91% of his pensionable pay to his
FSAVC plan between the relevant period. At the time of advice, 2.28% would have secured 
the maximum number of years if Mr R had paid this until the age of 60. However, the
contributions to the FSAVC stopped in 2011 and Mr R also worked part time during the 
relevant period. So Wesleyan has reduced the number of added years down accordingly to 1 
year 345 days. Had Mr R been a member of the added years arrangement these factors 
would have impacted the number of added years he would have secured. So I dont think the 
approach Wesleyan has taken here is inappropriate in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im also conscious that Mr R paid more to his FSAVC than he would have needed to pay 
towards the added years arrangement. I think its likely that, had the FSAVC not been mis-
sold, these contributions would have been directed to the cheaper in-house AVC 
arrangement. But due to legislation limiting pension contributions, this would only have been 
possible after 2006, when the pension simplification rules were introduced.
Just because Mr R would have paid less in charges to the in-house AVC after 2006, it 
doesnt necessarily mean that he has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. I think
Wesleyan should carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC (for
excess contributions after April 2006 only). If it can demonstrate that the FSAVCs 
performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges Mr R has 
paid, then it may conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a result of these excess 
contributions being paid to the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC. I have previously set 
out the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to make this comparison. I dont intend to 
repeat that in full here but Im happy to confirm this if either party requires clarification.
If the above calculation produces a loss, Wesleyan should complete a standard charges onlycalculation on the excess contributions paid after April 2006.
What if Mr R uses the GAR when he takes his benefits?
As I understand it, Mr R is yet to take the benefits of his FSAVC plan. So I do accept that 
when he does, he may opt to take an annuity with Wesleyan and utilise the GAR. If Mr R has 
also received a payment to reflect the higher charges he has paid to the FSAVC 
arrangement in respect of the excess contributions paid to the plan after April 2006, this 
could leave him in a better position than he would have been in, had he joined his in-house 
AVC. He will effectively have received a refund of the higher charges and hell also be 
benefitting from the increased value the GAR adds to his FSAVC fund. In these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Wesleyan to take account of any 
payment it makes now as a result to the higher charges when the benefits are taken, should 
Mr R use the GAR.
Mr Rs final submissions 
Mr Rs representative has said that it is in agreement with the main conclusion, with the 
exception of the following points. 
These historical Medical Sickness Society policies, that Wesleyan is using in its loss 
assessments, were with profit policies up to approximately 1998. The pre-1998 
schemes did not specify the charges associated with the policies. Bulletin No. 4 
published after the FSAVC Review Guidance was issued, was intended to be specific 
to highlight how such policies should be dealt with when charges were not detailed in 
the policy documents. Wesleyan however uses 1.5% in its loss calculations which 
undercalculates the loss. 
It has also questioned why on a previous case Ive said that the GAR shouldnt be 
included yet, Im saying its not unfair for Wesleyan to include it in this case. 
With regards to the advice requirement, it is common practice for firms to advise 
clients to take advice when looking at their pension options or when nearing 
retirement. It would be a more balanced approach in terms of treating customers 
fairly, if Wesleyan gave the client a choice based on informed information, whereby it 
performs a loss calculation without the use of the prospective potential value of the 
GA, and lets the consumer decide whether they want to accept the compensation 
and forego their guaranteed annuity options, always after first seeking professional 
advice.
Wesleyans final submissions
Wesleyan has said that it agrees with my findings. Its happy to recalculate, with the value of 
the GAR benefit attaching to the FSAVC Plan based on an annuity rate on an equivalent 
basis to the added years arrangement. But it expects this approach to significantly increase 
the value of the GAR benefit and hence the plan value used within the loss assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges on FSAVC plansMr Rs representative remains of the view that the 1.5% annual management charge, or 
reduction in yield, that Wesleyan uses in it charges only calculation for the type of FSAVC 
plan that Mr R has, is unfair.  It thinks that this is not in line with the FSAVC review guidance, 
in particular Bulletin No 4, which Ive set out below.
Model Guidance, Section 6 - Loss assessment) This section of the guidance states, 
among other things, that:
Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in the in-
house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC (Paragraph 6.17, 
emphasis added) As noted in paragraph 6.17.7 the FSAVC charges borne by the 
investor will normally be apparent.
Where details of charges are available firms should use them. However, there may 
be exceptions to this  for example in respect of certain with profits policies. Where 
details of charges are not available, firms may reasonably use Reduction in Yield 
(RIY) information calculated for product disclosure purposes as a proxy for the 
average charges. This RIY information is likely to be available within:
 essential product information (Key Features), for sales from 1 January 1995; and
 product particulars and With Profits Guides, for sales from 1 March 1990.
Firms should use product specific RIY information where this information is readily 
available, or where the firm could reasonably be expected to obtain it. ()
Firms may reasonably use a default assumption, but only where they lack details of 
the charges or RIY information ()
Where commission has been taken and annual management charge or RIY 
information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to assume that the charges 
borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 2.9% a year. This is 
based on the RIY for an FSAVC policy with contributions of £100 per month over a 
ten year term as reported in the Watson Wyatt AVC survey published in May 1999, 
see Consultation Paper 27 for details. Firms may use an alternative assumption if 
there is demonstrable evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate.
Wesleyan has confirmed that its actuaries have recently completed a piece work where they 
looked at the RIY for Medical Sickness Society Fund FSAVC plans with a range of entry 
dates, where the plans are shortly coming up to retirement. Its actuaries have found that the 
maximum RIY was 1.2% and the average was 1%. So, being prudent, Wesleyan considers 
1.5% reasonable at this point in time.
Ive thought carefully about what Wesleyan has said and whether its in line with the above 
guidance.  
The guidance states that if the RIY is unknown, or the firm lacks details of the RIY or this 
information is not available, then the default assumptions should be used. But thats not the 
case here. Wesleyan does know what the RIY is, or, it knows the range that its within. The 
guidance also allows a firm to make an alternative assumption if there is demonstratable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate. So overall, while I accept that the 
default assumption would work in favour of the consumer, Im not persuaded that Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable by using 1.5%, when its actuaries have determined that the RIY for 
plans, such as Mr Rs is actually between 1% and 1.2%. 
Inclusion of GAR valueOn a previous case I acknowledged that, since the introduction of the pension freedoms 
legislation, there has been a reduction in the number of consumers that opt to take a 
guaranteed income at retirement. That complaint had been upheld on the basis that the 
consumer would have joined the in-house AVC scheme if they hadnt been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. So I said that I didnt think it was fair to include the value of the GAR when 
determining whether a loss has been suffered. This was because, if the consumer had been 
in the in-house AVC, their options at retirement wouldnt havent been limited to securing a 
guaranteed income. They would have had more flexibility in how they took their benefits. 
And crucially, when making a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC, its 
either based on the fund values of each arrangement, or the difference between the 
charges. And so I didnt think it fair for the value of the GAR to be included. Thats not to say 
that the GAR on these plans isnt valuable, it is. Thats why I also said that Wesleyan can 
take any payment it makes now for higher charges into account, should the consumer go on 
to use the GAR on their plan. 
In the case of Mr R, both parties have agreed that he would have bought added years in his 
employers OPS had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. The added years arrangement 
would only have provided a guaranteed income, there would not have been any flexibility in 
the way the benefits could be taken. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to 
base the value of Mr Rs plan on the guaranteed income it can provide. The comparison 
here is being made with the value of the guaranteed income that the added years 
arrangement would have provided and so Im satisfied that this is a fair way to make the 
comparison. 
The advice requirement for safeguarded benefits
I agree with what Mr Rs representative has said about it being common practice for firm to 
recommend a plan holder takes advice when looking at their pension options or when 
nearing retirement. But the rules around taking advice when the plan has safeguarded 
benefits valued at over £30,000, are set out under Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015. 
These regulations require pension scheme members who have subsisting rights in respect 
of safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000 under the scheme to take appropriate 
independent advice from an FCA authorised adviser before:
converting safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits 
using a transfer payment in respect of safeguarded benefits to acquire flexible 
benefits under another scheme
being paid an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) in respect of their 
safeguarded benefits
If a consumer was to take this advice before taking their benefits, in order to obtain a larger 
compensation payment, I dont necessarily think this would remove the requirement at the 
point the benefits are taken, when the consumer may well have already waived their rights to 
those benefits. But in any event, even if there wasnt an advice requirement, I still wouldnt 
think it was fair to allow Mr R to waive his right to the GAR and for the value not to be 
included in the loss calculation. 
As Ive said above, Mr R complained to Wesleyan that he would have bought added years. 
The comparison of the added years arrangement is based on the value of the benefits it can 
provide. So Im satisfied that the value of the FSAVC plan should also be based on the 
equivalent benefits that it can provide. I dont think this means that Mr R is being treated 
unfairly, I think this is the fairest way or comparing like for like.  I appreciate that Wesleyan believes its likely the value of providing the GAR will increase 
significantly, due mainly to the increasing in line with RPI option being included. But Im 
conscious that it has only run this calculation on one other case so far. And so I think it 
should still rerun the calculation on Mr Rs case, in order to see if it does make a difference 
overall to his loss.  
For the reasons explained, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ive set 
about below what I think Wesleyan needs to do. 
Putting things right
In terms of the added years, as at the date of my final decision, Wesleyan should rerun the 
calculation to bring it up to date using the most recent financial assumptions. The value of 
the GAR should be based on an annuity that provides a 50% spouses pension and 
increases in line with RPI. If Mr R has now taken his benefits, this should be taken into 
account in the calculation. 
In terms of the FSAVC contributions Mr R paid after 2006, if it wishes to do so, Wesleyan 
should calculate a notional value for the excess contributions had they been paid to the in-
house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds index. 
I've chosen this benchmark because this would have achieved capital growth with a small 
risk to the capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. The FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a higher return. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr R would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited to his objective.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If the
actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need not 
take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr R the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.As explained in my provisional findings, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Wesleyan 
to take account of any payment it makes now as a result to the higher charges when the 
benefits are taken, should Mr R use the GAR.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan
Assurance Society calculate redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 
2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman