DRN-3694420
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt 
refunded an amount he paid on his credit card for a flight.
What happened
Mr D bought return flights through a third-party airline  who I shall refer to as Q  to fly to 
Australia from London. He paid for the cost of the flights on his AESEL credit card. Both 
flights required him to change planes mid-journey, requiring a short stopover.
Due to travel restrictions owing to Covid-19, Mr D says was unable to travel back to London, 
so the return flights were changed to fly to Edinburgh. However, the day before Mr D was to 
fly home, Q changed the flight time for the connecting journey, which meant his stopover 
was increased from around three hours to 20 hours. 
When Mr D looked to check in for the flight, he was denied boarding as the PCR test hed 
taken would have been taken more than 72 hours before arriving in Edinburgh  the 
requirement under travel regulations. Mr D says this was only the case because Q changed 
the flight times. As a result, Mr D was treated as a no-show and Q charged him £324 which 
he paid on his AESEL card. He also said the terms of the contract set out that Q could only 
charge £150 for a no-show.
Mr D complained to Q about the charge but he didnt receive a response, so he contacted 
AESEL to dispute the charge. AESEL considered the claim under its chargeback rules, but 
didnt uphold it. However, it paid him £75 in compensation because it initially processed the 
claim under the wrong chargeback code. Mr D didnt agree with AESELs outcome, so 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the terms of the contract between Q 
and Mr D entitled Q to change the flight times and he said it was Mr Ds responsibility to 
ensure he had the relevant travel documents to return to the UK. The investigator also said 
he hadnt seen anything to show that Q wasnt entitled to charge £324 for a no-show.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr D is complaining about the way AESEL handled a dispute over a payment he made to Q 
for flights. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). In this case AESEL only considered chargeback, 
however I would have expected it to consider both avenues. Ill consider both chargeback 
and Section 75 separately  including whether Mr D has lost out due to AESEL not 
considering a Section 75 claim. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will then 
raise a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a 
prescribed period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it 
thinks the chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is unsuccessful, then the 
temporary refund is returned to the merchant. 
The rules around when a chargeback can be raised are strict and are set out by the card 
scheme provider  in this case AESEL. AESEL considered the claim under two chargeback 
codes credit not presented and services not received. But it said this was unsuccessful 
because Mr D wasnt entitled to a refund and it was satisfied Q had applied the term 
correctly.
Ive looked at the terms of the contract and they set out that Q can charge a fee where Mr D 
didnt use the flight. I can see that the terms of contract that Mr D has provided sets out that 
Q could charge up to £266 for a no-show, but this was when he was flying into London. 
Mr D hasnt provided any updated terms for when the return destination was changed to 
Edinburgh. I note he says that Q didnt give him any updated terms, but he also has 
accepted that different charges apply to different routes. I think its likely Q would have 
applied different charges for when the destination was changed to Edinburgh. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AESEL to say that it didnt have enough to dispute the £324 charge.
Section 75
AESEL only considered Mr Ds claim under chargeback, but I think it should have also 
considered whether he would have had rights for a refund under Section 75  especially 
given Mr Ds arguments were more akin to a breach of contract as opposed to a non-
provision of service. So this type of claim is more likely to succeed under Section 75. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AESEL to first consider chargeback, but once that was 
unsuccessful, it should have considered whether it was liable under Section 75.
Mr D paid for the flights (and additional charge) on his AESEL credit card. Section 75 sets 
out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, AESEL is jointly liable for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  in this case Q. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here. 
The key issue here is that Mr D needs to demonstrate that Q has breached the terms of its 
contract with him for AESEL to be liable for any losses he incurred. Mr D, in essence, is 
claiming Q breached the terms of the contract in two ways:
1. Firstly, in changing the time of the connecting flight, it meant his PCR test was no longer 
valid so he couldnt fly. He believes it should have recognised this risk when changing 
the flight times; and
2. If it was allowed to charge a no-show fee, he believes Q has charged more than it was 
contractually allowed to.In thinking about this, Ive looked at the terms of the contract which sets out the following:
The terms of the contract also specify that no particular time is fixed for the commencement 
or completion of carriage, and times shown in timetables or elsewhere are approximate and 
not guaranteed, and do not form part of the Conditions of Contract.
So the contract in essence specifies that flight times provided are not a contractual 
guarantee and that Q had the right to change the flight times. But the contract also sets out 
what Q is required to do if it needs to make changes to the schedule and it says the 
following:
2. Cancellation, Changes of Schedule etc.
2.1 If we cancel or delay a flight, are unable to provide previously confirmed space, fail to 
stop at a Passenger stopover or destination point, or cause you to miss a connecting 
flight on which you hold a reservation, we shall either:
(i) Carry you on another of our scheduled Passenger services on which space is available; 
or
(ii) Re-route you to the destination indicated on the Ticket or applicable portion thereof by 
our own scheduled services or the scheduled services of another carrier, or by means of 
surface transportation. If the sum of the fare, excess Baggage charge and any 
applicable service charge for the revised routing is higher than the refund value of the 
Ticket or applicable portion thereof, we will not require additional fare or charges from 
you and will refund the difference if the fare and charge for the revised routing are lower; 
or
(iii) Make a refund in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 and shall be under no 
further liability to you.
In essence, the contract says that, where Q needs to cancel or delay a flight  as it did in this 
case  it should either put Mr D on an alternative flight or provide him with a refund. While I 
appreciate Mr D wasnt happy with the change in flight time, Q has fulfilled its contractual 
requirements in putting Mr D on an alternative flight, so I cant say its breached its terms of 
the contract with Mr D in this respect. 
I acknowledge the change in flight time meant the PCR test hed undertaken  in line with 
the Covid19 travel requirements at the time  would no longer be valid on arrival into 
Edinburgh. But it was Mr Ds responsibility to ensure he had the relevant information to 
travel. Q gave Mr D notice of the flight time change, so I think he would have had enough 
time to ensure he was complaint with the travel restrictions  including getting another PCR 
test if necessary.
Mr D has also said that Q had charged him more than it was contractually entitled to charge 
for not boarding the flight. Ive looked at the contract Mr D has provided, but this was for the 
flight from Australia to London, but the contract had changed since then as Mr D was 
rebooked to fly to Edinburgh. The key issue here is that its for Mr D to demonstrate that Q 
had breached the terms of the contract  not for Q to demonstrate it didnt do so. So its for 
Mr D to show that the amount he paid was wrong.
I think its likely there would have been a change in fees when the final destination was 
changed and Mr D has said he accepts this. Ive considered Mr Ds comments about why he 
didnt feel the charge should have increased as much. But the fees charged were at Qs 
reasonable discretion. Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that the amount Q 
charged for Mr D being treated as a no-show was out of line with what the contract would 
have specified. I recognise Mr D says he didnt receive an updated contract, but I dont think this means I can hold AESEL liable for the amount Q charged, him. 
So, even if AESEL had considered the claim under Section 75, I dont think it would have 
succeeded.
Summary 
Ultimately, while I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr D found himself, for the reasons 
I set out above, I cant reasonably say it was unfair for AESEL to not refund anything Mr D 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman