DRN-2361670
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Independent Choice to 
transfer his personal pension from MetLife to Prudential. Mr H also complains about the 
delay setting up his policy with the pension provider, which caused him to miss out on the 
opportunity to add contributions into his plan for a number of months.
Further, Mr H complains that he now has two policies instead of one and that he believed 
that the transfer was like for like, when it wasnt. 
What happened
Both Mr H and his wife received pensions advice from Independent Choice in 2016.
In May 2018, at Independent Choices instigation, Mr and Mr H attended a meeting with it to 
review their pensions. Mr H was advised to transfer his pension away from MetLife to 
Prudential and led to believe he would get higher returns if he did so.
Mr H said he understood that if he proceeded with the transfer it would be on a like for like 
basis, and that he would continue to make monthly contributions by direct debit of £375 
per month. The only reason given by the adviser for the transfer was that the returns were 
expected to be higher with Prudential.
Both Mr and Mrs H complained to this service about the advice they received from 
Independent Choice. I am dealing with Mr Hs complaint only here. Mrs Hs complaint has 
been dealt with separately. Mr H also complained to our service, with Independent 
Choices assistance, about delays caused by Prudential. This complaint has already been 
considered separately by this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint against Independent Choice and 
recommended it was upheld.
Mr H agreed with our investigators recommendation. Independent Choice did not agree. It 
said in summary:
Mr Hs complaint should be dismissed as the proper complaints procedure had not 
been followed. His complaint was initially made against Prudential and the redress 
sought was for Prudential to pay the missed contributions. Independent Choice 
was not given an opportunity to resolve the complaint with Mr H. Mr H complained 
to this service in April 2019 and Independent Choice was not told about the 
complaint against it until January 2020.
The advice was suitable because Mr H is in a better financial situation now than he 
would have been if he stayed with MetLife, so the advice was justified.
Although he had lost the secure capital protection, the performance of the MetLife 
plan shows that this guarantee would not have been invoked, so he has not 
actually lost out.
The adviser was suffering from chronic health conditions between January and 
December 2018, so he accepts his file was below standard.
If Mr H had wanted to revert back to a single plan he was told how to do this in 
early 2019 and again in February 2020 and he did not take steps to rectify the 
situation.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, we asked Independent Choice to provide its business file. The 
file has not been provided to date, despite numerous requests. Independent Choice has 
also not provided Mr H with a final response on the issues raised. I am satisfied that this 
service can consider the complaint made against Independent Choice and that 
Independent Choice has been given an opportunity to resolve this complaint with Mr H 
direct.
Prudential and MetLife have provided this service with information about Mr Hs pension 
plans. From the information provided, our investigator carefully set out in his view a timeline 
of key events in relation to Mr Hs complaint. To simplify matters, and because its relevant to 
this decision, Ive repeated that timeline here.
17 February 2016
Independent Choice set up Mr Hs policy with MetLife. Mr H was charged an initial advice fee 
of 3%, which was £2,139.16 paid to Independent Choice.
18 May 2018
An online application was completed for plan ending 827 with Prudential.
31 May 2018
Plan 827 was set up and £97,868.57 transferred from MetLife. An advice fee of
£2,246.71 was paid to Independent Choice from the transfer for the advice.
10 August 2018
An application for a regular contributions plan was received by Prudential, this was set 
up under plan 012.
17 August 2018
Prudential sent an outstanding requirements letter to Independent Choice regarding the 
regular contributions plan.
27 November 2018
Prudential sent a letter to Independent Choice stating that it would terminate setting up 
plan ending 012 if it didnt receive the outstanding information by 27 December 2018. 
[This information wasnt received and so plan ending 012 wasnt set up.]
December 2018
Mr H received a yearly statement, he noticed that his pensions had not increased in 
value. He followed this up and found that no direct debits had been taken since transfer.
He got in touch with Independent Choice to find out why the direct debits had not been 
taken. Independent Choice raised a complaint against Prudential on his behalf about this.
January 2019
Independent Choice provided Mr H with the direct debit form. Mr H signed this, believing 
that would enable him to get his existing policy with Prudential set up correctly. Mr H 
thought that his contributions would begin in February 2019.
Independent Choice said that Mr H could look into the issue of missing contributions at a 
later date, but the first priority would be to get his direct debit back on track.
7 February 2019
Prudential included the incorrect policy number. It otherwise provided the correct 
information. It asked Independent Choice if the previous form had already been posted 
out. It had not.
Independent Choice requested a copy by email which was sent the next day.
18 February 2019
Mr H called Prudential to find out if plan ending 827 could accept regular premiums, 
Prudential confirmed that the plan was set up for the transfer in and could not accept 
regular premiums. But the call handler didnt inform him that plan 415 was being set up 
to accept regular premiums from him.
21 February 2019
Prudential wrote to Independent Choice confirming plan 827 could not accept regular 
premiums. Independent Choice sent Mr H a text message, in which, it informed Mr H that 
the letter from 21 February 2019 was incorrect, when it wasnt Prudential confirmed that 
plan ending 827 couldnt accept continuing contributions.
8 March 2019
Prudential received Mr Hs completed direct debit mandate and plan ending 415 was set 
up on 1 April 2019 as a regular premium plan, with contributions of £375 per month.
Prudential set the investment date as 22 February 2019 as it believed if Prudential had 
correctly sent across the information to Independent Choice, this could have been the start 
of the investment. So, in order to ensure that Mr H wasnt financially disadvantaged, this 
earlier date was used by Prudential. Prudential confirmed the start date would be 1 January 
2019 and asked for an outstanding document to be sent to it so it could finish setting up the 
plan.
Suitability of the advice and clear and fair information 
In 2016, Mr H paid Independent Choice an advice fee when it assisted him to set up his 
MetLife personal pension plan. He then paid a further advice fee of £2,246.71 to set up the 
Prudential plan in 2018. From what Mr Hs said, he wasnt looking to review his pension in 
2018 or to move his pension away from MetLife. He ended up doing so because 
Independent Choice contacted him and recommended he transfer because of the higher 
returns. His circumstances and objectives appeared not to have changed from 2016. He 
was still making contributions of £375 per month into the plan and wanted to continue to 
do so. 
Ive not seen any information to show that Independent Choice carried out a fact find or 
considered Mr Hs particular circumstances when it advised him to transfer his pension to 
Prudential. Ive also not seen a suitability letter, explaining why the transfer to Prudential 
was a suitable and appropriate recommendation in his particular circumstances. Mr H 
doesnt recall being provided with written advice. I have seen a brief note comparing the higher returns in the Prudential scheme compared to those with MetLife. The information 
presented in this note is very limited and, in my view, provides insufficient information to 
enable a person to make an informed choice about their options.
Mr H believed that the transfer was on a like-for-like basis. He does not remember being 
told that if he transferred to the new plan it would not offer the same capital protection 
option, which was guaranteed in his plan with MetLife. He was paying an additional 
amount for this protection. This guarantee attached to the MetLife plan has now been lost 
as a result of the transfer.
Like our investigator concluded, looking at the charging structure for the MetLife and 
Prudential plans, whilst in the short term the Prudential plan may have appeared to cost 
less, the charges wouldve likely evened out over time. So, the difference in plan charges 
likely wouldnt have been a reason to transfer either. By paying the additional advice fee to 
transfer Mr H has ended up paying more in advice fees.
Overall, I think Independent Choice has done something wrong here. It has not confirmed its 
advice in writing. It has not clearly set out its reasons for its recommendation to transfer, to 
enable Mr H to make an informed choice about what was best for him and to consider if the 
advice was suitable, in his circumstances. I cant see that Mr H was made aware of the 
guarantee he was giving up, if he transferred. Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly find 
that Mr H was given suitable advice and enough clear and fair information to make an 
informed choice about how to proceed.
Regular contributions
Its unclear why Independent Choice didnt provide the information to set up policy 012. 
The application for the policy was submitted in August 2018, the recommendation to 
transfer was made in May 2018 
Looking at the timeline, I agree with our investigator the delay in setting up the plan which 
regular contributions were to be paid into was mainly down to Independent Choice. Based 
on the records available, I think, regular contributions could have been paid into the 
Prudential plan from August 2018, (if plan 012 had been opened). Mainly as a result of 
Independent Choices delay, Mr H wasnt able to make monthly regular contributions from 
August 2018 to April 2019.
Mr H says he is not now able to pay over these missed payments as financially he cant 
afford to do so due to the implications of coronavirus on his finances.
I think Mr H has suffered some trouble and upset here, as he has lost out on the potential 
investment growth on these contributions because of the delay. 
However, it would not be fair or reasonable to hold Independent Choice responsible for Mr 
Hs current financial situation and I cant fairly require Independent Choice to pay these 
contributions in his place, as that would put him in a better position than he would have 
been in at the outset. This services role is to put the person back in the same position that 
they would have been in but for the error or omission, not in a better position.
However, I do consider it would be appropriate for Independent Choice to pay Mr H some 
redress for the trouble and upset it has caused him through possibly losing out on the 
investment growth and lost opportunity here. 
Putting things rightFair compensation
In assessing fair compensation, as Ive said my aim is to put Mr H as close as possible
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
If Mr H had been given suitable advice, I think he would not have transferred and would 
have remained invested with MetLife. Therefore, I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives at the time of 
advice in 2018.
To compensate Mr H fairly Independent Choice should:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Independent Choice should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Independent Choice should pay into Mr H's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Independent
Choices payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Independent Choice shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Independent Choice is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr H is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Mr H has lost the secure capital option guarantee on his plan with MetLife, Its not 
been possible to assess the value of the guarantees going forward. So, to put things 
right here, Independent Choice should make a lump sum payment of £500 direct to 
Mr H for the loss of this guarantee and the peace of mind it would have given Mr H in 
the future. Based on what Ive seen, I cant say whether the guarantee would or 
wouldnt have been invoked at a later date if Mr H had remained in the MetLife plan. 
In any event, as I say, he has lost the peace of mind of the protection.
Mr H lost the opportunity to make regular contributions into his plan from
August 2018 to April 2019, and for this, Independent Choice should make single a
payment of £500 direct to Mr H for the trouble and upset caused.
In addition, Independent Choice should pay Mr H £200 direct for the trouble and 
upset caused by the unsuitable advice/and or lack of clear and fair information he 
received to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to proceed with 
the transfer.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Independent Choice consider that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. Independent Choice should also give Mr H a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What should Independent Choice do? investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
Prudential 
Pensionstill existsMetLife 
Retirement 
PortfolioDate of 
transfer 
from 
MetLifeDate of 
settlement 
with 
Prudentialnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investment to Mr H should be 
deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid to Mr H so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Independent Choice total all 
those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The advice to transfer from MetLife to Prudential was unsuitable and the delays to set up 
plan 415 were largely caused by Independent Choice.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding- compensation/compensation-investment-complaints.My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Independent Choice to pay him fair compensation 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman