DRN-2677888
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Widows Limited told him a valuation of his pension was 
guaranteed but paid him a lower amount. He says they should honour their original 
valuation.
What happened
Mr P held a pension plan with Scottish Widows. In March 2020 Mr P was looking at his 
options for taking benefits from his pension.
On 5 March 2020 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr P and gave him a valuation of his pension of 
£21,502.99. They said this value wasnt guaranteed but the pension could be fully encashed 
as tax-free cash. 
On 9 March 2020 Mr P phoned Scottish Widows. During the call Scottish Widows said 
Mr Ps pension was valued at £21,077.51. Mr P says Scottish Widows told him that if he 
agreed to that value on the phone, it would be guaranteed. 
Following the phone call, Scottish Widows fully encashed Mr Ps funds. They say, when 
encashed, the funds were valued at £20,103.39 which is the amount they paid to Mr P. 
Mr P says that when he received the funds, he was surprised as he said Scottish Widows 
had confirmed the guaranteed valuation of his pension in the phone call. So, Mr P 
complained to Scottish Widows.
In their response, Scottish Widows said theyd listened to the phone call Mr P had made to 
them. They acknowledged that there was a clear implication from their call handler that the 
figures being discussed were the actual figures that would be paid to Mr P. However, that 
information was incorrect, and any valuations quoted were not guaranteed. The actual 
valuation Mr P would have received would have been set later that day. Scottish Widows 
paid Mr P £250 for any upset or inconvenience they caused him by giving him incorrect 
information.
Mr P was unhappy with Scottish Widows response and so brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator said Scottish Widows had acknowledged their error in providing 
Mr P with incorrect information. But he was satisfied that Mr P had been paid the correct 
value of his pension. He said he wouldnt expect Scottish Widow to honour an incorrect 
valuation and the compensation payment for Mr Ps loss of expectation was in line with what 
he thought was fair. The investigator went on to say Mr P intended to use the money to pay 
towards his mortgage and so he thought Mr P would have gone ahead with the encashment 
even if hed been told the valuation wasnt guaranteed.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion, he says had it been explained to him that 
the final valuation wasnt guaranteed, and his fund could drop further in value, he wouldnt 
have gone through with the encashment. So, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate it must have been disappointing for Mr P to only receive £20,103.39 having 
been told that the valuation of his pension of £21,077.51 was guaranteed. But after 
considering the evidence, I agree with the investigators opinion of this complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Scottish Widows accepted that it gave Mr P false information during their call with him on 
9 March 2020. They say he should have been told the valuation of his pension plan wasnt 
guaranteed and would only be set later that day. 
Im satisfied that Mr Ps plan was valued at £20,103.39 on the encashment date of 
9 March 2020. Its not uncommon for a business to be unable to give a guaranteed valuation 
of a pension plan before its encashed. And Im satisfied that the valuation Scottish Widows 
gave Mr P was from the previous days trading on 6 March 2020. I appreciate Mr P called 
Sottish Widows after 4:30pm however, that doesnt mean that the valuation the call handler 
used was the correct one.
Scottish Widows error here is that they gave Mr P the wrong information about the valuation 
of his plan. And when a business make a mistake like this one, the way to put things right is 
usually to put the customer in the same position they would be in now if the mistake had not 
been made. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr P, but the answer is not to put them in 
the position they would be in if the misinformation had been true.
So, what I must decide is whether Mr P would have acted differently if he had been given the 
correct information in the call. Would he still have made the withdrawal? 
I note that Mr P now says he wouldnt have withdrawn his funds had he known that there 
may be a fall in value. Whilst that may possibly be true, I think its more likely that he would 
have gone ahead with the withdrawal if he had been fully informed. I say that because I think 
Mr P now has the benefit of hindsight. Prior to the phone call Mr P had been told that the 
values hed been given for his pension werent guaranteed. And in the phone call Mr P 
himself talks about market fluctuations, so I think he understood why. There had already 
been a drop in value of the pension and he still wanted to go ahead with a withdrawal. 
Mr P said he wanted to encash his pension to pay towards his mortgage as he was 
concerned about his employment. In the call Mr P said he was committed to his decision and 
Scottish Widows processes meant he could never actually encash his pension with the 
assurance of a guaranteed specific value. So, he was unlikely to ever be in a position to 
know the exact value of encashment he would receive. 
Mr P should have been told in his call that the value he would actually receive would be the 
value later that day. Which could be more, or less than the value hed been given. He should 
not have been led to understand that the valuation hed been given as guaranteed. But as 
Ive said, on balance, I think Mr P would have gone ahead with the encashment anyway. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that Mr P lost out on the pension value he received. He was paid 
the correct amount. I fully agree that he suffered some loss of expectation and it must have 
been upsetting to receive less than he expected. But I think the offer Scottish Widows made 
is fair and in line with any award this service would make for that loss of expectation.
My final decision
I am aware that Scottish Widows Limited has made an offer to pay £250. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Scottish 
Widows Limited should pay Mr P £250 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman