DRN-3169483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) did not offer a fair 
market value for their car when it was written off in an accident.
References to Mr C or Mrs C will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a motor insurance policy with Admiral.
Following an incident Mr C made a claim on thier insurance policy with Admiral and the car 
was written off as a total loss. Admiral offered £10,840 in settlement. Mr C said he had 
recently had it valued at around £14,000 and so didnt think this was a fair amount and 
wanted a higher figure.
Mr C has provided information he obtained from a car specialist which said they would 
expect to see a similar vehicle sell for between £14,000 and £15,000.
Mr C is also unhappy that he had to spend time and energy dealing with Admiral over 
several months. He estimates that this was around five hours and wants Admiral to pay him 
his consultancy hourly rate for these hours plus a further £1,000 for the distress caused. 
As Mr C was not happy with Admiral he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that the offer 
made by Admiral was fair. And that it had responded fairly and reasonably to the complaint.
As Mr C is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr and Mrs C following the write-off of their 
car. My role is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the 
offer of settlement is fair. 
I firstly looked at the details within Mr and Mrs Cs motor insurance policy with Admiral. In 
this case within the policy terms and conditions market value is defined as The cost of 
replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model,year, mileage and condition based on 
market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in which you would normally 
shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if you bought your car privately or at an 
auction. Non-European manufactured cars will be valued based on European import values 
or the nearest British equivalent.
The policy further says  If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value 
of the car or items claimed for.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
Admiral said when calculating the value for the car it obtained bespoke valuations from two 
of the main trade guides in order to obtain an accurate caluation for it. The valuations came 
in as £10,750 and £10,840. Admiral offered Mr and Mrs C the highest valuation as the 
settlement amount.
Our investigator also undertook a valuation from a third trade guide, and this valuation was 
for £10,946.
Mr C contested these valuations and said they are not appropriate to his car as it is seen as 
a modern classic and prices for this type of car are increasing.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, however, Im not persuaded 
that Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling their claim at £10,840. I believe 
that this amount is reflective of the value of the vehicle at the time of the claim.
Additionally Mr C said that he is unhappy about the way Admiral dealt with their claim and 
the time he spent dealing with it - which he estimates at around five hours of his time in total. 
There is evidence of regular contact between Admiral and Mr C after the claim was made. 
Before the offer was made Admiral spent time looking into the possibility of repair of Mr Cs 
car before making the decision that it was uneconomical to repair and was to be written off 
as a total loss. In total there was a period of approximately six weeks between the claim 
being submitted and the final offer of £10,840 for a total loss being made by Admiral. 
I recognise Mr C had to take time communicating with Admiral to progress his claim but it 
does not appear that there were any unnecessary delays in his claim, and I am not 
persuaded that Admiral could have dealt with the claim in a different or faster way. I consider 
the claim was handled appropriately and reasonably by Admiral and dont require it to do 
anything more.
Therefore although I understand that it will have been a stressful time for Mr and Mrs C after 
their car was damaged, and found to be beyond economic repair, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman