DRN-3664803
The complaint
Mr G complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited trading as Interactive Investor (II)
didnt keep records of his pension to a professional standard.
What happened
Mr G complained that II didnt correctly show the parts of his pension that were crystallised
and uncrystallised and could not provide detail of his annual allowance and lifetime
allowance figures. He had made regular contributions but these were not shown separately.
He wanted the account to show the amounts held and crystallised and uncrystallised. II
could only provide illustrations and this resulted in the wrong amount shown as a potential
Pension Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS) (the illustration was sent in May 2021). This
meant he delayed taking his PCLS until he had transferred out of II.
II said Mr G requested a transfer to it on 20 April 2020 and the transfer of assets was
completed on 11 October 2020. The delay was due to the transferring scheme. It believed
this was accepted by Mr G and not in contention. However it was not until 21 September
2021 that final papers were received by it. These were normally sent on within 10 days of the
asset transfer. II had chased every month from October 2020 to March 2021, twice in April
2021 and again in May, June and August 2021, before final receipt in September 2021.
II said it operated a notional split for the whole SIPP and didnt show the account allocated
between crystalised and uncrystallised. It noted this was a different approach compared to
that used by the transferring scheme. Any information received from the transferring provider
about the amount crystallised was noted at a SIPP value level rather than at a stock level.
Any new contributions were added to the uncrystallised funds. It confirmed the transfer value
was around £198,000. II didnt think it had done anything wrong but accepted it could have
communicated better and sent Mr G £30 for distress and inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
Where there is a mistake, I can make an award for financial loss and distress and
inconvenience suffered by Mr G.
I considered whether II had made a mistake. I had not set out a detailed timeline of
events as this has already been done by the investigator and the detail had not been
disputed by either party.
II accepted that it didnt communicate as much with Mr G as it could have done. It also felt
this service had widened the complaint compared to that originally set out. But this
service has investigator powers. I noted that the original complaint was made in April 2021
before II issued its final response (in June 2021) and before the illustration was issued in
May 2021. So I thought it was reasonable and efficient for this service to include these points 
in the complaint it was now considering. II had been given an opportunity to comments on 
these further issues so I thought it is fair and reasonable to include them.
Mr G for his part was frustrated that he was told in late 2020 that he would be able to see
information online within 5 days but this didnt happen, that he was provided with an
illustration purporting to help him but the information was wrong (in particular the value
shown was nowhere near the real value of the policy). He was also frustrated by the lack of
information about crystallisation which he said delayed his taking a pension commencement
lump sum.
I could understand Mr Gs frustration at the long time taken to complete the transfer. It 
appeared there is no dispute that this was due to the transferring scheme and II were not at 
fault.
However I noted that II said the asset transfer was completed in October 2020 and the value
was around £198,000. It is unclear why the illustration issued in May 2021 showed a much
lower value of around £20,000. I accepted that without the final documents from the
transferring scheme it would not have been possible to confirm the proportions that were
crystallised. This would have meant Mr G couldnt have relied on the illustration to decide
about his PCLS. But this did not seem to have been explained in the illustration and nor 
does it explain the very significant variation in the policy value. So I thought II did make a 
mistake in that regard and might reasonably have warned Mr G or explained this.
I noted that II said information would be available online within 5 days but was not. It seems
this was suggested after the asset transfer was completed but before the final papers were
released, which meant this was not possible. While the delay was not IIs fault, it surprising it
gave such an indication that this would be possible before it had all it needed. I could
understand that this would have been frustrating for Mr G.
I noted that II took a different approach to presenting information about crystallised versus
uncrystallised amounts. I could understand that this caused frustration for Mr G but I couldnt
direct II how to run its business and it is up to it how it decided to manage and present
information to support records for the Lifetime Allowance.
I therefore thought that in addition to poor communication II also provided inaccurate and
unhelpful information in May and it created an expectation in late 2020 regarding information
that was not then fulfilled. I thought these things caused Mr G distress and inconvenience.
In making an award for distress and inconvenience I considered the impact on Mr G. The
award was not to punish II. Having considered all the facts I thought an award of £100 was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold the complaint and direct that Interactive Investor Services Limited
should pay Mr G £100 (to the extent not already paid in whole or part by the previous offer of
£30) for distress and inconvenience.
Mr G said he agreed with my findings. 
II said it accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my decision, I have not changed my mind. Putting things right
In order to put things rights II should pay Mr G £100 (to the extent not already paid in whole 
or part by the previous offer of £30) for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Interactive Investor Services Limited trading as 
Interactive Investor must pay Mr G £100 (to the extent not already paid in whole or part by 
the previous offer of £30) for distress and inconvenience.
Interactive Investor Services Limited must pay Mr G within 30 days of this service notifying it 
that Mr G has accepted this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman