DRN-4120334
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) didnt do
enough to prevent the loss they suffered when they sent money to a Chase account as the
result of a scam.
Although the loss came from a joint account, for ease of reading and as shes done most of
the correspondence on the complaint, Ill mainly refer to Mrs B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 10 January 2022 Mrs B received text
messages from someone impersonating her son. The messages explained that his old
phone had stopped working and to use the new one moving forwards.
Believing she was helping her son, Mrs B sent two payments of £1,750 and £1,000 from her
joint account with bank S, to the account details provided. She believed this to be for bills
that he had to pay and that he was unable to access his online banking due to the issues
with his phone. The account where the money was received was held with Chase.
Later the same day, Mrs B realised shed been the victim of a scam and she promptly
reported this to S. She also contacted Chase directly numerous times. Ultimately Chase only
returned £0.90, saying this was all that remained in the beneficiary account. I understand
that S refunded half of Mrs Bs loss under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). Mrs B has said she would like Chase to
reimburse her in full, at which point she says she will return what S have paid her, as she
thinks the primary fault lies with Chase.
Mrs B complained and referred the matter to our service. Initially one of our Investigators
was unable to obtain sufficient information from Chase. So she recommended that the
complaint should be upheld as Chase had failed to evidence its position despite being given
numerous opportunities to do so. She recommended that a full refund should be provided.
Chase provided some further information but this didnt change our Investigators opinion on
the complaint. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision. In April 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising
my decision.
This complaint is about Chase, I cant comment on or consider the actions of S. Im aware of
the 50% refund Mrs B has received from S under the CRM Code. So this complaint focusses
on the outstanding loss.
Chase havent been able to evidence all the checks that they undertook when opening the
account in question. But they have said that they correctly followed their processes and that
a passport was submitted by their accountholder as proof of identity. Where evidence is
missing or inconclusive, I have to make my findings on the balance of probability, that being
what I think is most likely to have happened. Chase are primarily an online app based bank,
as such they will have a defined process for the opening of accounts. And despite them not
being able to evidence this now, Ive no reason to suspect that their process wasnt
appropriately followed at the time. I think the structured nature of their online application
process makes this more likely than not. And what information is available, suggests that a
passport was provided as part of the proof of identity required.
Ive next considered the activity on the account that received Mrs Bs funds. Chase have
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to conduct ongoing due diligence in relation to
their accounts. Within around 30 minutes of the payments crediting the account, the vast
majority of the funds they represented had all been spent in a series of outgoing payments.
As part of their ongoing due diligence, Id expect Chase to be paying close attention to newly
opened accounts, (such as this one) as they present a heightened risk of potential
illegitimate use.
Id also have expected Chase to have considered the overall amounts involved, the velocity
of the spending as well as where it was going. New payees, cash withdrawals, payments to
crypto-currency or prepaid cards can all be indicators of potential fraudulent account use.
Had the account activity continued as it started, its likely I would have expected Chase to
have intervened in the account. But Im mindful that there are competing demands between
facilitating genuine banking activity and stopping and checking payments. And that there
must be an element of proportionality in what can reasonably be expected.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, the outgoing payments didnt reach the point
where they were so suspicious or indicative of potential fraudulent use of the account where
I think Chase ought to have intervened and done more prior to processing them. There was
also nothing about the incoming payments that ought to have given Chase cause for
concern. Accordingly, I dont think Chase reasonably could have prevented Mrs Bs loss in
this way.
Mrs Bs testimony is that she started her call to S to report the scam at 5.03pm. And the
evidence from Chase is that S first informed them at 6.38pm. This timeline seems to be
plausible, and by the time Chase were notified, only the £0.90 that was returned remained.
So, I dont think there were any failures by Chase in their response to the notification from S
which impacted on what could be recovered. All bar the £0.90 had already been paid away
by the time they were on notice that Mrs Bs payments had been made as a result of fraud.
Mrs B reported the scam directly to Chase on 11 January 2022. There were also several
subsequent calls between her and Chase with Mrs B seeking updates. Chase correctly
informed Mrs B that the process in such circumstances is for the communication to be
between the two banks, and so they often referred Mrs B back to S. This is in line with
standard industry practice. Usually the sending bank makes enquiries on behalf of their
customer with the bank that received the funds.
I can understand why Mrs B wanted to do all she could to recover her money, and her
anxiety about what remained in the account. Mrs B said she was never told that only £0.90
remains. She says she took being told that funds remained meant all the money was still
there. She believes shes received poor service from Chase and that the small amount being
returned felt like being scammed all over again.Ive listened to all the call recordings that Chase have been able to provide, this includes the
initial call where Mrs B reported the scam directly to them. And I havent heard her being told
that her funds remained in the account. But even if this is wrong and Mrs B was told that
funds remained, it wouldnt have been confirmation that they all remained or that they were
going to be returned to her (as they could have already been spent whilst still appearing as
pending in an account).
On the whole, I think the conversations Mrs B had with Chase were well handled and their
agents tried to help her as best they could. I wouldnt have expected them to have discussed
the recipient account directly with Mrs B and this would include what, if any, funds remained.
They also potentially wouldnt have had accurate information in that regard anyway, as whilst
there is no obligation on them to do so, banks do sometimes try to recover funds from other
banks where they may have been sent on to. And in such circumstances, they may be
awaiting a response from second generation banks as to whether a recovery had been
made.
Overall, I dont think Chase provided Mrs B with poor service in relation to the way in which
they communicated with her in the aftermath of the scam such that a compensation award is
appropriate.
Mrs B also mentioned that she would like Chase to sign up to the CRM Code and update the
confirmation of payee (CoP) system to flag when an account is under investigation.
Whether or not to sign up to the voluntary CRM Code is a decision for Chase. And Im not
able to direct a business to update its systems or processes in the way Mrs B would like,
especially where (as here) CoP is an industry scheme between banks and not solely in
Chases control.
Im of course sorry to hear that Mrs B has an outstanding loss arising from the money she
sent as a result of a scam. And I dont doubt this has been a very upsetting incident for her
from start to finish. But as I dont think Chase caused her outstanding loss, or hindered its
recovery, Im not intending to direct them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Chase responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mrs B responded with several 
further comments and questions that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all Mrs B has sent in in response to my provisional decision. I dont, 
however, intend to respond in similar detail. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. My role doesnt require that I persuade Mrs B 
of my outcome, rather I just need to explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded to change my mind from the outcome explained in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. Mrs B says that she contacted Chase as S 
were limited to answer questions as one would expect due to Data Protection rules and 
confidentiality. But as Ive mentioned above, the standard industry practice is for victims of 
scams to report this to their own bank. And for that bank to then liaise with other banks on 
their customers behalf. And its unclear as to why Mrs B thinks Chase wouldnt be subject to 
the same restrictions regarding data protection and privacy that she seems to accept S 
were. I understand that S had taken Mrs Bs report of fraud and explained the timescales for a 
response. And whilst I can understand why Mrs B wanted to expedite this, I cant fairly blame 
Chase for complications or confusion which arose from acting outside the normal processes. 
As Ive covered above, I think Chase handled the calls from Mrs B appropriately and overall, 
Im still not persuaded there was poor service such that a compensation award should be 
made. This includes Mrs Bs comments about the time taken and missed deadlines to 
provide information to our service.  
Mrs B pointed out that our Investigator initially upheld the complaint based on a lack of 
information from Chase. I agree that was the case. But my role requires that I complete my 
own independent review, based on the available evidence  which is what Ive done. 
Mrs B is adamant that she was told by one of Chases agents that funds remained during 
her initial call to them. She says she specifically remembers this as she told the agent to 
freeze the account. Ive re-listened to the call where Mrs B reported the scam to Chase and 
at no point was she told that all her funds remained. Although both she and Mr B can be 
heard saying they are hopeful that the account can be frozen. The reality is that by the time 
of this call, S had already been in touch with Chase the previous day and appropriate action 
had already been taken. 
Mrs B has questioned my conclusion regarding the opening of the account. She points out 
that Chase havent provided a copy of the passport or of the selfie that also would have been 
required. Shes also pointed out that there have been media reports of system problems with 
Chases app, which she says means it cant be relied upon as a robust procedure. Where 
evidence is incomplete or missing, it doesnt automatically mean that there has been a 
failure. I still need to make my findings on what I think, on balance, is most likely. And the 
problems Mrs B has highlighted about Chases app, dont persuade me that in these 
circumstances there has been a failure when opening the account. Overall, Im not 
persuaded there is evidence to support that there were failings by Chase which means the 
account was opened when it shouldnt have been  or that they reasonably could have 
known, at the time, it would later go on to be used in connection with a scam.  
Mrs B has also asked for our service to share information with her which includes the details 
of system notes, and timings, amounts and destinations of payments made from the Chase 
account. The rules which govern our service allow us to accept evidence in confidence from 
businesses to allow us to perform our function. And whilst this cant be shared directly with 
Mrs B, it was described in my provisional decision which then allowed her an opportunity to 
comment. Part of Mrs Bs reasoning for wanting this information is so it can be passed on to 
the police. The police will have their own processes for gathering information they might 
require as part of their investigations. And Im confident that Chase will co-operate with any 
law enforcement requesting information from them. But there isnt a basis upon which I, or 
our service, can share information about another persons account or information that might 
be commercially sensitive and that has been shared in confidence with our service.  
As I explained in my provisional decision, there were certain factors which might have 
indicated the Chase account was at a heightened risk of potentially being used in connection 
with a fraud or scam. But I maintain that there must be an element of proportionality as to 
what could reasonably be expected. Banks cant be involved in every payment entering and 
leaving an account. And in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Chase didnt intervene in the account. 
Im sorry Mrs B has an outstanding loss as a result of the money she sent to a scammer. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to require Chase to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman