DRN-4082340
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly provided her with two credit cards she 
couldnt afford to repay. Shes also unhappy with the credit limit increases (CLIs) it 
subsequently applied to the accounts.
What happened
In February 2019 NewDay opened a Marbles credit card account for Miss H. The credit limit 
was set at £600 and was increased on four occasions in all, the second of which was in July 
2021  when it went from £1,600 to £3,100. 
In September 2021 NewDay opened an Aqua credit card account for Miss H. The credit limit 
was set at £1,200 and was increased once in February 2022. 
In April 2022, Miss H complained to NewDay that it shouldnt have given her the credit cards 
or the subsequent CLIs. She said if NewDay had completed appropriate affordability checks 
it would have seen that the credit was unaffordable for her. 
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks which 
showed Miss H could afford the various credit limits it had provided her with.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Miss H complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld in part. They said the credit was 
likely to be unaffordable for her from the time of the second CLI on the Marbles card and 
from the start of the Aqua account. Thats because of the amount of credit offered in itself, 
and when viewed in the light of Miss Hs other unsecured borrowing which had increased 
significantly in a relatively short space of time, and her low levels (and sometimes lack) of 
disposable income. 
NewDay didnt agree with the investigators findings. It focussed on the second CLI applied 
to the Marbles card, saying it conducted reasonable and proportional checks based on its 
review of the information provided to it by the credit reference agencies (CRAs) it used at 
that time. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im not going to address the lending decision regarding the opening of the Marbles credit 
card, or the first CLI on that card, in detail here. Thats because Miss H hasnt disputed those 
(or any other) aspects of the investigators assessment  which werent decided in her favour 
 issued before the complaint came to me. But for completeness I confirm that I broadly 
agree with the investigators findings on those lending decisions and with their reasoning. In 
summary, I believe:
The evidence NewDay obtained in February 2019 showed Miss H had a gross 
annual income of £35,000 but also a relatively low level of unsecured debt in 
comparison, which stood at £1,400.
The credit checks NewDay carried out showed defaulted accounts but none in the 15 
months leading up to the application. There was little else of concern in the results of 
its credit checks. 
There was little sign that Miss H was in financial difficulty at that time. The checks 
NewDay had carried out were, on balance, reasonable and proportionate.
With a relatively low initial credit limit of £600, it follows that the minimum monthly 
payments would also have been relatively low. 
There was insufficient reason overall for NewDay to suspect, given the checks it had 
carried out and the available information, that Miss H might struggle to sustainably 
afford the credit card repayments.
The first CLI to £1,600 was substantial but was applied more than two years after the 
account was opened. 
The credit information obtained by NewDay at the time of the first CLI showed 
Miss Hs unsecured borrowing had increased significantly since the account started 
to more than £8,500. But its likely further checks would have broadly showed her 
finances were in reasonable order and that the first CLI was affordable. 
As Ive alluded to above, prior to each lending decision, NewDay was required to ensure it 
carried out affordability checks. Thats irrespective of whether, as NewDay argued in 
response to the investigators assessment, its lending criteria were met. There isnt a set list 
of checks it needed to complete but it needed to ensure those checks were proportionate in 
the circumstances. Whats considered proportionate will vary taking account of things such 
as (but not limited to) the amount of credit, the cost, and the borrowers circumstances. 
NewDay says it understood Miss H had a gross annual income £35,000 in February 2019. At 
the time of the second CLI to £3,100 on the Marbles card, shed only had use of the previous 
limit of £1,600 for four months. NewDays enquiries from that time showed her unsecured 
borrowing had risen sharply to almost £11,000. 
Taking account of the quick and substantial increase regarding the second CLI from the first, 
and the sharp rise in the level of Miss Hs unsecured debt, I think NewDay ought to have 
become aware that she was likely to be struggling with her existing financial situation with a 
limit of £1,600.
When NewDay increased the limit to £3,100, the credit checks it completed showed Miss Hs 
unsecured debt was more than seven times higher than it had been when the Marbles 
account started less than three years before.
Had NewDay carried out further checks at the time of the second CLI, it probably would have 
seen Miss H had very little  if any  disposable income on a month-to-month basis. Copy 
bank statements from that time show her account was regularly in deficit. 
Given all of this, I think NewDay ought to have become aware that almost doubling Miss Hs 
existing credit limit was likely to be unaffordable for her and would cause her financial 
difficulty. So, I dont believe NewDay made a fair lending decision when it increased the 
credit limit on the Marbles account to £3,100 despite carrying out the checks that it did. 
It follows, by extension, that NewDay ought not to have increased its lending to Miss H after 
the first CLI on the Marbles credit card, either through that account or by offering the Aqua 
account.Putting things right
NewDay should put things right for Miss H in relation to the second CLI on the Marbles credit 
card and from the start of the Aqua credit card account, albeit shes had the benefit of the 
money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal amounts. So, NewDay should: 
Rework the Marbles credit card account to ensure that, from July 2021, interest is 
only charged on the first £1,600 outstanding  to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided on that account.
Rework Miss Hs Aqua credit card account so that all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from the start are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains on either account once these adjustments have 
been made, NewDay should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any relevant adverse information should be 
removed from the credit file. 
And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance on either of the accounts, any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss H. 
And
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require NewDay Ltd to 
put things right for Miss H as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman