DRN-2886696
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limiteds mobile app provided an 
unclear and misleading picture of his contribution to his Lifetime ISA and this led to him 
underfunding it.
What happened
Nutmeg said that Mr M was able to view all his contributions on the second tab of its app.
An investigator at this service did not feel Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr M paid £3,625 in the 2019/20 tax year but because Nutmegs mobile app doesnt 
offer a transaction history, he was unclear how much hed personally contributed
However, Nutmegs app has two contribution headings: the first heading includes 
personal contribution and government bonuses and the other includes just personal 
contributions
While Nutmeg Savings website shows all transaction history, Mr M believes this 
should also be shown on the mobile app
Nutmeg has subsequently introduced a Transaction History tab on their mobile app
Mr Ms account with Nutmeg Saving is execution-only  meaning its up to the 
consumer to monitor their subscriptions and ensure they contribute what they wanted
The purpose of its home page is to show investment performance, rather than 
confirming the LISA allowance which has been used. The home page says, the 
contributions include the government bonus  although Mr M may not have seen this 
as it isnt at the top of the page; however, he didnt think Nutmeg acted unfairly as it 
still is displayed within the home page
Even if this wasnt displayed on the home page, he didnt think Nutmeg had acted 
unfairly as the second tab on the app allows customers to see specifically how much 
of their LISA allowance has been used within the tax year, and how much is 
remaining. This tab is easy to access and clearly displays personal contributions
Mr M also said he was unhappy that the app didnt show his transaction history. This 
information was available if using their website rather than the app, so he did have 
access to it. He was also able to view all contributions on the second tab of their app, 
so he didnt think Nutmeg Saving acted unfairly
Mr M disagreed, saying:
I don't think it's acceptable to say that the information I needed was available because it 
required very unrealistic exploration to find it. Surely there is a point where the UX is simply 
not good enough for me to make decisions even if the information I needed is literally 
available.
My main issues are:
 
Within the LISA dashboard, Nutmeg should not provide information that is not clearly 
defined. The supposed definition of what "Contributed" means, which says "*The 
contributions include the Government bonus", is a) not in a reasonable position and b) 
doesn't relate to an associated * anywhere. It's not actually a definition of "Contributed" value 
at the top of the page... it's a caveat of the information given within the "Projected value by" 
box. So as a user I shouldnt be expected to read the whole page to get an indirect definition 
of what "Contributed" means at the top of the page.
The second tab at the bottom of the App shows my LISA contributions clearly, but why 
would I go to that tab when I am offered a link to my LISA from the App home? The 
information on the second tab should live within the LISA account, not outside of it.
Overall, I just don't think it's reasonable to be expected to read every inch of the page and 
explore the App to "work out" what everything means. So although the information is literally 
there, I don't believe the UX is clear enough to make it acceptable for me to do what I 
wanted to do. If they are going to provide information to the user it must be located logically 
and if they want to use the same label (Contributed) for different figures, then they must 
provide clear and closely positioned definitions to help the user.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
these.
Crucially, I believe Nutmeg is entitled to make its own business decisions as to how to 
display information and on what platforms as long this does not prevent customers 
accessing key data about their accounts.
In this respect, Mr M was able to double-check how much he had contributed to his LISA 
either by calling Nutmeg or accessing his account via its website. So I cannot fairly conclude 
that Nutmeg prevented Mr M discovering what, if any, scope he had for making further 
contributions.
Equally, this information was available via its app, though I accept that this was not in as 
accessible a form as Mr M would have wanted. But this alone is simply not sufficient to 
conclude that Nutmeg prevented Mr M from accessing his account or that it did something 
wrong. I therefore dont agree with Mr Ms recent points about what Nutmegs responsibilities 
re providing the information in the format he specifies. 
In particular, I dont share Mr Ms view that the heading contributions is misleading and/or 
implies this includes the government bonus. I can see why some customers might be 
unclear whether it includes the bonus, it would then be for them  as execution-only clients  
to check out this issue  either by looking further into app, going on Nutmegs website or 
calling an advisor.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman