DRN-4325676
The complaint
Mr A complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) didnt treat him fairly when he was in 
financial difficulty, and unfairly terminated his agreement.
 
What happened
Mr A entered a hire purchase agreement with PSA in November 2021 to acquire a used car. 
The agreement ran for 48 months and required Mr A to make a payment of £510.72 each 
month.  
At the end of April 2022, Mr A contacted PSA to tell them hed be going overseas for medical 
treatment, and so wouldnt be able to maintain his payments for a period of three months. He 
asked for a payment break.
 
PSA said they told Mr A they couldnt offer a payment break, but they referred his case to a 
specialist team to review his options. 
The payment due on 15 April 2022 wasnt made, and PSA sent Mr A a letter on 5 May 2022 
to set out that hed missed this payment. The payment due on 15 May 2022 wasnt made, 
and PSA sent Mr A a default notice on 17 May 2022 for arrears of £1,021.44.  
Mr A called PSA on 23 May 2022 and confirmed that hed be out of the country for 
treatment. He asked for a payment break. PSA told Mr A they couldnt offer a payment 
break. They said they might be able to come to a payment arrangement, but this would 
require an assessment of Mr As income and expenditure (I&E) before an arrangement could 
be put in place. Mr A said his I&E wouldnt be accurate until he returned to the country and 
went back to work. 
Mr A said that PSA agreed to put his account on hold until hed returned to work and could 
complete the I&E and enter a repayment arrangement. Mr A said he told PSA that he didnt 
want the agreement to go into default and offered to return the car but was told to call PSA 
once hed returned to the country.  
PSA said they asked Mr A for the date that he intended to return to work, and he agreed that 
he would send this. But, as no further contact was received and attempts at contacting Mr A 
failed, the arrears on the agreement continued to build. 
PSA tried to contact Mr A about his arrears a number of times and ultimately terminated his 
agreement on 7 July 2022. 
Mr A complained to PSA in July 2022 about the termination. He said he was told the account 
was on hold, and so was surprised that the agreement was terminated. 
PSA sent Mr A their final response to his complaint in July 2022. They said they were waiting 
for Mr A to confirm his return-to-work date, and they issued ten notices asking him to contact 
them, so it was reasonable to say that the agreement was no longer affordable for Mr A, and 
so they terminated it fairly. They didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He 
said PSA gave him advice that was inconsistent with their actions, and they shouldnt have 
terminated the agreement. Mr A would like the balance hes been asked to pay written off, 
and adverse information removed from his credit file, along with compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator gave his view that PSA were waiting for information from Mr A, and when 
this wasnt received, they tried to contact him a number of times, so he thought PSA had 
acted fairly when terminating Mr As agreement, particularly considering they have a duty to 
ensure arrears dont become unmanageable. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he told PSA hed be going overseas and wouldnt be able to pay, 
he was told he could provide information when he returned to the country, and the 
agreement was unfairly terminated when the account should have been on hold. 
Mr A said hed offered to return the car before he went overseas to avoid a default on his 
credit file, but this was refused. Mr A said PSA made no meaningful attempts to contact him 
when they knew he wouldnt be at his home address and would be recovering from medical 
treatment. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
The agreement requires Mr A to make a payment in full and on time each month. There are 
no provisions in the agreement for payment breaks or other alterations to the payment 
schedule, so whilst I understand that Mr A was due to leave the country for medical reasons, 
and a period of recovery, Im satisfied that PSA acted in line with the agreement when they 
told Mr A that they couldnt offer him a payment break. 
In not making his payment in April 2022, Mr A breached the terms of the agreement, and his 
account fell into arrears. Mr A went on to miss his May 2022 payment, putting his account 
further into arrears and PSA issued a default notice to Mr A. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says in relation to 
payment arrangements, a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of a 
payment arrangement are broken. I consider this to be representative of good industry 
practice. And as a minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles 
when deciding whether to default a consumers agreement. In this case, I think it was appropriate for PSA to report a default to Mr As agreement as he 
broke the terms of his payment arrangement. And so, PSA was entitled to register that the 
agreement had defaulted as per the ICO guidance.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out in section 87(1) that a default notice is 
necessary before the creditor is entitled to terminate the agreement or recover the goods.  
Section 88 of the CCA sets out that the default notice must:
Specify the nature of the alleged breach 
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid. 
Im satisfied that the default notice that PSA issued was in line with the CCA requirements. 
Where its customers are facing financial difficulty, PSA have a responsibility to treat them 
with due consideration and forbearance. I can see that PSA wrote to Mr A on at least two 
occasions and tried to call, text and email him a number of times, asking him to contact them 
in April and May 2022 when his account was in arrears. 
I can see that Mr A asked for a payment break when he spoke to PSA in May 2022. He 
explained hed be out of the country for some time. PSA explained this wouldnt be possible. 
PSA offered to hold the account, which would mean that Mr A would still accrue arrears on 
the account, and to arrange a payment plan to pay these arrears when he returned to the 
country. They also offered to restructure the agreement so that Mr A could repay the arrears. 
But they said they needed to complete an I&E in order to make sure that any restructuring or 
payment arrangement was affordable for Mr A. 
Based on the evidence I have; Im persuaded that PSA attempted to treat Mr A with due 
consideration and forbearance. Part of treating consumers with forbearance is ensuring that 
arrears dont build to unsustainable levels, and that debt can be repaid sustainably. So, Im 
persuaded that it was reasonable for PSA to ask for Mr As expected return to work date and 
an I&E before they were able to come to an affordable arrangement for him. 
When this wasnt received, and another payment was missed after the default notice 
expired, PSA tried to contact Mr A a number of times by text, email and post. They didnt 
hear from him, and so the agreement was terminated in July 2022.
I do understand that Mr A was harder to reach because he was out of the country, and that 
PSA were aware of this. Taking into account the options provided to Mr A, and that he hadnt 
given PSA the information they needed in order to enter a payment arrangement for the 
arrears, alongside PSAs obligation to ensure that the arrears dont become unmanageable, 
Im satisfied that the termination was completed in line with the terms of the agreement, and 
so Im not asking PSA to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Zoe MerrimanOmbudsman