DRN-3497145
The complaint
Miss E complains that Freemans Plc (Freemans) irresponsibly gave her a running 
account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2001, Miss E applied for a credit account with Freemans. There were many increases 
to Miss Es credit limits over the years. Miss E explained to Freemans that she was in 
financial hardship in June 2019. 
In 2020, Miss E complained to Freemans to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Freemans ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss E didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Freemans will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
We are unable to consider Miss Es initial account opening and any credit limit increase 
that took place before 6 April 2007 as this is the date consumer credit providers came 
under our jurisdiction. And Freemans told us it has no account information it can share 
before 2014. Fortunately, Miss E has been able to provide some account information from 
statements she kept over the years. 
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Es complaint is that Freemans made credit available that was unaffordable. Freemans 
has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending and that it had regard for 
how the account was being used. Its possible that Freemans failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Miss E with increased credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Freemans to think the credit increases were 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits (that we can consider) appear to have been 
modest and the payments on them would have been relatively modest. And whilst the 
increases to the credit limits took the account to levels of credit that were not modest, I 
dont think they became unreasonable necessarily. I say that because the bank account 
details provided by Miss E, seem to show a regular income of a significant level into her 
banking account. And whilst the bank account does show evidence of other borrowings 
from other lenders, I think that these are insufficient evidence, in this case, of financial 
difficulty, such that a better affordability check would have dissuaded Freemans from 
offering more lending. And I say that because Miss Es account appears to have been 
largely well managed with a mostly positive balance.  
And the Freemans account itself was largely well managed. There were some moments in 
which it was not so well run. But the amounts in arrears and the number of such moments 
appear to be modest in a lending relationship which lasted over twenty years. In saying 
that, I have considered the account statements that Miss E has provided and having done 
so, I consider that both the number of times I have noted arrears and the size of the 
arrears themselves, are not of a nature sufficient to have made the lending unreasonable. 
And the credit limits were mostly modest. And whilst some werent modest, I do not 
necessarily consider that any were unreasonable. But even if I had thought that about the 
later credit limits, Miss E was not someone who used her full credit limit, so its not clear 
that she would have suffered any detriment from when they rose to the amounts they did 
in the later years of the account. For example, the credit limit increased to £2250 in 
December 2013. And from there it increased four more times to £3050 in February 2018. 
Even if I thought these credit limits were unaffordable, which I dont, then the redress 
would be to remove any interest from the account on balances that were over whatever 
credit limit I though was not unreasonable. But Miss E managed her account such that the 
balance never exceeded £2100. So, Miss E has suffered no detriment, had the later credit 
limits been unreasonable.   
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss E to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Freemans to think that the credit it 
provided Miss E was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss E was 
managing her account or what Freemans could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss E will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Miss E to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
I have also considered whether Freemans treated Miss E with forbearance when she 
explained she was in financial difficulty. I think they did. Payment plans were put in place 
and interest on the account was suspended. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman