DRN-3455102
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) wont refund payments she 
made investment scammers.
 
What happened
Mrs Z was interested in investing and was cold called by a representative of eXcentral, a 
brand belonging to Mount Nico Corp Ltd (Mount Nico). After many conversations with one of 
Mount Nicos brokers, she agreed to invest £250 using her Tesco Bank Mastercard credit 
card. Mrs Z was subsequently contacted by one of Mount Nicos account managers who 
said she needed to invest at least £10,000 for a professional account  where she could 
carry out life changing cryptocurrency investments. 
Mrs Z agree to invest more and from 27 December 2020 to 4 January 2021, she made three 
further Mastercard credit card payments totalling £8,650. Mrs Z also made payments using a 
different account with another banking provider - which is the subject of a separate complaint 
at this office. 
Mrs Z said her account manager used persuasive tactics to encourage her to deposit more 
and carried out large trades on her behalf even though she was inexperienced. She said her 
account manager also tried to persuade her to take out lending in order to finance her 
investments. 
When Mrs Z tried to withdraw her funds, she was unable to. She realised that she may have 
fallen victim to a scam and contacted Tesco Bank to help recover her payments. 
Tesco Bank considered Mrs Zs claim and decided not to refund her because it said S75 
didnt apply to her transactions and it couldnt process chargeback claims for her. 
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, Mrs Z referred her complaint to this office. One of our 
Investigators didnt think that Tesco Bank acted unreasonably when assessing her 
complaint. 
Mrs Z didnt agree, she provided evidence that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
suspended Mount Nicos operations in the UK in April 2021. She also noted that the FCA 
suspended the operations of four similar firms regulated in Cyprus. She asked for an 
Ombudsman to issue a final decision. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mrs Zs case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that Mount Nico had no adverse 
information reported about them at the time Mrs Z authorised her payments to them. What I 
have noted is that they were regulated by CySEC at the time of Mrs Zs payments with 
passporting rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers. 
Ive noted the FCA restricted Mount Nicos ability to offer regulated services in the UK from 9 
April 2021  however this was after Mrs Z made all of her payments. 
Ive also noted that the FCA removed passporting rights from other CySEC regulated firms 
and went so far as to say the operations were scams but Ive not seen any evidence that it 
considered Mount Nico was operating a scam. 
So whilst I accept Mrs Z lost significant sums, Ive not seen enough credible evidence to 
persuade me that Mount Nico was a scam company. 
With that being said, I have considered whether Tesco Bank acted unreasonably when 
choosing to decline her chargeback and section 75 claims. 
Chargeback
Tesco are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. And 
whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice to raise one 
where there is a reasonable prospect of success. Our service has clarified the position with 
Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed there are very limited options for payments 
that have gone to any type of investment. The only possible avenue for success is if funds 
arent credited from the card to the investment account. That isnt the argument here.
Being the victim of an alleged scam isnt something the Mastercard chargeback scheme 
provides dispute resolution options for. So taking all of this into consideration I think Tesco 
Bank declining to raise chargeback claims on Mrs Zs behalf was a reasonable exercise of 
its discretion. Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
For S75 to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain between the 
debtor (Mrs Z), creditor (Tesco Bank) and the supplier (Mount Nico). Ill refer to this as the 
DCS chain. And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract 
and/or a misrepresentation between Mrs Z and Mount Nico in relation to a contract that was 
funded by the Tesco Bank credit card.
From my review of Mrs Zs Tesco Bank statements, Mount Nico are listed on her statements, 
so Im satisfied there was an unbroken DCS chain between Mrs Z and Mount Nico. 
Next is the consideration that the transactions are financed by the agreement. Here, the 
deposit onto a trading platform should have entitled Mrs Z to use the deposits on her trading 
account and withdraw them as and when she wished. So Im satisfied her deposits financed 
this agreement with Mount Nico. 
Next is the consideration of Mrs Zs claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract. 
I note the main ground Mrs Z is looking to rely on to establish this is that Mount Nico were 
operating illegally. Ive already explained above why Ive not seen any evidence that this has 
been proven.
Ive seen that Mrs Z made a withdrawal request of £4,000 on 21 January 2021, this request 
was successfully processed to another bank account held by Mrs Z with another banking 
provider. So I cant agree that they didnt process withdrawal requests for Mrs Z. 
Mrs Z says Mount Nico breached Clause 17 in the Client Agreement by closing 6 trading 
transactions on 18 February 2021 at fraudulent prices not quoted on their platform, which 
resulted in her losing her available balances. She also says they breached Clause 11 in the 
Client Agreement by pushing her to invest in highly volatile assets such as Bitcoin. 
Ive seen that Mrs Z advised in one of her covering complaint letters to her other banking 
provider that she was never sent a client agreement. But she states she found an agreement 
on their website which is now not accessible but appeared to be from January 2021. Ive not 
seen a copy of this full agreement and I cant be sure that it was applicable to Mrs Z or 
applicable at the time she entered into her contract with Mount Nico as she did so in 
December 2020  albeit she also made payments in early January 2021. 
Mrs Z states that Mount Nico used fraudulent trade prices to bring her account balance to 
zero. And the price her trades were closed at were not reflective of the high and low prices 
during the timeframe her trades were closed. However, the clause Mrs Z references relates 
to transactions completing at a certain price quoted on the Trading Platform. Mrs Z has not 
provided the amount she was quoted at the point her positions were closed and that this 
quote differed to the price her positions were eventually closed at, so I cant agree her 
closing positions were fictitious or not at the certain price quoted on the Trading Platform. 
Mrs Z also referenced a quote which stated Mount Nico will not advise the Client about the 
merits of a particular Order or give him any form of investment advice. She provided details 
of an email where her account manager says he has a few options with some big 
Opportunities today. Im not persuaded amounts to evidence of investment advice as Mrs Z 
was offered options rather than advice.  
Ive also noted that Mrs Z says she was asked to create a professional trading account even 
though she was an inexperienced investor. The investment may well have not been suitable 
for Mrs Z but Im not persuaded that the suitability of her investment account amounts to a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Im of course sorry to hear Mrs Z lost such a significant amount of money. But on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can tell 
Tesco Bank it needs to refund Mrs Zs losses in accordance with S75 because Im not 
satisfied a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract has been established. 
Ive noted Mrs Z said she complained directly to Mount Nico and received no response. If 
she hasnt already, she may wish to consider whether she has the option to refer her 
complaint to The Financial Ombudsman of the Republic of Cyprus.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Zs losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman