DRN-4300932
The complaint
Ms B complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost when she was the victim of a 
scam. 
Ms B is represented by a firm Ill refer to as A. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In late 2022 Ms B was the victim of a romance scam. She met the scammer, H, through an 
online dating website and spoke with him every day through instant messenger apps. After 
about a month H explained to Ms B that he needed to pay a penalty for not correctly filling 
out required paperwork for his construction company in a foreign country. H said his bank 
account was frozen and, although hed been able to borrow most of the money (£330,000) 
from a friend, he asked if Ms B could lend him the other £20,000 which he promised to pay 
back. 
H told Ms B to open a bank account with Revolut to send the money to him via a legitimate 
crypto exchange. The relevant payments are:
Date Amount
1 November 2022 €5,500
1 November 2022 €5,500
2 November 2022 €5,500
2 November 2022 €5,500
2 November 2022 €1,250
Total: €23,250
After sending the money, Hs behaviour started to change. He then stopped replying to Ms B 
a few weeks later. At this point, Ms B realised shed been scammed. 
In April 2023 A complained to Revolut on Ms Bs behalf. In short, they said Revolut failed to 
pick up on out of character payments that were indicative Ms B was a victim of fraud. And 
had Revolut appropriately intervened the fraud wouldve been prevented. So, Ms Bs loss 
was preventable and Revolut should reimburse her and pay 8% interest. 
Revolut rejected the complaint. They said, despite numerous requests, Ms B was unable to 
provide them with the conversation history of the scam as she has since deleted it. And so, 
they couldnt proceed with their investigation, or attempt recovery of the funds, without this 
additional information. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Revolut had to do anything further. He said Revolut contacted Ms B regarding one of the 
payments and provided online warnings. But while he thought Revoluts intervention wasnt 
sufficient, he thought Ms B was convinced H was a genuine person  given they spoke daily 
and were planning on starting a family together - and that B couldnt reasonably have broken 
the spell she was under and prevented the payments being made. He also noted that Ms B 
suffered from a bipolar disorder at the time which A said impacted her decision making. But 
Ms B cant recall informing Revolut, and as they have no record of it, he didnt think Revolut 
wouldve been aware of it or able to consider it. 
A disagreed and, in short, they added:
Revolut shouldve intervened on the first €5,500 payment and, if they had done so 
appropriately, Ms B wouldnt have proceeded. 
The chat history, when Revolut did reach out to Ms B, wasnt sufficient considering 
the out of character and high-risk nature of the payments. Revolut asked closed 
questions and failed to probe or question Ms B properly.
Ms B was sending money to a crypto exchange but, believing it to be the correct 
option, she selected goods and services as the payment purpose. This shouldve 
been a red flag to Revolut and the chat with Ms B consisted of irrelevant questions. 
Ms B was never questioned on anything related to crypto. 
Electronic Money Institutions (EMI), like Revolut, mustnt rely on automated controls 
and chat bots. They also have the same regulatory requirements to prevent fraud as 
banks. And fraudsters have been making their victims set up new accounts with EMIs 
as they have poor fraud controls. 
To say no intervention wouldve stopped the scam, as Ms B spoke with H every day 
and believed she was in a relationship, suggests no romance scam can be 
prevented. This is because in all romance scams the victim believes theyre in a 
genuine relationship and speak regularly with the scammer. This doesnt mean any 
intervention wouldnt be fruitful. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Ms B has been the victim of a scam and lost a significant amount of money. And I 
dont underestimate the impact this has had on her. But while I know this will come as a 
disappoint to Ms B, for similar reasons as our Investigator, I dont think Revolut has acted 
unfairly by not refunding her loss. 
Revolut isnt signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which can offer 
a potential means of obtaining a refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. 
Ive therefore considered whether Revolut should reimburse Ms B under any of their 
obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an EMI is expected to process payments 
that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Ms B knowingly 
made the payments from her Revolut account. I appreciate Ms B was tricked by the 
scammer as she thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im satisfied 
the payments were authorised by Ms B. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
and the terms of her account, Revolut are expected to process the payments and Ms B is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Here, Revolut provided online warnings at the point Ms B submitted the first payment 
request online  including one that said, this transfer can be a scam and our system 
identified this transfer as risky and put it to pending as [the] transfer is riskier than 99.2% of 
all Revolut transfers. Ms B proceeded with making the payment and, after selecting 
Payment for Goods and Services as the payment purpose, she was asked a series of 
questions by a Revolut agent. These were:
Are you paying for something where the price or offer seems too good to be true?
Has the recipient asked you to pay via bank transfer instead of the payment method 
recommended by reputable online retailers?
Is the product or service youre purchasing being advertised on a social media 
platform?
Ms B answered these questions no, confirmed the recipient was valid and that she 
understood Revolut may not be able to recover any loss after the funds are sent. 
I think it was reasonable for Revolut to highlight to Ms B, via an online warning, that the 
transfer was risky and that it could be a scam. Ms B decided to proceed and, while arguably 
it wasnt strictly accurate, she selected the payment purpose as paying for goods and 
services. But based on the options available to Ms B, I dont think this was unreasonable as 
none of the others applied to her situation  and so, other than something else, it was the 
closest option as she was buying goods in the form of crypto (albeit to send to H). 
From this, one of Revoluts agents asked Ms B a series of questions and Ive considered, 
given they had an opportunity to identify whether Ms B was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud, whether this was sufficient. Having done so, I dont think it was as the questions were 
closed questions that failed to sufficiently probe Ms B about the nature of the payment  
including, for example, what she was buying and how she came across it. I therefore dont 
think Revolut did enough to identify whether Ms B was at risk of financial harm. 
Ive then gone on to think about what wouldve likely happened had Revolut appropriately 
questioned Ms B about the payment. Having done so, Im not persuaded it wouldve made a 
difference. This is because, as part of sending money to her Revolut account, Ms Bs 
existing banking provider carried out a security check and questioned her about one of the 
payments. In this call, Ms B confirmed the payment was for trading purposes and was also 
asked whether shed received any recent calls, texts or emails for the past few days asking 
or forcing you to make any payments. Ms B answered this no.
Although Ms B was buying crypto, I dont think trading was an accurate description of the 
purpose of the payment. This is because she was merely purchasing the crypto to send to H 
so that he could pay the invoice. As Ms B has since deleted her chat history with H, I cant 
be sure when he exactly asked her to send the money and whether it was specifically in the 
few days prior to the payments. But while I think its more likely than not Hs request was 
made in the few days prior, even if it wasnt quite as recent as that, I think Ms B ought to 
have understood the general context of the question was whether shed been asked by 
someone else to make a payment. Because of this, I dont think it was accurate for her to tell 
her banking provider it wasnt.Its unclear why Ms B wasnt honest with her banking provider. It possibly couldve been due 
to being coached by H and under his spell. But regardless of whether that was the case, 
even if Revolut had identified the payment as being related to crypto and questioned her 
accordingly, theres nothing to suggest Ms B wouldve answered similar questions differently. 
And so, I think its reasonable to conclude she wouldnt have disclosed to Revolut there was 
a third party involved or that she was making the payment for anything other than genuine 
crypto trading. Because of this, I dont think Revolut wouldve had enough reason to think 
Ms B was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
At which point, Id like to clarify that Im not saying all romance scams cannot be prevented  
as A has alluded to in response to our Investigators opinion. Instead, while EMIs like 
Revolut should try to identify situations where their customers are being targeted as part of a 
romance scam, Im not convinced Revolut couldve reasonably uncovered it here. 
It follows that, while I think Revolut ought to have done more before releasing the 
payment(s), I dont think their failure to do so led to Ms Bs loss. And so, for these reasons, I 
dont think they are required to refund Ms B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman