DRN-1645251
The complaint
Mr P complains that  Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) mis led him over the state 
of a car he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement. He would like to reject the car.
  
What happened
 Mr P says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 11 January 2019 for a two-year-old  
high-end car with 7,009 miles on the clock. He says when he collected the car, he noticed  
damage to the front bumper which he immediately raised with the dealership. He says he 
was assured this was a stone chip and, on agreeing this would be repaired, he took the car 
away.
Mr P says he made multiple calls and sent multiple emails before it was finally agreed the 
car could go back for repair in August 2019. And he says before bringing the car back for 
repair he also raised  a problem with rear boot glass not sitting flush with the roof.
Mr P says when the car went in for repair,  he discovered the problem wasnt a stone chip 
but rust. And the bubbling up caused by this has appeared on other areas of the car. He 
says the dealer told him that that make of car had suffered from rust due to a manufacturer 
supplier of body panels which must have affected the batch of cars the Mr Ps was amongst.
Mr P was also unhappy with the depreciation on the car.
Santander said Mr P was aware of the defects with the car at the point of sale but went 
ahead with the purchase. And he agreed to repairs being carried out. It said it had checked 
and the deprecation on the value of the car since Mr P had it was in line with what would be 
expected with his type of car.
It said Mr P was  offered the chance to sell the car back albeit, but he declined this as it 
would have left him worse off financially.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He found the rust was present at the point of sale 
making the car of unsatisfactory quality. He felt had Mr P been advised of this he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the purchase.
He recommended that Santander:-
Unwind the finance agreement with nothing further for Mr P to pay
Remove the credit search from Mr Ps credit file or show the agreement as settled
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P if this has not already happened
Refund the full deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Retain one months payment for each 1000 miles covered, any payments over and 
above this should be refunded to Mr P
Refund the cost of any associated insurance policies that have been added to the 
finance agreement
Pay Mr p £250 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr P accepted this view, but Santander didnt.  It provided further evidence in the form of a 
phone call  to show that Mr accepted the car knowing it had rust on the front bonnet.
Our investigator listened to this call several times but did not agree there was enough 
evidence to show he was advised the damage was rust and not a stone chip. His 
recommended redress remained as before.
Santander didnt accept this further view. It said that Mr P was aware of the rust problem 
before he went ahead with the purchase. It added that the car wasnt of unsatisfactory 
quality, Mr P had been kept mobile throughout and he had agreed to the car being repaired. 
And it didnt feel the rust on the bonnet had affected Mr Ps experience of the car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I dont think there is any dispute that Mr P had a problem with rust on his car. He has 
evidenced that to us in various photos and that was confirmed by an independent inspection 
carried out on the car. We have been unable to obtain a full copy of that report. But since 
neither side disputes the problem is of rust, I dont feel I need to go into that any further 
The main issue seems to be whether Mr P agreed to repairs  he has told us they went 
ahead without his authority, but Mr P has told us he didnt agree to the car being repaired. 
Looking at whether Mr P agreed to repairs I have seen various  emails between Mr P and 
the dealership  arranging for the car to go back for the bonnet work and for some other 
issues that had arisen.
I have also listened to a phone call Santander supplied in which Mr P is chasing up when he 
might get his car back. In this call it seems a service is being done but there is also 
reference to dealing with other issues including the bonnet.
From this I would conclude that Mr P did agree to repairs being carried out.
Santander says Mr P was aware of the problem when he bought the car and still went ahead 
with the purchase, I have seen nothing to confirm Mr P was told the problem was rust , and 
rust wasnt mentioned in the phone call I listened to .
Mr P says he was told when he got the car the issue on the front bonnet was from a stone 
chip .I have no evidence to confirm or deny that . Its always difficult when someone relies on 
a non-recorded conversation of events. 
However, I think most consumers would think a stone chip  was rectifiable particularly when, 
as in this case, the car is second hand. However, I think most consumers would equally be 
more concerned if they had been advised the problem was rust.
Given Mr P bought an expensive car that was only two years old I am not convinced he 
would have gone ahead with the purchase if he had known the problem was one of rust not 
a stone chip. So, in summary I think  Mr P knew there was a problem but not that it was rust. 
And if he did, as I think he did, agree to repairs he agreed to a stone chip repair not rust.I am not persuaded by Santanders argument that Mr P wants to end his contract due to the 
depreciation on the car. Its obvious this was a concern to Mr P. However, I think he has 
cause for concern with the rust issue. And as I dont believe he was made aware of this at 
the point of sale I think its reasonable to allow him to now  reject the car .
In terms of other redress, I appreciate Mr P has continued to make payments for the car 
even though he has only driven about 2,000 miles. 
I think it is fair for him to be refunded for payments made from and including October 2019 
as this is  after the rust was identified as the problem. From this point Mr P stopped using the 
car . And, had Santander allowed him to reject the car at this point ,Mr P wouldnt have 
incurred any further payments. This refund should include 8% simple interest which we 
usually apply unless there is a specific reason not to do so.
I also think its fair to partially refund any cost of insurance policies  linked to the car on proof 
these are still valid i.e. they  have not been cancelled or transferred to another vehicle. Any 
refund should be for the outstanding months from and including October 2019  until the end 
of the first year of any policies
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Santander Consumer f(UK) Plc should:-
Unwind the finance agreement with nothing further for Mr P to pay
Remove the credit search from Mr Ps credit file or show the agreement as settled
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P if this has not already happened
Refund the full deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund monthly payments made after and including October 2019 with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Partially refund the cost of any associated insurance policies linked to the car from 
and including October 2019 until the end of the first year of any such policies. Mr P 
will need to show these policies were still valid for the car in question during this time
Pay Mr P £250 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman