DRN-2910671
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Skipton Building Society wouldnt let her transfer her money 
when her ISA matured.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs Bs fixed-rate ISA matured. She tried to close it and transfer the funds 
to an account in her name  the same bank account Skipton had been paying her interest 
into. But Skipton said they couldnt verify the bank account. They asked for a statement, 
which Mrs B sent, but Skipton didnt accept it as it didnt have her address on it. They 
wouldnt accept the transfer even though it was to the same account theyd already been 
paying her interest to. The cooling-off period ended, and Skipton rolled her ISA over into a 
new fixed-rate account.
Mrs B complained. She explained that while normally she lived between the UK and New 
Zealand, because of the pandemic she was in New Zealand for the foreseeable future, so 
she couldnt go to a Skipton branch to sort this out. But Skipton said they were just following 
their security procedures, so they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They felt 
Skipton had prioritised process over people here. They proposed Skipton let Mrs B withdraw 
her money without penalty, plus any interest it had earned since August 2020, and that they 
pay her £75 compensation.
Skipton agreed, but Mrs B didnt think the proposal was fair. She said she wouldve 
transferred the money into New Zealand dollars, and the exchange rate had gone down 
since August 2020. And she said she wouldve put the money into an account with a higher 
interest rate. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Skipton and Mrs B a provisional decision on 16 June 2021, to explain what I thought 
would be best to do. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree with our investigator that Skipton didnt quite get 
things right here. I can see where Skipton were coming from, and of course I appreciate that 
they have to have robust security procedures.
But here, Mrs B was only trying to pay her money to her own account  the same account 
that Skipton had already been paying her interest to. She explained this to Skipton at the 
time, and also provided them with a statement showing the account was in her name. While 
I appreciate Skipton wouldve liked the statement to have had her address on it too, their 
own explanatory document said the statement only needed to have ones name and account 
details on it  not the address. And Mrs B explained to Skipton that because she banked 
with that business online, her statements didnt have her address on it.
Taking everything together, I think Skipton should have reasonably realised that Mrs B was 
only trying to withdraw her money to her own account. And if they were really that concerned 
about security, they could have always contacted Mrs Bs bank of their own accord and 
checked things with them before the cooling-off period ended. To echo our investigator, 
Skipton should always treat customers fairly and reasonably, and should try not to treat them 
unfairly just because a process tells them to. So while I acknowledge Skipton were only 
trying to keep things secure, I think they should have allowed Mrs B to withdraw her money 
back in August 2020.
In terms of how to put things right, I agree with our investigator that Skipton should pay 
Mrs B some compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused, and I think £75 
is fair. I also agree that Skipton should allow Mrs B to now withdraw her money from the ISA 
without a penalty as a one-off exception.
Mrs B brought up the issue of the difference in exchange rates, and I understand why she 
raised this. At the time she came to us, the exchange rates had gone down. However, at the 
time of this decision, theyve gone back up to a very similar rate to what they were in August 
2020, so I dont think this makes a huge difference. And more importantly, we cant be sure 
what Mrs B would have done with the money. Its too speculative for me to say that Mrs B 
would have got a specific account in New Zealand with a specific rate  unless for example, 
Mrs B can show us that she had already opened such an account in New Zealand back in 
August 2020 and that it was ready to receive the money from her Skipton ISA. Indeed, 
without such evidence I cant even really be sure whether Mrs B would have transferred the 
money to New Zealand or kept it in the UK  as I understand, for the last few years she kept 
it in the UK with Skipton.
So Ive thought about what else we could do in order to put things right for Mrs B. When a 
business has deprived a customer of the use of their money, we often tell them to add 
simple interest onto that money at the rate of 8% simple a year. This is the same rate that 
courts use in similar situations, and is sometimes known as statutory interest. Since Skipton 
deprived Mrs B of access to her funds unfairly, and since we dont know exactly what she 
would have done with that money, I think its reasonable to use this statutory rate. The 8% 
simple interest would replace the interest that may have accumulated in the account since 
August 2020, since if Skipton had allowed Mrs B to withdraw her money then she wouldve 
never got that interest. But given current rates, the 8% simple interest should more than 
cover any potential exchange rate or interest losses for Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides were happy with 
the provisional decision, though Mrs B wanted to clarify whether Skipton would now 
recognise the bank account shes been trying to withdraw her money into.
Skipton have confirmed that, as well as being willing to accept the decision, they have also 
started the process to set up Mrs Bs bank account so that its recognised for withdrawals. 
They say theyll give Mrs B confirmation of this in due course. I am grateful for Skiptons 
co-operation there.So with that accounted for, and with neither side raising any new evidence, arguments, or 
objections, I have reconsidered the case and come to the same outcome as before.
Putting things right
I direct Skipton Building Society to:
Allow Mrs B to withdraw the money in her ISA without penalty as a one-off, less any 
interest thats accumulated since the cooling-off period ended in August 2020
Add simple interest onto her withdrawn money at the rate of 8% simple a year*, 
calculated from the end of the cooling-off period in August 2020 to the date Skipton 
allows the one-off withdrawal; and
Pay Mrs B £75 compensation.
*Businesses are required by HMRC to take tax off this simple interest. Skipton should give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one. Mrs B can then claim back the 
tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Skipton Building Society to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman