DRN-1915940
The complaint
Mr A complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr A acquired a second-hand car costing £15,547 funded by a deposit of £300, 
a part exchange worth £2,900 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was one 
year old and had done 15,917 miles.
In early November Mr A noticed there was water coming into the car and contacted the 
dealer. He was advised to take the car to a local dealer and a leak was diagnosed coming 
from the windscreen. It was also noted that the windscreen had been replaced with a non-
genuine one and so wasnt covered by the warranty.
Mr A contacted NIIB, but it said the fault hadnt occurred within six months and the onus was 
on Mr A to demonstrate it had been present at the point of sale. An independent inspection 
was undertaken, and the inspector carried out a smoke test. He concluded here were a 
number of potential leaks around the door seals, but he thought the windscreen wasnt 
leaking, even though it wasnt the original. The inspector said Mr A had driven the car for 
14,652 miles and concluded the fault was unlikely to have been present at the point of sale
Mr A took the car to be repaired by an authorised dealer which carried out water tests and 
identified the leak to be from the windscreen, which I gather has now been repaired at Mr As 
expense. However, there is water damage which requires attention. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted the non-genuine part had voided 
the warranty. However, she said that the should be durable and fit for purpose. She thought 
it unusual for a seal to deteriorate on a car that was less than two years old. She suggested 
the car be repaired at NIIBs expense.
Mr A agreed, but NNIB said the independent inspector said that the leak would have been 
obvious after Mr A had driven the car for 1,000 to 3,000 miles if it had been present at the 
point of sale. It also said that it couldnt have covered some 14,000 miles and not be durable. 
It offered to cover 50% of the costs as a gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. NIIB is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I think it important to stand back from some of the detailed arguments in this matter covering 
the likely cause of the leak etc. and ask a simple question; is it reasonable for an 18-month-
old car to develop a leak? I think the answer must be no. I cannot say how the car can be 
said to have been durable when it leaked after 18 months. I dont think the mileage which 
has been relatively high has any significant bearing on this matter. I cannot see that the 
manufacturer would suggest that its car might leak after 18 months.
Mr A identified the problem with six months of the point of sale and contacted the dealer and 
I am satisfied that the onus is on the business to establish that the fault wasnt present when 
the car was sold. It has relied on the independent report. I can understand this. However, 
that report concluded there was no fault with the replacement windscreen, but the approved 
dealer came to a different conclusion and repaired the windscreen which has stopped the 
leak.
Although one cannot be absolutely certain, it does appear that the non-genuine windscreen 
was the problem. It is not disputed that this was fitted to the car prior to the sale and while 
the dealer may not have been aware of it I think it reasonable to conclude that at the point of 
sale the car carried a non-genuine part which failed within six months. 
Putting things right
While I am loathe to disagree with an independent report I think the evidence from the main 
dealer which repaired the car is more reliable on this occasion. As such I think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct N.I.I.B. Group Limited to refund to 
Mr A the cost of repairing of the windscreen, and to pay for any other repairs necessary to 
put the car right after the water ingress. This should only be on the production of an invoice 
for the work from a VAT registered repairer.  I consider it would be prudent for Mr A to 
discuss with the business what repairs were required before committing to any expenditure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman