DRN-3485418
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2016, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ms behalf under sections 75 
and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which Mr M could sell back to the national 
grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
The CMC also argued that the contractual relationship between P and Mr M was unfair 
because of the above misrepresentations, and also because Shawbrook may have paid P 
commission for brokering the loan.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the sales documentation was confusing, misleading, and too long and technical for a 
layperson to follow;
positive information about the system had been highlighted or put in a large font, 
while negative information was in small, unhighlighted print;
the text would generally have been too small to read on the screen of the salesmans 
computer; and
it was not likely that Mr M would have spent so much money if he had been told that 
it would take longer than ten years for him to see a return on his investment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr M says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr M, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. It has also told us that the quote would have been 
emailed to Mr M after the sales meeting, for him to consider in his own time.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting, and sent it to him afterwards. So, Ive taken this into 
account, along with Mr Ms version of events, when considering if there have been any 
untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr M has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ms recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The Impact of solar page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system in the first year, and the estimated savings 
on his electricity bills in the same period.
I think that the quote is clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one 
of £185.84, which results in an average monthly income of £15.49. Im satisfied that the 
same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £122.18. As a 
result, Im not able to conclude that Mr M was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the total income and savings Mr M could expect from the 
system. The combined income and savings in year one is shown as £411.55. This is shown 
in a table titled Your Savings Summary.
Theres a section headed Your Agreement with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £122.18. For each year of the ten year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £122.18, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think this table is clear, conspicuous, and in large print, and that the quote clearly sets out 
the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, by way of FIT payments and 
savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that 
the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and savings to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding above that Mr M wasnt told that the FIT 
payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr Ms 
version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, and that a copy was sent to him 
afterwards, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr M, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Your Savings Summary table states that the Estimated payback time (not including 
the finance charge) is 17 years.
Another page of the quote, titled What will you earn and save per year?, has a table 
detailing the estimated performance of the system over 20 years. This also shows that 
during year 17 the overall benefits that Mr M could expect to receive would reach the cash 
price of the system, £10,248. As can be seen, the 16 years of deficit are highlighted in red, 
and the years of profit in green. I think this is clear and accessible.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 17 years, as supported by the table above, which was included in the quote. If that 
were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter 
into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take longer than P estimated for the 
system to pay for itself. So to see why this may be, Ive gone on to consider the performance 
of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,899 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,620 kWh a year. This is significantly more (125%) than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing better than expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr M to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman