DRN-3229022
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Lycetts Financial Services Limited to 
transfer his pension from a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) to a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to the parties and generally not disputed, so I 
wont repeat everything in detail. 
In short, Mr E was advised in 2009 that he could no longer keep the SSAS as the sponsoring 
employer company had changed from a trading company to an investment company. He 
was advised to switch his pension into a SIPP. 
The assets in the SSAS were:
Two insured policies worth £95,021 and £61,690 respectively
A commercial property worth £330,000
£1,092,850 in cash
Mr E was in receipt of an ill-health pension within the SSAS and this was to continue within 
the SIPP.
Lycetts suitability report in September 2009 said the SIPP would provide Mr E with 
investment control, flexible death benefits, flexible income and less administration. 
The SIPP was set up in 2010, but various requirements needed to be met before the transfer 
could complete including a valuation of the commercial property. Mr E was informed that for 
the property to be transferred to the SIPP in specie, repairs were required which cost around 
£20,000. Mr E wasnt prepared to pay these costs and so the property was eventually sold in 
2012 and the transfer was completed- over three years after the advice to transfer. The 
insured policies were encashed in June 2010. So by the time the SSAS was switched to a 
SIPP it consisted essentially of cash. 
A scheme pension was set up for Mr E paying him £83,000 a year. A few years later, Mr E 
wanted to stop taking a pension income for a while. He had additional income from buy-to-let 
properties and was worried he would run out of pension funds. However, even though he 
had been told by Lycetts he could always alter his pension in future, it turned out this wasnt 
possible. Mr E later also asked to take a loan from the SIPP, like he had done previously 
from the SSAS. He again was told this wasnt possible in the SIPP.
Mr E complained in 2017 to Lycetts that the switch had been unnecessary and as a result he 
had lost the flexibility and control he had in the SSAS and he was worse off financially. He 
was unhappy with excessive charges and fees and he said he was told he had to sell the 
commercial property even though he thought it would have gone up in value. He also said he 
had lost out on investment growth as all his assets had been held in cash.
Lycetts rejected the complaint as they said there was no option for Mr E to remain in the 
SSAS. The complaint was referred to this service and a case reviewer at this service found 
that the advice to transfer had indeed been unsuitable.
In summary he said:
Lycetts did not provide any evidence to support their view that Mr E was not able to keep 
the SSAS and had to transfer elsewhere. They also didnt update their advice between 
2009 and 2012. Lycetts havent been able to demonstrate that the transfer was indeed 
necessary.
Without Lycetts advice Mr E likely would have stayed in the SSAS as it was meeting his 
objectives.
Mr E had a flexible unsecured pension in the SSAS and Lycetts advised him on a 
scheme pension in the SIPP which was less flexible. He also couldnt take out loans from 
the SIPP as he was able to in the SSAS. So Mr E had lost flexibility and control by 
transferring to a SIPP. He didnt think Mr E had necessarily lost out financially by not 
being able to take a pension break or not taking a loan from the SIPP, however, he did 
think the loss of these features did cause Mr E distress and inconvenience.
Mr E said Lycetts had told him to sell the property in the SSAS, however given that Mr E 
had property experience and hadnt been willing to spend £20,000 on repairs for an 
asset that was providing annual rental income of £52,000, he thought on balance the 
ultimate decision to sell the property was made by Mr E. He could have mitigated the 
loss of the property by paying for the repairs. Overall, he thought it wasnt fair to hold 
Lycetts responsible for the loss of Mr Es property.
He did see no reason why Mr E would have encashed his two insured policies if it wasnt 
for the transfer. 
It is true that everything was kept in cash once it had transferred into the SIPP. But the 
majority of funds had been in cash in the SSAS too. And it was evident from 
correspondence on file that Lycetts had urged Mr E on multiple occasions to invest his 
funds and not leave them in cash. Mr E was reluctant to invest into assets he wasnt 
familiar with and so he kept being invested predominantly in cash. He didnt think Lycetts 
could be held responsible for the lack of investment growth on Mr Es pension as it had 
been his decision to not reinvest the majority of his cash funds. 
Overall, he thought Lycetts should compensate Mr E for any additional charges and fees 
he incurred by transferring into a SIPP and pay him £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered when he wasnt able to take his pension flexibly or take out a 
loan from the SIPP. This caused a significant impact and might do going forward as well.
Mr E responded to say that the property needed a lot more work doing to it, probably around 
£250,000 and that they had a tenant who was comfortable with the property. So they 
wouldnt have sold it if it hadnt been for Lycetts advice to transfer.
The case reviewer still didnt uphold this part of Mr Es complaint. He said the tenants could 
have left at any point and a new tenant might have insisted on repair works. Even if the 
existing tenants had stayed, the SSAS administrators likely would have wanted a valuation 
for the property too at some point to ensure Mr Es pension was still supported by the assets. 
And its quite possible that similar repairs to those that would have been required for the 
SIPP would have been necessary for the SSAS. As Mr E obviously wasnt prepared to pay 
these costs, it was more likely than not Mr E would have sold the property even if he had 
remained in the SSAS.Mr E subsequently accepted the assessment. And so did Lycetts. They provided evidence 
that the charges and fees in the SIPP over the years had been cheaper than in the SSAS, so 
Mr E had been in fact better off in this regard by £16,706.24. So he didnt suffer any financial 
loss and they said they would only pay Mr E the £1,000 compensation for the loss of 
flexibility and control. 
Shortly after, the case reviewer received new information from Aviva who held information 
on Mr Es previous insured policies. This showed that both policies were encashed on 22 
June 2010. Mr E received £52,045.84 for one policy. If he had remained invested in it the 
value would have been £50,751.33 in March 2021.
The other policy was encashed for £105,071.18. The notional value in March 2021 would 
have been £354,639.15. This was made up of £35,853.43 in basic cash, revisionary bonus 
of £153,524.67 and a terminal bonus of £161,200.90. This policy also contained a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) of £1 for every £10.20 of pension. Based on this new 
evidence the case reviewer wrote to the parties again and asked Lycetts to pay additional 
compensation to Mr E to make up for the loss of the GAR.
Lycetts pointed to the case reviewers findings that Mr E had done nothing to mitigate his 
investment losses by leaving his funds predominantly in cash post-transfer. They calculated 
that if Mr E had followed their investment advice in the SIPP and had invested in a medium 
risk portfolio, he would have been significantly better off overall than if he had remained in 
the SSAS with his insured policies intact.
With respect to the GAR, they confirmed that Mr Es policy would have provided an annual 
income of £34,370.49 and provided a quote from the open market that the cheapest 
purchase price to buy this annuity now was £786,874.03. Their calculations showed that 
even taking this into account Mr E still would have been financially better off in the SIPP if he 
had invested the majority of his cash in line with their advice. So they still thought the only 
redress warranted was £1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
The case reviewer didnt agree with Lycetts offer. He reiterated that our aim is to put Mr E 
as much as possible into the position he would likely be in if he had been given suitable 
advice. He thought if Lycett hadnt advised him that he had to transfer to a SIPP he would 
have stayed in the SSAS and kept his insured policies.
He still thought Mr E would have sold the property eventually and a very large proportion of 
his funds in the SSAS were held in cash in any event. So there wouldnt have been much 
difference between the SSAS and the SIPP for a lot of Mr Es portfolio. 
What was left to consider was the policy with the GAR. Instead of an annuity of £34,370.49 
per year from 2018 which would cost £786,874 to purchase now, Mr E now has his 
encashment value of around £105,000 plus any potential interest he gained on this cash 
value between 2010 and 2021 which likely wouldnt have been a lot.
The case reviewer didnt think it was fair to simply compare this cash value with the large 
value Mr E could have had in his insured fund. This was because Mr E hadnt mitigated his 
losses and should have invested this sum. He agreed to accept Lycetts calculations that, if 
invested in line with a medium risk portfolio, Mr Es encashment sum of around £105,000 
would have been worth £354,914 in 2021. He also thought it was reasonable to offset the 
actual gains of £16,706.24 Mr E had made by incurring lower charges over the years in the 
SIPP.
Making these comparisons he calculated a loss of £526,955.03 plus £1,000 for the loss of 
flexibility and control.He didnt think offsetting potential gains on the whole portfolio as Lycett had suggested was 
fair. Mr E was entitled to stay invested in cash, just like he had in his SSAS. And if he had 
stayed invested in cash in his SSAS and kept his insured policies he would have been better 
off than he is now.
Lycetts didnt agree with these findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. They also asked for further evidence from Aviva on how they calculated the 
notional value for the GAR policy and asked this service to request any further information 
Aviva still held on communications between Mr E, Lycetts and the policy provider over the 
course of the transfer.
The complaint was referred to me for an ombudmans decision. I asked Aviva again to check 
their figures, given the bonuses applied to the GAR policy were so high, and to provide any 
information they still held on file about Mr E. They sent a further breakdown of the values 
and bonuses that were applied and confirmed again that they had checked their values and 
were satisfied they were correct. Unfortunately, they could not locate their files relating to the 
transfer. I passed on all information I received from Aviva and asked Lycetts for the final 
comments which they provided and I thank them for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything afresh, I agree that theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate 
that Mr E wasnt allowed to keep the SSAS and had to switch pension wrappers. I also think 
the SSAS met his objectives of being able to have commercial property, draw a flexible 
income and take out loans if he needed to. So I think without Lycetts insistence that he had 
to switch, Mr E likely would have remained in the SSAS. 
From what Ive seen Lycetts seems to have accepted that they gave incorrect advice and 
also that the loss of certain features caused Mr E distress and inconvenience. 
I also agree with the case reviewers findings that, on balance, Mr E likely would have had to 
pay for repairs on the commercial property in the SSAS and likely would have sold it in any 
event at some point. And that it was Mr Es choice to stay invested in cash once he 
transferred against Lycetts advice to consider alternative investments as his cash wasnt 
attracting much interest. 
Im also satisfied that on the evidence provided, Mr E paid lower charges in the SIPP and 
gained over £16,000 as a result which should be taken into account in any redress 
calculations. 
I want to note at this point that I dont think the overall lower charges in the SIPP made the 
advice to switch suitable. Lycetts intended to charge Mr E nearly £10,000 for the initial 
advice to switch. It now seems this was never paid, however this was the intention at the 
point of advice, so the gains would have been a lot less if these calculations had been done 
in 2009. And any lower ongoing charges wouldnt have been enough in my view to make up 
for less flexibility of income, the lost option to take out loans and the penalties and lost 
benefits of encashing the insured policies (Ill address the latter point in more detail later in 
this decision). In any event, the lower charges in the SIPP werent the reason to advise Mr E 
to switch pensions. The case reviewer provided detailed reasoning on the above points and both parties 
accepted these initial findings. I agree with the case reviewers assessment and so Im not 
going to revisit this in detail again.
The reason why this complaint is not yet resolved is because compensation that Lycetts was 
asked to pay went up from £1,000 to over £526,000 due to the newly discovered high value 
and GAR on one of Mr Es insured policies which he encashed prior to the transfer. Ill focus 
in my decision on this outstanding issue.
This services approach to compensation is to put Mr E as much as possible into the position 
he would be in now if he had been given suitable advice. As said above I think he would 
have stayed in the SSAS. The majority of his funds in the SSAS were invested in cash and 
stayed in cash once transferred, so I dont think he would have invested them any differently 
if he had stayed in the SSAS. And as discussed earlier, I think he likely would have sold his 
commercial property sooner or later, so again this would have just added to his cash funds in 
the SSAS (just like it did in the SIPP).
The question here is whether Mr E would have kept his insured policies if he had stayed in 
the SSAS or whether he would have encashed them anyway. 
Lycetts say they didnt advise Mr E to surrender his policies. Mr E made this decision on his 
own and it was not made in anticipation of the transfer. They provided a call note from 
October 2008 which showed Mr E rang Lycetts to ask what purpose the two policies in his 
portfolio served. Lycetts told him that the deposits in his account offered sufficient liquidity 
but the policies could be encashed where necessary. Lycetts then contacted the policy 
provider to ask :
Mr [E] has been asking for various assurances that his benefits from the plan are being 
maximised. Can you please confirm that he is receiving the maximum permissible income 
from the plan. He has also queried the role of the two Axa policies which are part of the plan. 
I assume that, if he required extra liquidity in the plan (for example to buy further property), 
that he could surrender them and add the proceeds to the scheme bank account.
I think its clear from the above that in 2008 Mr E was asking Lycetts for information about 
his policies to make sure that he got the maximum benefit out of his plan, however I cant 
see that he had made a decision to surrender his plans.
In November 2008, Lycetts wrote to Mr E and told him with regards to his insured policies:
You do not need to retain them - they could be encashed and their value added into the 
overall fund. That would, however, affect you in other ways. Some of the units in the plans 
are "accumulation" units and there would be a penalty if they were encashed prior to normal
retirement date. In addition, if both policies were surrendered the Special Trustee Fee would
be increased to £1920 per annum - from our files the last one I can see was for £752.
If you would like to discuss the plan further can I suggest that you speak to Nick who can
offer you specific advice rather than the general information that I can give.
Lycetts say Mr E never took up their offer on specific advice on these policies.
A file note from Lycetts dated 15 April 2010 showed a list of information which was still 
required for the transfer to go ahead. It listed Discharge form re Insured policies - signatures. 
These will be encashed and paid to SSAS bank account for transfer.A letter from Lycetts to the SIPP provider on 17 June 2010 which provided a list of 
documents including the scheme application to set up the SIPP and transfer the benefits 
from the SSAS into it. One of the documents listed was the Signed Surrender Request form 
to allow the insured policies within the [SSAS] to be surrendered and transferred.
Based on these documents Im satisfied that whilst Mr E might have asked questions about 
his policies in 2008, he only surrendered them in June 2010 when the SIPP was set up and 
the transfer process was initiated. So in my view the encashment of the policies very much 
happened in anticipation of the transfer. Lycetts says if Mr E had a desire to retain the 
policies, he would have kept them until the actual transfer happened in 2012 like he did with 
the property. However, in 2010, when the forms were completed I dont think it was 
foreseeable that the issues with the property would take so long and the transfer would be 
delayed that much. So I think when the SIPP application was completed and the policies 
were surrendered Mr E and Lycetts were envisaging a fairly prompt transfer. So I dont think 
this supports Lycetts argument.
I dont know what exactly Lycetts and Mr E discussed with regards to the insured policies in 
2010. But given that based on the file note and letter to the SIPP provider Lycetts was very 
much aware that Mr E was encashing his insured policies and arranged the necessary 
paperwork, they needed to assess whether this was in his best interest.
Lycetts was advising Mr E to switch his pension and as part of their suitability assessment 
they needed to consider his underlying investments in the SSAS and how a switch would 
affect them. I cant see that an in-specie transfer for these policies was ever considered. This 
also might not have been possible. 
In any event, Lycetts knew Mr E was about to surrender his insured policies in preparation 
for the transfer. So they should have considered whether this surrender was in his best 
interest. He had sufficiently liquid funds, so didnt really have the need for more cash and the 
provider had already confirmed to Lycetts that an early encashment penalty would apply. 
Ive seen a letter the policy provider sent Lycetts on 3 December 2008 in response to their 
request for information on one of the policies (the one without a GAR). They sent Lycetts a 
current fund value and a transfer value for one of the policies. They explained that the 
difference between those values was the current penalty. This was nearly £10,000 (£61,696 
current value vs £51,814 transfer value). I cant see that any of this was discussed or 
considered. Lycetts told Mr E in 2008 there was a penalty but it wasnt explained how much 
that would be.
I havent seen evidence that Lycetts requested more detailed info on the GAR policy (like 
they did on the other one). The provider had told them there was no early surrender penalty 
on the other policy (which I assume referred to Mr Es GAR policy) and I appreciate they 
didnt mention the GAR in this letter. However in order to make sure what Mr E was giving 
up by surrendering his policies Lycetts needed to have a good understanding of what his 
policies entailed, including any potential safeguarded benefits. I cant see this was properly 
explored or that the policy provider was specifically asked about this.
Overall, I dont think Mr E was set on encashing his policies and only did so in order to 
transfer. As part of their advice to switch pensions and arranging the surrender of the 
policies as well as the transfer, Lycetts needed to make sure this was in his best interest. 
Even taking the GAR aside, I think the heavy encashment penalty on the other policy was 
reason enough not to encash, particularly as other than a transfer (which I established 
already was unsuitable and unnecessary) there was no evident reason for Mr E to surrender 
these policies.So Lycetts should have recommended Mr E not to surrender his policies. And I see no 
reason why he wouldnt have listened to Lycetts advice in this respect. I think the bigger 
problem might have been that an in-specie transfer of the policies might not have been 
possible. So in order to switch pensions the encashment might have been the only viable 
option. However, all of this could have been avoided if Mr E had been suitably advised to 
simply stay in the SSAS. 
I dont think Mr E would have encashed his policies if he had remained in the SSAS. Like I 
said, I dont think he was set on surrendering them. Lycetts had already told him in 2008 the 
Special Trustee fee in the SSAS would go up from £752 to over £1900 a year if he 
surrendered the policies and he would face penalties. And whilst he might have been 
generally interested in buying more commercial property at some point, he had over £1m in 
cash in his SSAS, so there was no imminent need to surrender these policies for more. Like 
I said, he only did so when the transfer process was initiated, nearly two years after he and 
Lycetts had discussed the policies.
In summary, Im satisfied if Lycetts had given Mr E suitable advice he would have stayed in 
the SSAS and more likely than not would have kept his insured policies. So Lycett is 
responsible for any losses he suffered as a result of their unsuitable advice to switch.
I then considered the redress proposed by the investigator and again I think this is fair. If Mr 
E had stayed in the SSAS, he would have likely had a large sum of cash and two insured 
policies. One of the policies would have been worth less in 2021 than when he sold it in 
2010. So he hasnt lost out here. However, he lost out on a valuable guaranteed annuity rate 
and large bonuses on the other policy. 
I agree with Lycetts that Mr E didnt mitigate his investment losses by staying invested in 
cash. For this reason the case reviewer didnt simply compare the value of the GAR policy  
with the cash amount Mr E got for this policy and which he then didnt re-invest. The 
comparison is made with what the surrender value of around £105,000 would be worth now 
if it had been invested following Lycetts advice. The case reviewer accepted Lycetts 
assumptions here which said the £105,000 would have been worth £354,914 now if Mr E 
had invested it. This assumes an average return of over 11% per year for the past 11 years 
which is I believe is generous. 
So I vehemently disagree with Lycetts that they are asked to compensate Mr E for the entire 
loss of investment growth for this policy. The fact Mr E didnt mitigate his losses by re-
investing the policy value he received in 2010 is absolutely factored in.
Lycetts proposal to compare the value of the GAR policy with the notional value of Mr Es 
entire SIPP had he re-invested the majority of his cash is flawed. They are comparing only a 
part of Mr Es portfolio in the SSAS (the GAR policy) with the whole portfolio of the SIPP had 
the majority of Mr Es cash been re-invested. I appreciate Mr E would be better off financially 
now if he had invested his SIPP portfolio other than leave most of it in cash. However, this is 
not the test here. The test is what position Mr E would be in now if had remained in the 
SSAS. And the only main difference here is that he would have had a policy which contained 
a GAR instead of an increased cash lump sum. And this is the loss which is considered in 
this decision.
Having reviewed all the evidence and comments independently I believe the redress 
methodology proposed by the case reviewer is fair and takes into account that Mr E should 
have invested the value of the GAR policy to mitigate some of his losses. It also offsets any 
gains Mr E made by the overall lower charges in the SIPP.putting things right
I appreciate the values which Lycetts provided and which the case reviewer used in his 
redress are now several months old. However, in order to not delay this complaint further 
and give certainty about the redress amount to both parties, Ill use the same value for the 
annuity (I dont think it likely would have changed a lot anyway) and bring the notional value 
Lycetts calculated for the encashment value of the GAR policy up to date with reasonable 
assumptions. 
I view Mr Es losses as follows:
Lost benefits from GAR policy in SSAS: 
Past losses: GAR annuity paid for 45 months from March 2018 until December 2021: 
(£34,370.49/12) x 45 = £128,889.33
     
Future losses: Cost of setting up annuity of £34,730.49 p.a. which was quoted as 
£786,874.03
Total: £915,763.36
Notional value of the GAR policy if the surrender value in 2010 would have been 
invested in a medium risk portfolio (as calculated by Lycetts in May 2021): £354,914. 
Given their assumptions of average growth of around 11% per year, I think adding 
6% of the value to update it from May until December 2021 is reasonable. 
(£354,914 x 6%) plus £354,914= £376,208
Mr Es gains due to cheaper charges in the SIPP (as calculated by Lycetts): 
£16,706.24
Distress and inconvenience payment: £1,000
Total losses  
(£915,763.36- £376,208 - £16,706.24) plus £1,000 = £523,849.12
The compensation amount must be paid to Mr E within 21 days of the date Lycetts receives 
notification of Mr Es acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 21 days, that it takes Lycetts to pay Mr E.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lycetts Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr E £150,000 plus any interest as set out above on this amount if 
the redress is paid to Mr E more than 21 days after the decision is accepted by him.
Recommendation:, I also recommend that Lycetts Financial Services Limited pays Mr E the 
balance of £373,879.12. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated on this 
balance, as set out above if redress is paid late, to be paid to Mr E.This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Lycetts Financial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr E can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman