DRN-3753844
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mrs O acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
VWFS. Mrs O paid a deposit of around £644 and was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £916 with a final optional payment of around £33,036 if she wanted to 
own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was 
around £77,649.
Mrs O says that the agreement was meant to be set up in both her and her partners name 
and the deal was done in her partners name at the time. But when she received the 
documents it was only in her name and other details were incorrect. She tried to get the 
agreement changed to her partners limited company, but it wasnt allowed. Mrs O says that 
checks would have shown the agreement was never affordable for just her. 
VWFS said that Mrs O signed the pre-contract checklist and the agreement which set out the 
financial details of the agreement. It said Mrs O provided details of her employment and it 
carried out a credit check that didnt raise concerns. However it noted the situation Mrs O 
was in and while it didnt uphold her complaint it said Miss O could voluntarily terminate her 
agreement with zero cost (meaning the shortfall and arrears wouldnt fall due) but Mrs O 
would be liable for any excess mileage and refurbishment costs. Mrs O didnt accept VWFS 
offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought VWFS ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mrs O. 
VWFS accepted our adjudicators view but Mrs O didnt respond. Therefore this case has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before lending, VWFS carried out a credit check on Mrs O and I agree this didnt raise 
concerns. It says it carried out an affordability check and has provided evidence that Mrs O 
was recorded as being in employment as a nurse and being a homeowner. However, there 
is no evidence that VWFS asked Mrs O about her income prior to lending. Without any 
understanding of what Mrs O was earning, I dont think it was possible for VWFS to make a 
fair assessment of her ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. It therefore 
didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Given the total amount of credit, the agreement term and the size of the monthly 
repayments, I think it would have been proportionate for VWFS to have verified Mrs Os 
income in some way. Mrs O has provided a document showing her annual income from April 
2020 would be £4,960. I have looked at her bank statements for the months leading up to 
the agreement and these show her average monthly income to be around £1,100. As the 
monthly repayments under the agreement were around £916, this shows that Mrs O couldnt 
afford to sustainably repay the new agreement as well as her existing commitments. I think 
VWFS would likely have found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks, it 
therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance. 
Putting things right
As I dont think VWFS ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mrs O has made, including any deposit. However, Mrs O has had use of the car 
for around 27 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of around £916 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mrs Os likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mrs O should pay is £750 
for each month she has had use of the car. This means VWFS can only ask her to repay a 
total of £20,250. Anything Mrs O has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mrs Os complaint VWFS should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mrs O has made, less £20,250 for fair usage. 
oIf Mrs O has paid more than the fair usage figure, VWFS should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mrs O has paid less than the fair usage figure, VWFS should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once VWFS has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Os credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs O asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as 
Audi Financial Services to put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman