DRN-3553475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSAs) 
decision to decline the claim they made for subsidence damage to their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have made multiple claims for subsidence damage to their property  in 2014, 
2018 and again in 2021.
The 2014 and 2018 claims were declined by RSA on the basis that the damage was deemed 
to be as a result of lateral restraint issues to the right-hand flank wall, rather than 
subsidence. Despite remaining of the view that lateral restraint issues were the cause of 
damage, RSA agreed to carry out level monitoring  at the point of the 2021 claim  to 
support its previous conclusions.
Mr and Mrs J brought a complaint to our service about the adequacy of RSAs previous 
investigations and its proposed investigations following the 2021 claim. But our investigator 
determined that Mr and Mrs Js complaint about this was brought too late, under the rules we 
must apply. So, Mr and Mrs J were advised we didnt have the power to consider that 
complaint.
During the period of monitoring a drainage report was completed, and some repairs were 
undertaken, to the below ground drainage beneath Mr and Mrs Js driveway. 
Following completion of the monitoring, RSA maintained its decision to decline 
Mr and Mrs Js claim. It said the monitoring results showed the property was stable, both 
before and after the drainage repairs. It also said the drainage report didnt mention any 
cracking or displaced joints which could have resulted in leakage or caused subsidence of 
the property. RSA maintain that the cause of damage to Mr and Mrs Js property is lateral 
restraint issues to the right-hand flank wall, likely as a result of roof thrust/spread.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. She said the decision reached by RSA, based on the monitoring results and 
consideration of the drainage report, was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint about RSAs claim decision 
following conclusion of the drainage works and monitoring  which were responded to in its 
final response letter of April 2022. I am not revisiting previous complaint points  particularly 
those which have already been determined as being outside of our services jurisdiction.
Having carefully considered the available evidence and arguments, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
RSA has had five separate subsidence consultants review the evidence in this case and all 
consider the damage to be consistent with lateral restraint issues as opposed to subsidence. 
For example, the 2015 site visit report stated:
Conclusions 
1. I explained that site investigations and monitoring are tools utilised to assess a 
given problem which require further clarification  in this instance the problem is 
clearly attributed to outward / inadequate lateral restraint of the flank elevation.
 
2. In this particular case, the problem has clearly been ongoing for some 
considerable time, given the degree of distortion suffered to the property. The 
issue is compounded in my opinion, by the inherent design of the property which 
has little in the way of lateral support, by virtue of the staircase positioning and 
lack of supporting partitions enclosing upon the flank elevation. 
3. We made an inspection of other properties in the area and noted similar 
distortions to the flank elevations. As such, this is deemed a common design 
defect with this particular style of property. 
As such, my opinion is that the original diagnosis is correct  inadequate lateral 
restraint. There was no evidence of any damage consistent with foundation 
movement or any other insured peril.
RSA has considered the drainage report obtained by Mr and Mrs J in 2021. It has 
highlighted there was no evidence within the report of any defects with the drains which 
would result in water leakage into the soil, which could in theory have led to subsidence 
movement.
Ive considered the photos Mr and Mrs J have provided, which do seem to show some water 
in the excavated drainage trench. But if this water were as a result of a crack, hole or 
defective connection I would expect the drainage report to refer to this  which it didnt. So, 
in the absence of the drainage report commenting on leakage from the drains, the photos in 
isolation dont persuade me that the drains have caused subsidence of the ground beneath 
the property or led to the damage reported.
RSA carried out level monitoring between April and October 2021. This demonstrated no 
downward movement of the property (subsidence). Instead it showed the property 
foundations were stable, both before and after the drainage repairs were carried out, which 
further supports that any issues with the drains have not caused subsidence movement or 
damage.
Mr and Mrs J have pointed out that they were advised by the loss adjuster, during the 
monitoring, that some downward movement had been noted. However, RSA has clarified 
that the person who communicated this message wasnt qualified to make a determination of 
the monitoring results and so wouldnt have been aware that the tiny apparent movement 
was well within the error tolerance allowed for. The monitoring results have been considered 
by somebody qualified, and their conclusions are that they indicate no foundation movement 
and therefore no active or recent subsidence movement.As explained, I need to decide whether RSAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Js claim in 
2021, based on the drainage report and monitoring results, is in line with the policy terms 
and is fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs Js policy provides cover for damage caused by 
subsidence, landslip or heave. But it doesnt provide cover for lateral restraint issues, or 
other construction related defects.
Ive seen no evidence to support that the damage in this case has been caused by 
subsidence. The evidence shows the property is stable, and that it was stable prior to the 
2021 drainage works.
Taking everything into account, on the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded the damage in 
this case is more likely a result of lateral restraint issues than subsidence. So, as the policy 
doesnt cover these issues, I think RSAs decision to decline the claim is in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy  and that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman