DRN-2259060
The complaint
Mr P complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt handle a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy properly in terms of liability for an accident and repairs. 
What happened
In January 2019 the door of Mr Ps car was badly damaged in an accident. He said a van 
had caused the damage when it drove past at speed just as he opened it to get out. He said 
hed checked his mirrors first, and there was no sign of the van at that point. esure said the 
van was proceeding correctly and there was no evidence that the driver was speeding. It 
also said that in any event, Mr P had opened his door into its path. 
Mr P was also unhappy about part of the repairs to his car, which were done by esures 
approved repairer, garage A. The trim for the door had to be ordered, so garage A did the 
other repair work and gave the car back to Mr P without it. It was several months before the 
ordered item arrived - but when it did (in July 2019) garage A didnt inform Mr P (or esure). 
Meanwhile, in March 2019 esure had told Mr P that the garage would offer him a refund if he 
didnt want to wait for the part to arrive. Mr P got an estimate for the part and its fitting from a 
local garage in October 2019. But at that point, esure found that the new part had arrived. It 
seems Mr P didnt want garage A to do the work, but esure found the local garages estimate 
to be excessive. In the end, garage A did the work and esure paid Mr P £100 compensation. 
In December 2019 Mr P told esure that there were issues with his windscreen wipers and 
rear sensors. He said they were due to the accident. esure said there was no evidence 
linking them to it. But it said if Mr P could get a report from the vehicles manufacturer linking 
the two, it would reconsider. It seems Mr P didnt do so, but he then complained to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He thought esure had acted reasonably. 
He said there was no evidence that the third party was speeding. Mr P suggested that the 
other driver should be forced to take a lie detector test, but the investigator didnt think that 
would have helped. He didnt agree that the other insurer had accepted liability by initially 
providing Mr P with a hire car. And he didnt think the issues that Mr P had reported in 
December 2019 (11 months after the accident) could be linked to it.  Mr P asked for a review 
of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, esure has the right to deal with any claim as it sees fit. We only interfere 
with an insurers decision if we think it has acted unreasonably. In this case, esure had to 
consider that Mr P had opened his door into the path of an oncoming vehicle. He said he 
checked his mirror first, but he cant prove that he did. Whats beyond doubt is that the van 
was approaching as he opened the door. Mr P cant show that the other driver was 
speeding, either. And even if he was, Mr P still put his door into the vans path. The other 
insurer didnt accept liability (despite initially providing Mr P with a hire car).I dont think it 
was surprising it took that stance when it had considered the situation fully. 
 
I think it was reasonable for esure to conclude that it wouldnt be able to argue Mr Ps case 
in court successfully. Mr P suggested that the extent of the damage to the door showed that 
the van was speeding. I can see why esure wouldnt have wanted to rely on that argument. I 
think the extent of the damage could have been due to many other factors, such as how 
close the van was to Mr Ps car when the door was opened into its path. That would have 
determined whether the driver had time to brake, thereby lessening the impact, or not.  
If Mr P asked esure to arrange a lie detector test for the other driver, I can see why esure 
didnt agree to it. esure couldnt force anyone to take such a test, even if it thought it was 
appropriate. And theres considerable doubt about the reliability of the tests, even if they 
could be used in court. esure had the right to decide how to conduct the claims investigation 
and to decide what was appropriate anyway. I dont think Mr P can show it acted 
unreasonably in relation to the way it decided on liability for the accident.
In terms of the repairs, I think garage A provided poor service in not contacting Mr P as soon 
as the ordered part arrived and then booking in the job as soon as possible. I can see why 
Mr P would have been annoyed by that. But as his car was driveable, and the missing part 
was cosmetic, I think the effect of the garages error had less impact on him than it would 
have done otherwise. Ive also taken into account that esure encouraged Mr P to get an 
estimate from elsewhere in March 2019. It contacted the local garage when he eventually 
did so, to see if a fair price for the job could be agreed, but unfortunately, that wasnt 
possible. Taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for esure to offer Mr P 
£100 compensation for inconvenience. 
Its hard to see how the repair issues Mr P raised in December 2019 were connected to the 
accident, which only involved an impact with a door. And it isnt clear why Mr P didnt report 
them for so long. I think it was reasonable for esure to conclude that the damage wasnt 
accident-related. And it gave Mr P the chance to provide evidence to the contrary, but it 
seems he didnt do that. 
I understand why Mr P was unhappy with esures decision on liability and with the delayed 
repairs. But as I dont think esure acted unreasonably in relation to either of these issues (or 
in relation to the damage reported later on) I wont be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
4 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman