DRN-1921347
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold a Select Plus Added Value Account (SPAVA) in 
2006, and a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in 2011 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs R complains that Lloyds told her she had to have a SPAVA to get an overdraft and a 
GAVA to increase her overdraft in September 2006 and August 2011 respectively. She says 
both accounts were unsuitable for her.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. Mrs R disagrees so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to re-assure Mrs R that Im aware she had a serious injury prior to either of the 
sales, and Ive taken this into account in my decision.
For each of the sales Ill look at whether Mrs R knew she had a choice whether to take out 
the account and if she chose to do so. Then, as both parties agree that these were advised 
sales, or in other words that Lloyds recommended the accounts to Mrs R, Ill look at whether 
the accounts were suitable for Mrs R and whether she was given enough information to 
make an informed decision about them.
the sale of the SPAVA
Mrs R has agreed that she had a fee free bank account before taking out the SPAVA. So, 
she knew she didnt have to pay a fee for an account.
Mrs R says that she was told she had to take out the SPAVA to get an overdraft, and I can 
see that she was given an overdraft of £50 when the account opened. 
However, a banks decision to give an overdraft is based on a customers credit rating and I 
can see from Lloyds notes at the time that this was part of its consideration. 
Also fee free bank accounts with overdrafts were available from other banks and financial 
institutions and were widely advertised at the time; and Mrs R had had bank accounts 
elsewhere, so I think its more likely than not shed have been aware of them. 
The SPAVA did provide a £50 interest free overdraft, so I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs Rs memory is mistaken, and she was told she had to have the SPAVA to get an interest 
free overdraft of £50 rather than an overdraft at all. 
So, I think Mrs R knew she had a choice and chose to take the SPAVA out.
The SPAVA benefits included the £50 interest free overdraft Ive mentioned above, plus the 
following: lower interest rates for overdrafts over £50, AA car breakdown service, mobile 
phone insurance, and Sentinel card protection.
Mrs R benefitted from the better overdraft facilities and registered for the mobile phone 
insurance. So, in my view I think its more likely than not that the SPAVA was suitable for 
Mrs R and she was given enough information about it.
the sale of the GAVA
Mrs R says she was told she had to take out the GAVA to increase her overdraft. But shed 
already had an allowed overdraft of over £1500 before taking out the GAVA and the allowed 
overdraft didnt increase significantly once she had the GAVA. So, I think its more likely than 
not she didnt take out the GAVA to increase her allowed overdraft.
When Mrs R took out the GAVA in 2011, shed had previous experience of both fee-free and 
fee-paying accounts, so I think she knew she had a choice whether to take the GAVA or not.
The GAVA benefits included worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, Sentinel Card protection and cheaper overdraft facilities.
Following the sale Mrs R benefitted from the cheaper overdraft facilities, registered phones 
for the mobile phone insurance and enquired twice about the travel insurance including 
about covering her medical condition. If she was unhappy, she couldve closed or 
downgraded the account at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that the GAVA was suitable for Mrs R and she knew 
enough about it to make an informed choice.
For completeness I note that Mrs R says that she had car breakdown cover through a 
mobility scheme, and I accept that she did. However, the AA car breakdown service covered 
her whether she was the owner or driver of a vehicle or not, so still provided a benefit when 
she was not in her own vehicle.
So, overall, I dont Lloyds did anything wrong in selling the SPAVA and the GAVA to Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman