The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly lent him two 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr T successfully applied for two loans with NatWest  one in 2017 and one in 2018. 
Towards the end of 2018 Mr T was struggling to meet payments to the loans. 
In 2019 Mr T made a complaint to NatWest. He said it had been irresponsible in lending him 
the two loans when he was in financial difficulty and a spiral of debt. He said it would have 
been clear to NatWest that he was struggling as he had gone over his arranged overdraft on 
his current account with it before applying for the first loan. He also said the interest and fees 
charged for exceeding his overdraft were excessive and unfair.
NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had carried out due diligence when checking 
his application. It said although he had exceeded his overdraft limit on his current account on 
a few occasions this had been by no more than £15 and had been quickly rectified. So it 
didnt think this indicated financial difficulty. Further it said it had carried out a credit check 
and this satisfied its affordability criteria.
Mr T didnt think this was fair as he said he had a lot of credit with other lenders when he 
applied for both loans, so this should have been enough for NatWest to realise they were 
unaffordable. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that she had reviewed the information considered by NatWest as part of the 
applications and thought it had acted fairly by agreeing the lending.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest is required to lend responsibly. So it needed to check that Mr T could afford to 
repay his loans sustainably each time. There was no set list of checks NatWest needed to 
do, but the checks should have been proportionate to the circumstances of each loan, which 
might include considerations about the amount borrowed, Mr Ts borrowing history and so 
on.
DRN-1619831NatWest has provided copies of the information it reviewed as part of both loan applications. 
This includes an income and expenditure report, credit check and bank statements. I have 
considered this in order to decide if NatWest did everything should have when assessing 
Mr Ts loan applications..
When Mr T applied for his first loan he told NatWest his income was £1997 and he told it his 
total outgoings were £566 when the loan repayments were included. This left him with a 
declared disposable income of £182 after the loan repayments were made. So with this 
information alone, it looked like the loan was affordable for him.
Ive also looked at the results of Mr Ts credit check that NatWest carried out. Mr T says that 
when he applied for the first loan in 2017 he was already in substantial debt which was 
unsustainable. I can see from his credit file that he did have borrowing with a number of 
other lenders. However at this time Mr T was keeping up with payments on all these credit 
accounts. And there were no registered defaults or arrears in the months preceding the 
application. As such, the credit check results dont show anything which would have 
prompted NatWest to question Mr T further about the information he provided to it. So I think 
NatWest did enough checks to conclude the loan was affordable to Mr T.
Mr T has outlined his regular income and expenditure and provided bank statements to 
support his complaint. I can see that he was able to meet the payments to all his credit, 
essential expenditure and the loan he was applying for and have money left over.
Further, when Mr T applied for the second loan in 2018, he had received a small pay 
increase and had been keeping up with payments to the previous loan. And there was no 
additional adverse information on his credit file. As NatWest carried out the same checks on 
this application, I think it made a proportionate assessment that Mr T could afford additional 
borrowing.
Mr T has said that he had been over his arranged overdraft on his current account with 
NatWest a number of times before applying for both loans. However NatWest said it allows 
some leniency with this and as it was only by less than £15 on each occasion and was 
rectified quickly, it didnt think this indicated more severe financial difficulty. So I am satisfied 
NatWest took this into account when assessing Mr Ts loan applications.
Towards the end of 2018 Mr T did start to struggle to meet payments and has subsequently 
fallen into financial difficulty. I empathise with his situation however when considering this 
complaint, I can only consider the information that was available to NatWest at the time it 
agreed the borrowing. And from the evidence Ive seen Mr T had sufficient income to cover 
all his essential spending and payments to existing debt and the new borrowing. So for these 
reasons I think NatWest lent responsibly to Mr T. 
Mr T has also said he is unhappy with the amount he has been charged for exceeding his 
overdraft. After reviewing these charges, I dont think they are excessive and are in line with 
FCA guidance. Further the charges are laid out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
So I cant say NatWest has acted unfairly by imposing these charges and fees.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman