Page 1 of 3The complaint
Ms C says NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account NewDay provided. The account was opened in 
November 2015. Ms C was given an initial credit limit of £450. This limit was increased three 
times until it eventually reached £2,150 in August 2018.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Cs complaint and thought that NewDay ought to have 
realised Ms C simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the time it 
offered the increase to her credit limit of £1,550 in August 2016. NewDay disagreed with our 
adjudicator, so the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-3525146Page 2 of 3 the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even co me a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrate s that the lending wa s unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the account were not 
examples of irresponsible lendi ng. Both parties have seen that assessment and Ms C has 
not raised any objection to those findings. I have reviewed the case in its e ntirety and have 
reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I haven t seen 
anything to ma ke me think NewDay should have been concerned about Ms Cs ability to 
afford the limits given before the increase in August 2016. In the absence of any argument 
about that I will turn to the increase of August 2016. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail wh y he thought NewDa y shouldnt have p rovided Ms 
C with any further cred it from August 2016 onwards. Our adjudicator noted that the credit 
check NewDay completed showed Ms C had a significant amount of credit commitments at 
that time - Ms C owed around £6,788 to other creditors. Sustainable monthly repayments 
towards these debts took up a significant proportion of Ms Cs income. And I have noted 
that in the eight months before the lending decision in August 2016, Ms C had incurred late, 
cash or overlimit fees in five of those eight months. And in three of those months, Ms C had 
incurred more than one fee in that particular month. 
And Ive noted that Ms C raced to her credit limit for each of the two previous credit limits. 
And Ms C seemed to have made little or no headway in reducing those balances.
So, the overall pattern of NewDays lending history with Ms C sugg ests this alone may have 
shown a cause for concern that Ms C could not afford to repay what she wa s being lent in a 
sustainable manner. And I think this information alone should have been sufficient to alert 
NewDay th at there was a point at which they should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful such that they shouldnt have increased Ms 
Cs credit limits. 
I also think there was a significant risk that further increase s to her cred it limits could 
have led to h er indebtedn ess increasing unsustainably, such tha t she had no funds 
available to meet her regular outgoings. 
It follows that I thi nk that Ms C lost out because NewDay provided her with further credit 
from 29 4 August 2016 o
nwards. In my view, NewDays actions unfairly prolonged Ms Cs 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the inte rest being added would onl y have the effect of putting h er into further debt. 
It follows that NewDa y should put things right.
Putting things right
Please note th at Ms C s IVA Practitione r has confirmed the full amou nt of any redress 
should go to the IVA. NewDay should:
 Rework Ms Cs account to ensure that from 4 August 2016 onwards interest is
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £650, including any buyPage 3 of 3now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
 If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments
have been made NewDay should contact Ms C to arrange an affordable
repayment plan for this account. Once Ms C has repaid the outstanding balance, it
should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file from 4
August 2016 onwards for each account.
OR
 If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments
and returned to Ms Cs IVA Practitioner, along with 8% simple interest per year on
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Ms Cs
credit file from 4 August 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Cs complaint. NewDay & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman