DRN-3386361
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her several packaged 
bank accounts (PBAs) over several years. Lloyds charged Ms M monthly fees for these 
accounts and provided several potential benefits in return. Ms M thinks Lloyds should 
refund her the fees she paid and add interest.
What happened
Ms M has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. She has held two separate accounts 
under two different account numbers, both of which have been PBAs and fee-free at 
different times. 
Lloyds has sent us details of Ms Ms account history from its records. These details are not 
in dispute. So, I have taken them to be correct. I have summarised them in the two following 
tables. 
Account one
Name of 
accountFee free 
or PBA ?Dates held Method of sale 
or changeComments 
Gold PBA 3 Jan 2001 to 
20 June 2006Meeting in a 
branch
Platinum PBA 20 June 2006 
to 3 July 2007Over the 
telephone 
Classic Fee free 3 July 2007 to 
20 July 2015Meeting in a 
branch Account closed on 20 
July 2015.
Account two
Name of 
accountFee free 
or PBA ?Dates held Method of sale 
or changeComments 
Classic Fee free 8 March 2001 
to 22 June 
2007Meeting in a 
branchThis was initially a joint 
account. Ms M 
converted it into her 
sole name during early 
2002.
Platinum PBA 22 June 2007 
to 20 Feb 
2008Meeting in a 
branch
Premier PBA 20 Feb 2008 
to 28 March 
2008 Meeting in a 
branchLloyds has told us that 
it did not charge Ms M 
any additional fees 
during this period.
PlatinumPBA 28 March 
2008 to 8 May 
2009Meeting in a 
branch
Classic Fee free 8 May 2009 to 
19 Feb 2010Meeting in a 
branch
Platinum PBA 19 Feb 2010 
to 25 October 
2010Meeting in a 
branchLloyds has accepted it 
mis-sold this account to 
Ms M. It has paid her 
compensation. 
Classic Fee free 25 October 
2010 to at 
least 30 July 
2021This account may have 
been closed after July 
2021.
The benefits which came with the packaged accounts varied from time-to-time. Some were 
related to banking, such as lower interest rates or charges for overdrafts and loans. Others, 
such as use of a car breakdown service and insurance for travel and mobile phones, were 
not related to banking.
Generally, the monthly fees and the potential value of the benefits increased in the order 
Gold to Platinum to Premier. For some of the time Ms M held some of these accounts, they 
had additional designations such as Vantage. These designations provided some 
additional banking benefits. For example, subject to certain conditions, Lloyds would pay 
interest to Ms M on a Vantage account if she was in credit. Lloyds did not generally charge 
any additional fees for these additional benefits and the additional designations are not 
particularly relevant to Ms Ms complaint. For brevity, I have therefore left them off the above 
summaries. 
Ms M believes that Lloyds mis-sold her all the above PBAs. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt think Lloyds 
had acted unfairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay Ms M any 
further compensation. Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Ms Ms case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms M and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Ms M and Lloyds have both told us that Lloyds recommended that she should buy each 
packaged account, either over the phone or during a meeting at one of its branches. In 
recommended sales like these, I would have expected Lloyds to allow Ms M a choice about 
a packaged or fee-free account, tell her about the monthly fees and the benefits of the 
packaged accounts and check that she had a potential need for these benefits before 
making its recommendations.
Although this complaint covers a series of different events across the two accounts, Im 
satisfied that at all stages Lloyds let Ms M know that she had a choice to have a fee-free 
account. Her account history shows that she did this at various times. And throughout the 
time in question Lloyds provided fee-free accounts quite widely. I doubt it denied Ms M a 
choice. 
Ms M has accepted that Lloyds told her about the monthly fees for the packaged accounts. 
In correspondence with us, she said she understood there was a charge from the outset. 
And Im also confident that Lloyds told her about the potential benefits. After all, it was trying 
to sell the packaged accounts to her and it was in its own interest to tell her what she could 
gain in return for the monthly fees. Furthermore, although Ms M has told us that she now 
thinks the benefits were of no interest to her, she has acknowledged that she knew about 
them. 
One of the main points of Ms Ms complaint is that shes told us that Lloyds said that buying 
the packaged accounts would improve her credit score so she could obtain overdrafts and 
loans more easily. She now believes this to be wrong and that buying a packaged account 
would not affect her credit rating.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Ms M is correct in her current belief that Lloyds would 
have been wrong to tell her that buying a packaged account would improve her credit score. 
The type of current account a person holds gives very little indication of her or his credit 
worthiness and is extremely unlikely to affect a credit score. However, Ms M has not 
provided sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think Lloyds misled her about this. She 
hasnt explained when she remembers the conversation taking place or how it came about 
or given us many details about exactly what she remembers Lloyds saying.
However, Ms M seem to have overdrawn her accounts quite frequently and I understand she 
also took a loan. Throughout the time in question, Lloyds applied lower interest rates and 
charges for overdrafts to customers with Gold, Platinum and Premier accounts than it 
applied to customers with fee-free accounts. And until roughly May 2004, it also offered them 
savings on some types of loan. It seems highly likely to me that Lloyds discussed these 
potential banking benefits of the packaged accounts with Ms M. Indeed, Ms M has told us 
that as she recalls having little interest in the non-banking benefits of the accounts, Lloyds 
focused on overdraft rates when it sold her the accounts. She has described this as a hard 
sell. I also think its quite likely that Lloyds may well have told Ms M that keeping within an agreed 
overdraft limit and keeping up with loan repayments could improve a credit score. But this is 
true, so it would have been a fair thing for Lloyds to say, even if it made the point in quite a 
hard way.
So, looking across all packaged accounts, Im satisfied that on each occasion Lloyds allowed 
Ms M a choice and told her about their costs and benefits. I also doubt that it misled her 
about credit scores. 
Turning to the question of whether Lloyds recommendations were reasonable, as slightly 
different circumstances applied at each stage, I have considered them separately. 
The Gold account from account one, January 2001 
This was Ms Ms first packaged account. Amongst other things, it provided travel insurance 
and potential savings on loans and overdrafts. I have already mentioned that Ms M had a 
potential need for a loan or overdraft and I understand that she also travelled from time-to-
time. So, it seems reasonable to me for Lloyds to have recommended the Gold account to 
her. 
The Platinum account from account one, June 2006
Amongst other things, in June 2006, the Platinum account provided potential savings on 
loans and overdrafts  at a more generous level than those offered by the Gold account. It 
also included travel insurance, use of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile 
phones.  By this time, Lloyds had also added use of a car breakdown service and mobile 
phone insurance to the Gold account, but the car breakdown service was more 
comprehensive with the Platinum account.
I understand that Ms M drove a car and had a mobile phone. And I gather that at around this 
time she increased the level of her overdraft quite significantly. So, I think it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to recommend the Platinum account to her. 
The Platinum account from account two, June 2007
Ms M opened this account at roughly the same time as she closed the Platinum account on 
account one. Essentially it seems to have been a transfer between the two accounts. I dont 
know the background to this transfer, but Im not aware of any significant change in Ms Ms 
circumstances from the situation I have already described. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
behaved reasonably in making its recommendation.
The Premier account from account two, February 2008
Ms M only held this account for a short time. It provided similar, though enhanced, benefits 
to the Platinum account and also included insurance for home emergencies.
Lloyds has told us that it didnt charge Ms M any fees for the Premier account apart from 
those which would have applied if she had kept the Platinum account throughout. In effect, 
this means that there is nothing further for me to consider as Ms M gained the enhanced 
benefits of the Premier account for no additional charge. However, Ms M has made a 
specific point that she didnt want or need the home emergency insurance. I accept this, but 
as Lloyds didnt charge her for the short period she had it, I dont think she lost out.The Platinum account from account two, March 2008
This was essentially a return to the Platinum account which Ms M held before Lloyds sold 
her the Premier account. And as I am not aware of any significant change in her  
circumstances since Lloyds originally sold her the Platinum account, I think it behaved 
reasonably in making any recommendation.
The Platinum account from account two, Feb 2010
Lloyds has accepted it mis-sold this account to Ms M. I understand it has refunded the fees 
she paid and added simple interest at the rate of 8% per year. This is in line with the 
compensation we ask banks to pay for mis-selling packaged accounts. So, there is nothing 
more for me to consider about this part of Ms Ms complaint. 
In the course of our investigation into Ms Ms complaint she has told us that for some of the 
time she held the packaged accounts she had alternative travel insurance and access to a 
separate car breakdown service. I accept this, but packaged accounts cant be adjusted for 
precise individual preferences and these alternatives dont mean that Lloyds mis-sold the 
package accounts to her. Similarly, she has also mentioned that she found it difficult to 
register her mobile phone for the insurance cover. She hasnt told us a great deal about 
these difficulties, but I dont think they were sufficiently onerous to indicate mis-selling. 
Ms M has also mentioned that at times she had significant debts and that she ran a business 
renting out houses which may have contributed to these debts. I accept this, but again I dont 
think it shows that Lloyds behaved unfairly towards her when it sold her the packaged 
accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any more money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman