DRN-3869260
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Limited misled him as to the value of his term assurance 
policy, meaning he eventually received far less than he expected. He says ReAssures 
actions have had an enormous impact on himself and his family at what has been an already 
difficult time, as they placed reliance on receiving a £77,000 settlement.   
To resolve the matter, he feels he should be paid a settlement from ReAssure as well as 
compensation for the distress and suffering caused to him and his family. 
What happened
In June 1997, Mr P took out a Lifecare Mortgage Security Plan from Zurich Life Assurance 
Company Limited. The policy was taken out through an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
alongside mortgage lending. It offered life assurance and critical illness benefit on a 
decreasing basis for a 25-year term and £53.84 premium. It was later acquired by ReAssure.  
In October 2021, Mr P made a claim to ReAssure for critical illness benefit, after he had 
sadly suffered from a stroke. He returned a claim form to ReAssure, and it acknowledged 
receipt on 2 November 2021.  
In the interim, Mr P made calls to ReAssure on 15 and 18 November 2021. He said that 
during these calls when discussing the claim, he was told the claim value was £77,000.  
On 18 November 2021, ReAssure accepted Mr Ps critical illness benefit claim under the 
policy. It sent him a letter in which it confirmed it would make payment within two to three 
weeks. However, the letter did not set out the claim value.  
Mr P thereafter made two further calls to ReAssure on 22 November and 8 December 2021. 
Again, he said that ReAssure led him to understand that the claim value was £77,000.
On 8 December 2021, ReAssure wrote to Mr P confirming it had paid a claim for £4,196.52.
Mr P complained. He said when he spoke with ReAssure, he was told the claim value was 
£77,000. He also noted that when he paid his mortgage off in full in July 2017, ReAssure 
had sent him a letter the following month which also said the policy value was £77,000. Mr P 
contended that several call handlers had assured him of the amount, and that the claim was 
merely delayed because of backlogs of work. To then receive a payment some 95% less 
than he had expected came as a complete shock to him and was detrimental to his health. 
In February 2022, ReAssure upheld the complaint. It said the £4,196.52 value was correct 
so it could not reassess the claim payment. However, it accepted that its systems had shown 
the policy value as £77,000 and so its call handlers had not put that misconception right 
when Mr P had called on various occasions. 
ReAssure therefore sent Mr P £500 by bank transfer to apologise for the impact its action 
had on him in terms of the disappointment he had been caused. 
Mr P said he remained unhappy. He had made financial promises to his wife and child as 
well as anticipating using the policy proceeds for rehabilitation therapy following his stroke. 
He said he had paid £15,000 in policy premiums since 1997; he did not understand how the 
policy worked, given how premiums for the same amount each month were taken throughout 
the life of the policy.  
In March 2022, ReAssure told Mr P that it was not willing to change its view. It believed it 
had correctly upheld Mr Ps complaint in respect of the misleading information that its call 
handlers had given. But it had otherwise paid the right claim value for Mr Ps policy.  
So, Mr P referred his complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She said ReAssure had paid Mr Ps claim in line with the terms and conditions 
agreed with Zurich from the outset. So, it couldnt pay the difference of £65,803 to Mr P. 
However, she said ReAssures actions had fallen short, and it had not properly handled Mr 
Ps expectations. She noted how it had transpired that ReAssures systems held the value 
for his policy as £70,000 despite it being a decreasing term policy; and this was without 
ReAssure updating the system to reflect that Mr P had repaid his mortgage back in 2017.  
However, ReAssure had told Mr P in August 2017 of his correct sum assured, and again in 
March 2021 when he made another enquiry about the policy. So, whilst she could see that 
the misinformation of the various telephone calls had caused Mr P shock and upset, she 
believed £500 was a fair sum to propose for the loss of expectation he had suffered.  
Mr P thanked our investigator for her view but noted he wanted the complaint to be 
reconsidered by an ombudsman. He explained how he felt he deserved a higher amount of 
compensation than the £500 he had already received. As an additional point, he also said he 
had previously queried why he continued to pay the £53 monthly premium when his 
mortgage had been paid off some four years earlier; this had never been explained to him. 
ReAssure didnt make any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ps health issues. I send my best wishes to him and his family. 
Having looked at everything before me, I also do not believe ReAssure needs to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint. 
Though I agree that ReAssure ought to have compensated Mr P for the upset it caused him 
by suggesting that his claim value was £77,000 when it wasnt, I think the payment of £500 
was appropriate in those circumstances, and do not otherwise believe further compensation 
is due. I know it will be disappointing for Mr P, but Ill set out my reasons for this view below.  
This complaint is not about the sale of the policy or the advice received in 1997, but it may 
help if I set out some information about his Lifecare Mortgage Security Plan; as I note Mr P 
has queried why he continued to pay premiums after 2017 when he settled his mortgage.  
The policy Mr P took out with Zurich through his IFA was term assurance. Insurances such 
as life assurance and critical illness cover are a prudent step to take to provide security for a 
significant liability such as a mortgage, for future protection in the event that a policyholder 
may fall seriously ill or pass away. When recommendations for these types of policies are made, an adviser would seek to understand why the cover is being sought. Applicants may 
want level insurance for family protection rather than for a specified debt, for example.   
To explain, there are two variations with term assurance policies, those being level term 
and decreasing term cover. Level term assurance pays out the same sum on death (or 
payment of critical illness benefit if included) at any time during the term. For decreasing 
term assurance, the death or critical illness benefit reduces during the term. So, the former 
may be used to provide lifestyle cover  i.e., a lump sum payment for family members, 
whereas the latter would be used to repay a specific debt, such as a mortgage. 
The policy information issued to Mr P by Zurich in its acceptance letter dated 27 June 1997 
explained that. It said:
Sum assured: 
£77,000 payable during the term of the plan upon survival for 15 days after the 
diagnosis of any of the range of illnesses or conditions as defined in the Lifecare 
Core Cover or upon the Life Assured becoming Permanently and Totally Disabled as 
defined below or in the event of the prior death of the Life Assured.
The cover is provided based on a reducing sum insured [my emphasis] so as to 
cover a repayment mortgage at an interest rate of up to 15% per annum.
Decreasing term assurance is, on general grounds, notably cheaper than level term 
assurance. It is the most appropriate recommendation for applicants with capital repayment 
mortgages. This is because as the amount outstanding on the lending decreases, so does 
the cover on the policy; this means a policyholder is not paying for extra cover they dont 
need, beyond their documented mortgage liability. 
When a business calculates a policy premium following an application for either level or 
decreasing term assurance, that premium will be fixed from the outset. Some policies will 
have provision for premiums to be increased proportionately  such as RPI increases to 
account for inflation, for example - though this did not apply to Mr Ps policy.  
A fixed premium is agreed at the start of the policy term so its clear what a policyholder has 
to pay each month. This will be based on a total cost for the life of the policy as set by the 
insurer (based on actuarial variables such as age, health, lifestyle factors such as smoking 
and family medical history) divided by the number of months in the policy term. This is the 
most sensible way to set premium payments for decreasing term cover - if the premiums 
also reduced as the policy went along, then they would need to be larger at the outset and 
therefore could be prohibitively expensive at the start of a policy.
Providing premiums are maintained, a term assurance policy will run for the entire term 
unless either a valid claim is made of the policyholder terminates the policy. So, Mr P could 
have considered doing so in 2017 at the time he paid off his mortgage liability. However, as 
the policy continued to provide cover to July 2022, he was equally able to maintain it if he 
wished to continue paying the policy premiums. Despite this, the sum assured would 
continue to reduce monthly from 1997 to 2022, broadly in line with the original £77,000 
borrowing.
Mr P was also sent a copy of the policy terms and conditions at the time of the sale, and 
these explained in detail how the policy worked. Condition 7 of the terms said:
Lifecare Mortgage Security PlansThis plan is designed to provide cover in respect of a repayment mortgage which 
meets the conditions set out below. Provided that all of them are met, the Sum 
Assured payable under Condition 8 will be calculated by us as the amount that is 
outstanding in respect of the mortgage as at the date on which the Sum Assured 
becomes payable.
Alternatively, if the mortgage is repaid in full before the Sum Assured becomes 
payable, the Sum Assured will be calculated by us as the amount that would be 
outstanding in respect of a hypothetical mortgage which meets all of the above 
conditions. We will base this calculation on the rates of interest that would or might 
have been charged in respect of such a mortgage by the Halifax Building Society, or 
if those rates are not readily available, by a similar lending source chosen by us.
Further, I have seen the letter sent to Mr P in August 2017 following the repayment of his 
mortgage. That letter thanks Mr P for his enquiry about the policy and says:
The sum assured of £77,000.00 is the original amount shown on the policy 
schedule. As long as the mortgage repayments have been met and no exclusions or 
limitations apply this policy will pay the outstanding mortgage amount in the event of 
the life assureds death. For full details of any exclusions and limitations please refer 
to the policy terms and conditions. Please contact the mortgage lender to find out the 
outstanding amount left on the mortgage.
Please note that the current sum assured as at 24 August 2017 is £23,012.00.
 
Another letter was issued to Mr P on 12 March 2021. Again, ReAssure thanked him for his 
enquiry and set out the policy details as:
Sum assured / Benefit amount:
Death  £6,134.57  Single Payment
Disability  £6,134.57  Single Payment
Critical Illness  £6,134.57  Single Payment
Terminal illness  £6,134.57  Single Payment
This policy is a Term Assurance. This means that the policy runs for a specific term 
with a sum assured that is paid out if a valid claim is made within the policy term. If a 
valid claim is not made within the policy term, nothing is payable.
I hope that Mr P can appreciate why I have concluded that ReAssure has correctly 
calculated his decreasing sum assured as at the date it accepted the claim in November 
2021. The policy was due to end in a further eight months, and so the sum assured had 
reduced to only 5% of the remaining original sum assured  because Mr Ps capital 
repayment mortgage would have reduced in the same way. And therefore, a claim payment 
would clear the outstanding mortgage balance, had it still been in place.  
Notwithstanding the upset Mr P has been placed under, the correct response to a businesss 
mistake is to put a consumer in the position they would have been in, but for that mistake. 
Up to the time of Mr Ps claim, ReAssure had given correct information about the policy. It 
then confused him by quoting the initial £77,000 sum assured on several occasions. 
However, if ReAssure had given the right quotes, it would still have paid the £4,196.52 claim 
value to Mr P upon receipt of medical evidence for a valid critical illness claim. I cannot 
therefore direct ReAssure to pay the balance of £65,803 because Mr P never held a level 
term assurance policy, nor did he pay additional premiums for that type of cover. What is clear from the evidence is that ReAssures actions were misleading and confusing 
for Mr P because he placed reliance on it knowing his claim value and he did not seek to 
question what he was previously told about the policy  even if he was able to recall it. This 
created a loss of expectation when the reduced claim amount was paid three weeks later. I 
agree that some compensation was due for those errors, and ReAssure has already paid it.   
What this service does is consider if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of 
actions or inactions. And if it has done so, we then go on to consider what ought to be done 
to put the mistake(s) right. In this case, that was to pay Mr P the correct claim value, and to 
compensate him for the loss of expectation he had suffered when he discovered that the 
original quoted value wasnt right.
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though there are none in this 
circumstance), we also consider the emotional or practical impact of any errors on a 
complainant  in this case, Mr P. I cannot consider the impact on Mr Ps family directly, as 
they are not the complainants in this matter. In doing so, we do not fine or punish 
businesses; we are not a regulator, that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.  
It may be helpful for Mr P to review to the guidance available on our website around the 
amounts and types of awards made in instances of upset, trouble, inconvenience and 
distress caused by businesses in the complaints we see at this service.  
Taking into account the impact of the misinformation about the claim value, I believe the 
payment of £500 was reasonable in the circumstances where several instances of repeating 
an incorrect claim value and then amending it caused considerable upset and anguish for Mr 
P. The misconception also took several weeks to be rectified, and it had a notable short-term 
impact on Mr P, because he had already made provisions for the proceeds of the claim 
payment including for his medical care. The amount of £500 is an amount I believe 
appropriate for combined errors of this nature, and I do not make any other award. 
My final decision
Though I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr P, I do not believe ReAssure Limited 
needs to do anything further to settle the complaint. It has rightly compensated him for the 
circumstances of the upset he has suffered, as explained above. As this payment has 
already been made, I do not require ReAssure to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman