DRN-3150057
The complaint
Ms W has complained that items left in her car when it was recovered following an accident 
havent been returned to her. Ms W made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
All references to the insurer Advantage in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
Ms W was unfortunately involved in an incident with another vehicle. She reported it to her 
insurer, Advantage. 
Advantage arranged for Ms Ws car to be recovered from the scene and it was moved to a 
recovery compound. From there, it was moved to a salvage company and Ms Ws car was 
declared a write off. 
Ms W said there were several items left in the car which she wanted back. However, the 
approved repairer and the recovery agent told Advantage it had no record of the items. 
Ms W raised a complaint with Advantage. But Advantage said there was no evidence either 
way that the items were in the car at the time of the incident  or that either the recovery 
agent or AR took them. But as a goodwill gesture, it paid Ms W £50. 
Ms W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. He couldnt say that Advantage had acted unreasonably. 
Ms W didnt agree. She says Advantage should have told her she needed to remove the 
items before her car was recovered. She wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator in his view referred to the phone call between Ms W and Advantage when 
she reported the incident , where Ms W said she had a couple of boxes of work related items 
and said; theres really not much in the car. I understand Ms W is upset this has been 
taken into consideration. She says she was waiting to speak to the police and was upset as 
shed just been involved in an accident. She said the personal items and how she described 
them was the furthest thing from her mind at the time.
Ive considered what Ms W says here, along with the other available information. Having 
done so, I dont think it changes the outcome. Ill explain why.
Advantage has provided testimony from the recovery agent. They say Ms Ws car was 
extensively damaged at the front. Photos of Ms Ws car show it was damaged as the agent 
described. The agent said it wasnt necessary to enter Ms Ws car in order to recover it. 
A copy of the collection sheet from the salvage company where Ms Ws car was delivered to 
says the car wasnt driveable. When Advantage contacted the salvage company about Ms 
Ws items, it checked its personal possessions storage but said there was nothing matching 
the items Ms W claimed for. The salvage company said the only items it found in Ms Ws car 
was a torn up box and some papers. 
Ms W says the items that were in her car were worth almost £1,200. Ive looked at 
Advantages policy and it says the most it will pay for personal belongings in the event of a 
claim is £300. It says Advantage may ask for proof of the items. 
I understand Ms W wasnt able to provide proof for the items she was claiming for. And I can 
understand that she is very upset about the way the claim has been handled. But I cant 
safely conclude that Advantage acted unreasonably. It made enquiries with the parties 
involved in the recovery and storage of Ms Ws car. Unfortunately there is nothing for 
Advantage to be able to decide that the items Ms W is claiming for were in the car or were 
stolen while under their care. 
Ms W says Advantage should have processes in place to properly deal with a customers 
belongings when incidents occur. Advantage says it depends on the circumstances of the 
incident  usually it asks for a sweep of the vehicle for personal items. But even if this had 
taken place, I cant say that the outcome would have been any different. 
Ms W says the complaint handler at Advantage believed her. I dont think this is a case of 
whether Advantage believes Ms W or not  but it isnt able to conclude that the items were in 
the car or taken by the recovery agent or the salvage company.
Ms W told us she has contacted the police to report the theft of the items, but I understand 
the matter hasnt been taken any further. If there is any new information or an outcome 
following her contact with the police, I think its reasonable for Advantage to reconsider 
matters for Ms W. 
I realise Ms W will be very disappointed with my decision. But from the information available, 
I dont think Advantage has acted unreasonably. And this means Im not upholding her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman