DRN-3799456
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society set up an insurance policy in their 
name which they hadnt agreed to.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs P spoke with Nationwide about a mortgage and part of that 
conversation was about a quote for life insurance. 
Mr and Mrs P understood that this was just a quote and that they didnt agree to set a policy 
up; in fact they went elsewhere to take out a policy. So they were surprised some time later 
when they received a letter from a policy provider saying that a policy had been set up in 
their name using details provided by Nationwide. Mr and Mrs P contacted the provider and 
the policy was cancelled before any payments were taken. 
Feeling unhappy with what happened Mr and Mrs P complained to Nationwide saying the 
policy had been mis-sold and that they hadnt agreed to it being set up. Nationwide looked at 
documents from the time and didnt uphold the complaint saying these showed Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to the policy. However in recognition of the inconvenience caused by having to 
cancel the policy themselves with the provider Nationwide paid each of them £100. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this response and didnt accept the outcome nor the total 
of £200 which had been paid. Nationwide took the £200 back but unfortunately made an 
error which caused more upset. 
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators considered what had happened. They thought the £200 was a fair level of 
compensation taking into account that the policy had been quickly cancelled and no 
premiums had been taken so there was no financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed saying that Nationwide had taken out cover without their consent 
and they want an admittance of wrong-doing and an apology. Some telephone calls were 
provided which our Investigator considered, but this didnt change their opinion that the £200 
was fair for what happened. However the telephone call when the advice took place isnt 
available which Mr and Mrs P feel is a serious issue. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read and 
considered everything provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt agree to take out the insurance policy. Unfortunately the 
telephone call isnt available and I know Mr and Mrs P see this as an important part of their 
complaint as they feel Nationwide has called them liars about what happened. And theyre 
also unhappy they were told the call was being recorded but seemingly either it wasnt, or its 
been lost.  Mr and Mrs P go on to say that Nationwide should have proof of acceptance 
before putting an insurance policy in place. And I and see why they feel these things.
Mr and Mrs P say that it makes no sense for them to take out two insurances policies; and I 
agree. So whilst I dont have access to the call I think something went wrong. Looking at 
everything Mr and Mrs P have said I think they went away from the telephone call thinking 
they had only discussed a quote and that they hadnt agreed to set up the policy.
When something like this happens I need to consider the impact of what happened and its 
not always necessary to know how or why it happened. This is an important distinction. 
Mr and Mrs P have asked a lot of questions about this and raised many complaint points 
including saying they want to prove once and for all that we didnt agree for Nationwide to 
take out life cover in our name. So I know they will be disappointed that I havent answered 
a lot of their questions around this, but its the impact of what happened which is important.  
Proving what happened wont change the impact of the policy being set up and Im happy to 
accept that Mr and Mrs P didnt want the policy. 
Here an unwanted policy was set up. This meant that Mr and Mrs P had to contact the 
product provider and cancel the policy. This was sorted out quickly and since no premiums 
had been taken there was no direct financial loss. And its the impact of this  the unwanted 
policy being set up - that I need to consider.
Nationwide have offered a total of £200 for the inconvenience of Mr and Mrs P having to call 
up themselves and cancel the policy. For something that was resolved very quickly over the 
telephone with the provider, and with no financial loss, Im satisfied the payment is a 
reasonable way of resolving the complaint.   
I know that Nationwide made an error when taking back the £200 they had paid and that this 
caused some worry and inconvenience. However things like what happened are part of the 
complaint handling process and in this case our rules dont allow me to comment or award 
any further compensation. 
Similarly I know Mr and Mrs P have spent much time and effort pursuing this complaint both 
with Nationwide and our service but this isnt something I can award compensation for. In 
this set of circumstances the problem was fixed very quickly and with no financial loss and 
that is the matter for me to decide upon. 
Mr and Mrs P say they want confirmation that they will review processes and that required 
changes will be made so this doesnt happen to anyone else and that Nationwide should 
receive a suitable size fine to deter them . And whilst I can see the sentiment my role is to 
resolve individual consumer disputes, and this doesnt involve telling businesses to change 
their policies and procedures or issuing fines. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied a payment of £200 is fair compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs P were put to when cancelling the unwanted policy.  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs P £200 for the inconvenience caused by 
what happened.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs P £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman