DRN-3757107
The complaint
Ms B complains Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) failed to remove her son from her plan when he 
turned 18. She also complains Vitality made changes to the rewards offered. 
What happened
Ms B took out a life plan with Vitality in February 2016. On the plan, she also took out 
optional cover for her son and paid an additional £4.45 per month for this. She became 
concerned with how Vitality administered the policy and contacted them to complain. 
Vitality responded to the complaint. However, Ms B remained unhappy and asked us to 
investigate. Our Investigator issued a view explaining why they didnt think Vitality had done 
anything wrong. Ms B didnt agree. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not seen evidence which would satisfy me that Vitality provided advice at the time Ms B 
took this policy out. In these circumstances, I cant say they are responsible for ensuring the 
policy was something Ms B needed.
Nevertheless, Vitality would still need to ensure they provided sufficiently clear information 
about the plan and how it worked. Ive reviewed the documents from February 2016, and Im 
satisfied they did so. I can also see they explained how their online zone for members 
worked so Ms B could find more information. 
Reward Changes
I appreciate Ms B was disappointed about the benefits including rewards around the smart 
watch, cinema tickets and coffee shops. However, the policy documents from February 2016 
explained Vitality could change the way the reward part of the plan worked. This included the 
range of activities, incentives or partners and the way they awarded points. It also confirmed 
if Ms B wasnt happy with the changes, then she could cancel her plan. 
Ive seen Vitality wrote to Ms B on 18 September 2020 and confirmed the number of tickets 
she could earn per month was being reduced from two tickets to one. Also, Vitality wrote to 
her on 17 November 2020 and confirmed they were replacing the cinema partner. Vitalitys 
Member Zone was also highlighted in the letter and Ms B could log in to find further 
information and keep up to date with the changes. So, it seems Vitality sought to keep her 
reasonably informed. 
Vitality explained in their response on 1 April 2022 that they do try and make changes with 
their members best interests in mind, but it wouldnt necessarily be possible to provide a 
benefit which would suit each member. Id also note its not for me to say what rewards they 
should offer. Having considered the evidence, Im not persuaded Vitality administered the 
policy unfairly in respect of the rewards. 
In response to the view, Ms B questioned how her son was supposed to get a cinema ticket 
on her policy. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions provided on the website and I can see 
it confirmed that child dependants aged under 18 couldnt claim cinema ticket codes but 
each adult on the plan needed to earn a certain amount of points. It also stated that 
dependants on the plan who are 18 and over would need to earn a certain number of points 
and claim their own ticket. 
Its clear from the information provided that adult dependents could earn their own points for 
the rewards. Ive also seen Vitality offered to set this up in their letter to Ms B of 1 April 2022. 
So, even though it was Ms Bs policy, it seems her son could earn rewards as an adult 
dependent on it and Im not persuaded Vitality have done anything wrong here.
 
Removal of Ms Bs son from the plan
I understand Ms B expected her son to be automatically removed from the policy when he 
reached 18. The annual statement dated 8 December 2021 shows Ms Bs son was covered 
under the plan. In the statement, Vitality also confirmed that when her son was 18 (or older) 
cover would continue while he stayed in full time education and until the plan anniversary 
after his 23rd birthday. They asked Ms B to let them know if anything had changed. 
Ive seen the letter dated 4 May 2022 sent by Vitality to Ms B which confirmed her plan had 
been updated and her son removed from the policy. I appreciate Ms B was concerned they 
didnt remove him automatically, but given the information provided Im satisfied they 
removed him within a reasonable time of her requesting this change. 
 
Overall, Im satisfied Vitalitys service has been reasonable. Theyre able to make changes 
to how the rewards work and seem to have given Ms B reasonable notice of the changes. 
Additionally, Im satisfied their service was reasonable in respect of removing Ms Bs son 
from the policy. They seem to have acted in line with their terms and conditions and the 
evidence doesnt persuade me they administered the policy unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman