DRN-3549365
The complaint
Mr R says that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) unfairly refused to 
contribute to repair costs under the terms of his parts and garage (breakdown repair) 
insurance policy.
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr Rs car wouldnt start so he called his breakdown assistance provider. When the 
breakdown assistance attendant arrived, the issue was diagnosed as a faulty alternator. 
During the visit a handbrake fault was also identified. This was noted on the breakdown fault 
sheet but was marked as fault did not cause breakdown.
When Acromas was validating the claim, it said it was willing to cover the alternator but not 
the handbrake. Mr R said this wasnt fair. He said it was all part and parcel of the same 
claim and he complained. Acromas said that as per its policy terms and conditions, the 
handbrake issue wasnt covered. It said the policy only provides cover for what initially 
caused the car not to start. 
So, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed his complaint and 
initially agreed with Acromas and said the handbrake claim was excluded. However, on 
review the investigator said that even though the handbrake was a separate issue, the car 
still remained unsafe to drive, and asked Acromas to reconsider the claim.
Acromas doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2022. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Our approach is to review Acromass actions and to decide whether it has done enough to 
fairly and reasonably decline Mr Rs claim in line with the available evidence, taking into 
account the terms and conditions of his policy. I think its helpful to explain that, if Im 
satisfied the policy terms have been applied fairly then I wont be recommending Acromas 
pay Mr Rs claim
Mr Rs policy says that if certain criteria are met then Acromas will contribute up to £535 
toward
the cost of repairing his car following a breakdown. The policy defines a breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended under Your breakdown membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your breakdown membership, 
commenced.
The policy also says:
Mechanical or Electrical Failures must cause a sudden and unexpected Breakdown, and 
this policy will not cover failures that You were previously aware of or have been made 
aware of or that are not directly related to the cause of the Breakdown. 
And there are things the policy doesn't cover, which includes:
any faults identified by, or reported to, the mobile mechanic, appointed garage agent, or 
Your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial Breakdown.
So, the policy will cover a contribution towards repairing the cause of the initial breakdown 
where a breakdown assistance attendant attended, but it wont provide cover for anything 
else that might arise or be identified afterwards. And Acromas declined Mr Rs claim for the 
handbrake issue on that basis. That is because the handbrake issue wasn't the cause of the 
initial breakdown. So, Acromas decided the policy didn't cover it.
Mr R says it is all part and parcel of the one claim and he should be allowed to make one 
claim and pay one excess for both issues. But Acromas says the call out was for the engine 
problem only which turned out to be an alternator issue. It says the handbrake issue is 
separate, and only came to light when the breakdown assistant attended. As such it doesnt 
form part of the claim and falls outside of the terms of the policy.
It's not in dispute that Mr R didn't initially call to report the handbrake issue. He only reported 
the engine issue. Ive listened to the call and he says, I have a breakdown at home. He 
says he wants someone out as soon as possible as his car is making an awful noise when it 
starts. He says, the engine turns over but is making a massive noise.  
Acromas says the handbrake fault only came to light whilst the breakdown assistant was in 
attendance. Mr Rs version of events is similar, and he says in another call that the 
handbrake failed when the breakdown assistant was in attendance. But Mr R says the 
breakdown assistant failed to put this on the breakdown report. However, this isnt correct. I 
can see the breakdown assistant did list the handbrake on the report. And it was noted as 
fault did not cause breakdown. As such I think that situation falls squarely within the policy 
exclusion I've quoted above. That is, the handbrake issue wasnt the reason for the initial 
breakdown. This is a breakdown repair cover, not a warranty or servicing cover. So, a claim 
for that issue is excluded by the policy term in this type of policy.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with the outcome. But, having thought about this very 
carefully Im satisfied that Acromas has fairly applied the policy terms when it declined to 
cover the handbrake claim. As such I'm not going to ask Acromas to take any further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 19 May 2022 as set out above.Acromas hasnt responded. Mr R has responded, and hes expressed his dissatisfaction with 
the provisional decision. But he hasnt raised any additional points. So, whilst I acknowledge 
Mr Rs response, as there are no further issues raised, I see no reason to depart from my 
findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman