DRN-2262163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to consider their porting 
application, which it then unfairly declined. They paid an early repayment charge (ERC) and 
ask that Barclays refunds the ERC and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Barclays, with a fixed interest rate product. In April 2019 
they applied to port the mortgage to another property. Barclays declined, saying the new 
property wasnt suitable security. Mr and Mrs P had to borrow elsewhere. They had to pay 
an ERC when they repaid their mortgage to Barclays.
Mr and Mrs P say Barclays was unfair to decline their porting request when they had an 
engineers report saying the property was mortgageable. They say it should refund the ERC. 
They also say Barclays caused delays reviewing their application, and this increased their 
purchase costs and caused distress. 
Our investigator said the property Mr and Mrs P wanted to buy didnt meet Barclays lending 
criteria and it was entitled not to lend. She said it wasnt fair to require it to refund the ERC. 
The investigator said while Barclays didnt cause unreasonable delays, it didnt manage Mr 
and Mrs Ps expectations about the time it would take to review their application. She said 
the compensation offered by Barclays for the upset this caused was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said they provided a engineers report that showed the 
property was mortgageable. They said if Barclays had a problem lending on older properties 
it could have told them at the outset, and saved them money and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P took out a fixed interest rate product. An ERC applied if the mortgage was 
repaid during the product term, which expired in April 2020. Mr and Mrs P repaid the 
mortgage during the product term and paid the ERC.
Mr and Mrs P say it was unfair for Barclays to apply the ERC and ask that its refunded. 
Having thought about what theyve said, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to refund the ERC. Ive explained why below.
The terms of the fixed interest rate product were set out in a mortgage offer. This set out the 
amount of the ERC and when it would be applied in clear terms. Mr and Mrs P agreed to this 
when they took out the fixed rate product.
The mortgage offer said the mortgage interest rate could be transferred to another property 
provided you meet the lending criteria in force at the time. Theres no guarantee that the 
interest rate would be ported  just a right to apply and have the application considered 
fairly.
Here, Barclays declined Mr and Mrs Ps porting application because the property they 
wanted to buy didnt meet its lending criteria. 
Barclays asked for a valuation report, to help it decide whether the property was suitable 
security. The valuation report said there was severe structural movement and recommended 
obtaining a structural engineers report to confirm stability or recommend remedial work. The 
valuation report said the movement could be progressive and therefore Barclays wouldnt 
lend. It gave the property a value of zero. 
Mr P provided a structural inspection report provided to the vendors of the property by a civil 
engineer in October 2018. The report says there were significant issues with the property. It 
says subject to complete renovation the property is suitable for lending and a low risk to 
a lender.
After reviewing the structural inspection report, the valuer didnt change its advice. 
Mr P says the work needed was manageable and the property was mortgageable  as 
evidenced by them getting a mortgage elsewhere. He says it cant be right to say the 
property value was zero. And he says the structural inspection report doesnt say theres 
progressive structural movement.
Its good news that Mr and Mrs P were able to get a mortgage from another provider. But 
this doesnt mean Barclays was unfair not to offer them a mortgage. Lenders are entitled to 
have policies about whether properties are acceptable security for them to lend against. 
Barclays provided the relevant part of its policy. The valuer told Barclays this property didnt 
meet its lending policy, and thats why the valuer didnt give the property a value.
The valuer said its valuation could be reviewed if a structural engineers report confirmed 
stability or recommended remedial work. The structural inspection report didnt confirm 
stability. It recommended repair work and said the property had significant issues; it said the 
property would be suitable security subject to complete renovation, only part of which was 
costed. The valuer didnt change its advice or valuation after reviewing the structural 
inspection report. I think it was reasonable for Barclays to rely on the advice of the valuer it 
appointed. 
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to decline to lend on the basis the property didnt meet 
its lending criteria. That doesnt mean the property is worth nothing, or that the problems with 
the property couldnt be fixed. Or that all lenders would have the same view. It only means 
that the property Mr and Mrs P wanted to buy didnt meet Barclays lending policy.  
Delays in the application decision
Mr and Mrs P contacted Barclays in early April 2019 about porting their mortgage. They 
applied for a decision in principle online. They met with an adviser and applied to port their 
mortgage on 18 April 2019. They say they were told it would take 10 working days. But they 
didnt get a decision for a month.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P were disappointed that Barclays took more than 10 days to 
give them a decision. Overall, I dont think the time taken by Barclays was unreasonable in 
the circumstances. In part, this was due to it reviewing its position, as requested by Mr and 
Mrs P, after they provided the structural inspection report. Mr and Mrs P say Barclays could 
have saved them worry, time and money if it told them at the outset it wouldnt lend. I dont think thats fair  Barclays couldnt make a fair decision whether to port Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage before receiving advice from its valuer.
The process of buying and selling property is stressful. Mr P provided correspondence about 
his sale and purchase, which was done through a bid system as there was more than one 
potential buyer. No doubt this added to Mr and Mrs Ps worry, and they say they had to pay 
more for the property they bought. But I dont think Barclays caused unreasonable delays 
and it wasnt responsible for the way the vendors sold the property. Barclays offered 
compensation of £200 for the time taken to give Mr and Mrs P a decision. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I leave it to Mr and Mrs P to decide whether to accept 
this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman