DRN-2962913
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund several transactions he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card account with NatWest which hed used for some years. The account 
was set up to send out paper statements. Upon receiving his March 2020 statement, he 
noticed a large number of transactions had been made to an online betting company Ill refer 
to as V. Mr H explained that hed recently changed address and the account was registered 
at his old address. The statement showed numerous outgoing payments to V and several 
incoming payments that credited his account, presumably from winnings.
Mr H didnt recognise making these and contacted NatWest about them. NatWest contacted 
V who replied with evidence that an account had been set up in Mr Hs name at his correct 
address (at the time of the account opening) and with Mr Hs correct date of birth. V 
recorded a different email address and referred to an earlier email address linked to the 
account. There was a contact phone number which was one digit different to Mr Hs genuine 
mobile phone number.
NatWest believed this was sufficient evidence to hold Mr H responsible for making the 
transactions and declined to refund him. Mr H complained about this and NatWest relooked 
into the claim but maintained their decision. They told Mr H that V had matching name, 
email, address and date of birth which was why they werent going to refund him.
Mr H was unhappy with how NatWest had dealt with his claim and brought a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who thought the evidence obtained by NatWest from V was sufficient to hold 
Mr H liable and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H disagreed and made several points:
The unusual nature of the payments should have triggered a fraud response.
He disagreed with the investigators conclusion about the pattern of transactions.
Mr H believed winnings would be paid to a bank account, which hed seen no 
evidence of.
He didnt believe V could have confirmed his identity.
Our investigator responded to Mr Hs points and explained that the winnings were paid back 
to his account and it wouldnt be of any benefit to a third party to have winnings paid into 
someone elses account. He explained that the account opening procedure was Vs 
responsibility and not NatWests.
 Mr H wanted a further review of his complaint, which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr H liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical information about the  
transactions. NatWest have supplied that evidence and Im satisfied it shows the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
Consent is a formal step in the payment process and refers to the way in which NatWest and 
Mr H agreed to use the card for transactions. For example, when using the cards details for 
online payments, NatWest agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made 
by the cardholder or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf.
Because the transactions in this case have been shown to be properly authenticated and 
they used the genuine card details - Im satisfied that NatWest had received appropriate 
instructions to make the payments on Mr Hs behalf. But, there are exceptions where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for NatWest to hold Mr H responsible, for example if the card was 
used without his permission. 
V have been unable to provide much further detail despite additional enquiries being made 
by the Financial Ombudsman and Mr H himself. Im grateful for Mr Hs patience while weve 
tried to obtain more information about this complaint. V were able to confirm they had an 
account registered in Mr Hs name and transactions had occurred using his credit card but 
linked to a different account.
It's Mr Hs case that he didnt open an account with H nor make any transactions using his 
credit card. NatWest have held him responsible based, in part, on the information they 
received from V.
Theres clearly a difference in opinion between the two parties and there are aspects to this 
complaint which dont fall neatly into a clear answer one way or another. I accept this is a 
finely balanced complaint and where there is a dispute about what happened, and the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
Mr H has been consistent with his version of events that he knew nothing of these payments, 
nor did he open an account with V. NatWest have relied on their enquiry with V to hold Mr H 
responsible and in doing so used the information supplied to them by V. I dont think its 
contested by either party that V had Mr Hs name, address and date of birth plus his credit 
card details. V also gave a mobile phone number in their response and an email address. 
The mobile phone number was incorrect (albeit by one digit) and the email address they 
recorded isnt known to Mr H. The notes taken by NatWest from V about the email address 
state it had been recently changed, but dont specify what the earlier one was. When 
researched, the (current) email address refers to someone who lives in the United States of 
America. 
When NatWest received this information, they believed the email address was an old one linked to Mr H  which is something I questioned with them. NatWest later confirmed that the 
email address they held for Mr H was the original one he registered some years before the 
disputed transactions and the later one given to them by V wasnt linked to Mr H in any way 
in their records. The notes from V indicate that there was a different email address, but the 
details werent provided.
When V responded to NatWest, they confirmed there were no third-party accounts linked to 
Mr H, but in their response to enquiries made by the Financial Ombudsmen, they confirmed 
there were two accounts linked to Mr H. One with his details and one linked to his credit 
card. So, I think theres some variation in the details held by V between what they told 
NatWest and what they told us.
It's apparent that some of the details were different and there were additional factors not 
given to NatWest, so Ive had to assess the evidence I do have. Whilst there are differences, 
the information supplied to NatWest indicated sufficient connections to Mr H that I think their 
response to Vs information was reasonable. I cant know what other information V had, or 
whether the other accounts they referred to were set up by Mr H, but I think the relevant 
issue here is that V had two accounts linked in one way or another to Mr H.
Mr H couldnt explain how his details had been obtained and its apparent that whoever was 
using the credit card seemed to have a good idea about the credit limit. Thats because the 
transactions were made within one billing period and went close to the limit before stopping. 
The pattern of the transactions also seems to support that another account with V was 
operating. Thats because the first payment to them from Mr Hs account was for £150 which 
was followed by five incoming payments totalling nearly £1,500. If the first payment was 
linked to a win, Im unable to see why it was paid back with five separate payments which 
came into the account spread over more than a week. It seems plausible that there were 
other winnings linked to a different account that was credited into this one.  
Typically, the fraudulent use of someones financial accounts continues until its stopped, or 
transactions are declined because they breached some form of limit. There werent any 
further attempts to use the card beyond its credit limit which I found unusual. I recognise that 
not all fraudsters act in the same way, but the principal reason for obtaining someones 
financial details is to steal funds and theyre unlikely to be worried about going over the 
credit limit of another persons card. 
So here we have the situation where V have taken payments from Mr Hs credit card and 
made numerous credits back into it. On the face of it, I cant see how someone other than Mr 
H can benefit from this. Ive looked at when the account with V was set up and its about a 
week before Mr H changed his address with NatWest, so whoever carried out these 
transactions knew a lot of information about Mr H, including his mobile phone number, 
address, date of birth, credit card details and its limit. There were no further transactions or 
attempts with V after it was reported to NatWest which is indicative that whoever made the 
payments knew theyd been reported.
Of course, its possible that some of this information was somehow obtained without Mr Hs 
knowledge. But, the level of details needed to set up the account and the timing of the 
transactions indicate a deep level of knowledge about Mr H. Ive also taken into account the 
fact that winnings were paid into Mr Hs account and the transactions stopped once Mr H 
reported it.
I think its difficult to conclude they werent authorised by Mr H without stronger evidence to 
the contrary. That means I think its more likely than not that Mr H carried out these 
transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did so.
Mr H commented about fraud warnings and why there were none, but as Ive made a finding that I think he was more likely than not responsible for making them, any fraud warnings  
would only have told him what he already knew. The absence of them doesnt change what 
happened and I dont think theyre relevant to the outcome.
I fully understand that Mr H will likely disagree with me and I acknowledge there are some 
conflicting factors here, but my decision is based on an objective assessment of the 
available evidence and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman