DRN-2434674
The complaint
Mr Q says Western Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Cashfloat provided to Mr Q between February and June 
2019. A summary of Mr Qs lending history is below:
 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 16/02/2019 24/05/2019 3 £400.00 £207.28
2 06/06/2019 outstanding 3 £400.00 £184.47
At the time of writing this decision, loan 2 is outstanding. 
The complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. In the most recent 
assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr Qs complaint and they didnt think any of the loans 
should have been given because had Cashfloat considered the information it had gathered 
on Mr Q it would have seen he was having difficulties managing his money.  
Cashfloat disagreed and said Mr Q had enough disposable income to cover the repayment 
costs of the loans. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Qs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Cashfloat says it carried out checks before it lent the loan to Mr Q. And has provided a copy 
of the results of these checks.  
Had Cashfloat properly considered the information it had gathered about Mr Q I dont think it 
would have lent to him. The reports Cashfloat have given us show that Mr Q had additional 
debts which Mr Q hadnt declared to Cashfloat. He also had accounts in debt management 
plans. This information was apparent both times Cashfloat did a credit check, in fact Mr Qs 
financial situation had worsened by the time he applied for loan 2. The number of loans he 
had in debt management plans had doubled. So, Cashfloat was aware from the information 
it has provided that it was likely Mr Q would be unable to sustainable repay not just his first 
loan but loan 2 as well.
I think this was shown in fact the balance for loan 2 remains outstanding. 
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Mr Qs complaint about both his loans. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr Q from loan 1, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr Q may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr Q in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr Q would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So Cashfloat should do the following:
If Cashfloat has sold loan 2 on Cashfloat should buy it back if Cashfloat is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Cashfloat cant buy the debt back, then Cashfloat should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr Q towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 1, not including anything Cashfloat has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr Q which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr Q originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr Q as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan. If this results in Mr Q having made overpayments then Cashfloat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Cashfloat should 
then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr Q. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr Q. Cashfloat shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Cashfloat has already written-off.
E) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Qs credit file in relation 
to both loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give   
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionIm upholding Mr Qs complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman