DRN-1382683
 
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy gave Mr S 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is contradictory or 
incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is 
most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the 
time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of Mr Ss policy but it has given a range (from £0.59p to 
£0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and I have used the higher cost for my analysis. 
The adjudicator said the sale took place it a meeting. Mr S disagreed, saying hed never 
attended a meeting with the bank. In the questionnaire he sent us, he recalled it was on the 
phone. The bank no longer has the records to confirm where the sale took place  but it has 
agreed to review the sale as an advised branch sale. This is to Mr Ss advantage as the 
bank is under an obligation to do more if the sale is advised. Apart from deciding whether 
advice was provided, or not, where the sale took place does not have a material impact on 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says the PPI must have been added without his consent, he always made sure he 
didnt have PPI. I cant know what was said during the sale but Ive looked at the available 
paperwork from the sale. On Mr Ss credit card application PPI was listed in a section 
headed Optional Features with the instruction Tick if required. And it was selected on the 
form Mr S signed indicating that he wanted it. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss comments, 
but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact 
what he recalls.  On balance, I think its most likely Lloyds made Mr S aware the PPI was 
optional, and he agreed to take it out.
Its likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means Lloyds had to make sure it was 
right for him. And based on what I know of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr S 
has told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 12 months for all 
successful accident and sickness claims. It also gave him 12 months redundancy cover. 
This would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from his 
employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr S said he had around £2000 in savings. The PPI would have allowed him to use these to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working. Or to keep them intact for his future needs. 
He also said he had life and critical illness cover, and a death in service benefit. But these 
products offer a different type of protection and wouldnt help with his monthly credit card 
repayments in the same way as PPI. 
So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr S if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy wouldve been 
competitively priced, and it was apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
- Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
- To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank 
plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman