DRN-3197287
The complaint
Miss M complains about adverse information HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reported to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) about her personal loan and about the level of service 
provided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020 Miss M asked HSBC for a Covid-related payment deferral on her loan because 
of the impact the pandemic had on her income. HSBC accepted this request and confirmed 
to Miss M her payment deferral would be for May, June and July 2020. I find this was fair 
and reasonable. I say this because it was in line with the guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide short term support for people directly impacted by the 
pandemic. A Covid-related payment deferral allowed customers to make no repayments for 
three months without their credit file being adversely impacted. 
The FCA later updated its guidance to say borrowers could apply for a further three-month 
payment deferral. This meant Miss M could have extended her payment deferral so it would 
include August, September, and October 2020. Miss M was in contact with HSBC in 
July 2020 because a loan payment had been taken in error, but due to a misunderstanding 
between the two parties a payment deferral extension wasnt put in place. This was 
corrected in September 2020 following further contact from Miss M. Im satisfied this put 
Miss M in the position she would have been in had everything worked out as it should.
Unfortunately, despite a payment deferral being in place for August, September and 
October 2020, arrears were reported to the CRAs. This was a mistake. And at the end of the 
payment deferral Miss Ms direct debit should have been reinstated and the arrears moved 
back into the loan  neither of these things happened. Over the following months there was 
much contact between Miss M and HSBC but it wasnt until March 2021 things were fully 
corrected. HSBC let Miss M down many times here.
Overall, Im satisfied by March 2021 Miss Ms account and credit file were in the position 
they should have been in. But HSBCs mistakes caused Miss M considerable distress and 
significant inconvenience. HSBC offered Miss M £400 compensation in January 2021. But 
as set out above, the matter wasnt resolved until March 2021. Considering things in the 
round, I consider £600 compensation  as recommended by the investigator  more 
accurately reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss M was caused. 
Miss M says HSBCs mistakes impacted her credit file which caused her to lose out on a job 
opportunity  one she was very much looking forward to. In her submissions to our service 
she said she believes fair compensation for this should be at least five years salary, at 
£50,000 a year. She later reduced this to, as a minimum, one years salary. Miss M will 
undoubtably be disappointed, but Im not going to require HSBC to compensate her for the 
alleged loss of a job opportunity. Ill explain why.
For me to fairly require HSBC to compensate Miss M in the way she has asked, I need to be 
satisfied the alleged loss exists, it was a direct result of HSBCs actions, Miss M did enough 
to mitigate the loss, and the loss was reasonably foreseeable to HSBC. I would also add that 
my role doesnt allow me to compel evidence from third parties, such as the alleged 
prospective employer. I therefore must make my decision on the evidence available to me, 
and where said evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, I must make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely. 
Miss M has provided a letter from her alleged prospective employer. Its dated 
26 November 2020 and says, in summary, the job offer made on 20 November 2020 has 
been withdrawn due to a credit check returning unsatisfactory results. It suggests Miss M 
look to rectify any credit file errors and theyll possibly conduct another credit check. Miss M 
says she ultimately lost out on the job opportunity.
I make the following observations:
- Companies House shows Miss Ms alleged prospective employer is/was a micro-
enterprise with one employee and it operates in the event planning market. My 
understanding is a company of this nature wouldnt ordinarily conduct credit checks 
on its prospective employees. And other than the contents of the letter, there is no 
evidence of a credit check being completed  Miss Ms credit file shows no searches 
between 20 and 26 November 2020.
- Miss M had an existing, personal relationship with the director of her alleged 
prospective employer. She hasnt hidden this. It does, however, shed some doubt on 
why Miss M was unable to explain to the director why her credit check returned 
unsatisfactory, or provide evidence from the director to explain HSBC was solely 
responsible for Miss M losing out on the job opportunity  something HSBC invited 
her to do. Ive seen no strong and compelling evidence from the alleged prospective 
employer beyond the letter dated 26 November 2020. 
Miss M is claiming significant compensation and the onus is on her to prove her claim. In the 
absence of strong and compelling evidence, and given my observations as set out above, 
Im not persuaded I can fairly require HSBC to pay her what she asks.  
I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss M. HSBC let her down repeatedly over a long time, 
at what must have already been a difficult time for Miss M. Although Im not requiring HSBC 
to pay her what she asks, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and require it to pay her fair 
compensation, which in my view is £600.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Miss M £600 compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss M £600 compensation, in 
total, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman