DRN-2730018
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr H. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. Lloyds sold Mr H the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The sale took place about 21 years ago and, not surprisingly, there are no documents 
surviving about the sale of the PPI. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely 
fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when 
considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr H has said the PPI was added without his consent. He says he refused the PPI, but it 
was added to his account anyway. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Mr Hs complaint 
on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Lloyds prove it didnt do something wrong, especially 
when it was so long ago  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it 
probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. Mr H 
has said what he remembers happening but, given how long ago this was, its quite possible 
he hasnt remembered all the details  in the same way that he told us, in the form he filled 
for us, that he doesnt remember how the PPI was sold to him (such as by phone or in a 
meeting) or whether Lloyds gave him advice about taking the PPI. 
So I cant say that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr H now believes. 
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mr H, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Hs employment sick pay. And it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr H more 
financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr H wouldnt need to fall back so soon on 
other resources, such as the family help he mentions.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially 
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this 
because, in his circumstances, its unlikely that full information would have made the PPI 
seem less useful. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman