DRN-3607356
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unreasonable
increased his premium on his pet policy after the first year. He thinks this is because of the
extent of the premium discount he was given when buying the policy as a new customer.
Reference to RSA includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr R bought his pet policy underwritten by RSA to start on 25 January 2021. Its a lifetime
cover up to his chosen vet fee limit per year. Mr Rs premium was £263.11. On renewal RSA
charged him £526.22 and Mr R then cancelled his policy and complained.
RSA said its policy documentation explained clearly that premiums for this type of lifetime
policy can increase over time, more when the policyholder has made a claim which Mr R did,
and which RSA paid. It disagreed the premium increase was anything to do with any
discount since the discount given to Mr R as new customer wasnt significant.
Mr R remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view
RSA could have done more to explain how lifetime pet policies could increase and that RSA
should pay Mr R £100 compensation. RSA disagreed so Mr Rs complaint was passed
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2022 and I said the following:
I do understand this will disappoint Mr R but I do consider the policy documents plus 
the associated documents did adequately explain why premiums might increase and 
more specifically that they would also increase if Mr R made a claim in the policy 
year, which he did.
First in the renewal invite sent to Mr R on 31 December 2021, RSA said the 
following:
Why do pets cost more to insure as they get older?
Like us, as pets get older, sadly they're more likely to get ill. In fact, our claims 
data shows that the cost of looking after your pet's health doubles every four 
to five years. That's why your renewal price increases each year and your 
excess will increase when your pet turns nine, even if you haven't had to 
make a claim.
Unfortunately, once a pet has been taken ill, in general they're more likely to 
get ill again. That's why, if a claim is paid, the price you will pay next year can 
double. Its important you budget for renewal prices to increase as your pet 
gets older. How much they go up is different for everyone and depends on 
things like your pets breed, their age and health, and there is no limit to how 
much your renewal price can increase over time.
Further in the Insurance Product Information Document which would have been 
available to Mr R before he bought the policy, it said the following right at the 
beginning of the document:
What is this type of insurance?
Pet insurance is an annual contract that helps you pay for the cost of vet 
treatment if your pet is ill or is injured. This policy gives you £7,500 vet fees 
each year. It provides cover, for ongoing or one off conditions, illnesses and 
accidents. This means treatment can continue year after year with no time 
limit on how long a claim can last as long as you renew your policy with us 
and theres no break in cover. Pets cost more to insure as they get older, as 
like us, with age they are sadly more likely to get ill. That's why its important 
you budget for renewal prices to increase each year, how much they go up is 
different for everyone and depends on things like your pets breed, their age 
and health. Once a pet has been ill, they are generally more likely to get ill 
again. That's why, if a claim is paid, the price you will pay next year can 
double and there is no limit to how much your renewal price can increase 
over time. Your excess will also increase when your pet turns nine.
Lastly in the policy document itself on page 6 under the heading Understanding and 
using this policy it says the following:
.
Cats and dogs like humans are more prone to illness as they get older and 
their likelihood of needing treatment increases.
In fact, our claims data shows that the cost of looking after your pets health 
doubles every four to five years. Thats why your renewal price increases 
each year and your excess will increase when your pet turns nine, even if you 
havent had to make a claim.
Unfortunately, once a pet has been taken ill, in general theyre more likely to 
get ill again. Thats why, if a claim is paid, the price you will pay next year can 
double. 
Its important you budget for renewal prices to increase as your pet gets older. 
How much they go up is different for everyone and depends on things like 
your pets breed, their age and health, and there is no limit to how much your 
renewal price can increase over time.
If your premium, excess, benefits or policy terms and conditions do change, 
we will always provide full details to you before your renewal date.
..
I consider this is clear and adequate notification of how this policy works, the fact that
premiums can increase on lifetime policies and specifically here for Mr R, that the 
premium can double if you make a claim, like Mr R did.
Mr Rs premium was slightly more than double, and RSA has showed us the 
premium increase was done in accordance with its underwriting criteria. That means 
that if anyone else was in the same situation as Mr R was, having made a claim, their 
premium would have increased in the same manner. That also shows me that Mr R 
was not singled out or treated different and unfairly. Pricing underwriting guides and 
criteria are commercially sensitive information. So that I means I cant share it with Mr R as it cant be put out in the public domain, given we publish our decisions. But I 
am satisfied they were applied fairly and reasonably to Mr R given the circumstances 
of his claim.
Theres no evidence that the discount Mr R received on joining has affected anything 
in Mr Rs premium increase. The discount was relatively modest being a mere 10%, 
which I consider is fairly standard industry practice.
Lastly RSA has shown us it posted out Mr Rs renewal invite on 31 December 2021. 
On that basis it cant be held at fault with the postal delays in Mr R receiving it.
I also note Mr R has now changed insurers for his pet policy, so I dont consider hes 
been unduly prejudiced in any way.
Mr R made no further representations.
RSA said it agreed with my provisional decision and it pointed out the online journey Mr R 
had taken to buy this policy also mentioned several times that the premium would increase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, and with no further representations made, I see no reason to change 
from my view as I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman