DRN-1580249
 
The complaint
Mr W says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr W bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on our 
website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mr W says he wouldnt have chosen to take PPI, and considers the option mustve 
been hidden in Eggs credit card application process. Ive noted everything Mr W has 
said. But Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application 
process where PPI wouldve been offered to Mr W. This shows that he wouldve had 
to choose whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his 
application. Eggs record of the application data shows that Mr W selected the PPI. 
So from what Ive seen, I think Egg made Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and 
that he chose to take it.
Mr W says that he didnt need the PPI because he received generous benefits from 
his employer and wasnt likely to be made redundant. But Egg didnt recommend the 
policy to Mr W so it didnt have to check if he needed it or whether it was suitable for 
him. Mr W had to decide for himself whether the PPI was something that would be 
useful to him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr W wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. Mr W says he had good employee benefits, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to these. The policy was also competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman