DRN-2548394
The complaint
Your text here
What happened
Mrs C deposited a cheque for approximately £1,000 at her local Post Office in June 2020 to 
be paid into her account with Santander. After some time, Mrs C noticed that the money 
hadnt cleared into her Santander account, so she contacted Santander to ask about this.
Santander told Mrs C that there was a known issue with cheques being deposited with the 
Post Office at that time but were unable to provide more specific information about what this 
problem was or when it might be resolved. Santander did explain that if the money wasnt 
credited to Mrs Cs account within 28 days then the cheque would be recorded as missing 
and a replacement cheque would need to be deposited.
Mrs C wasnt happy with how Santander had responded to her concerns and so she raised a 
complaint. Santander looked at Mrs Cs complaint and noted that, at that time, the 28-day 
window had not elapsed and so they didnt know whether a replacement cheque would be 
required or not. However, Santander agreed that Mrs C had been inconvenienced by the 
cheque not clearing into her account so far and made a payment of £50 to her by way of an 
apology.
Following this, the 28-day period did elapse without the money clearing into Mrs Cs account, 
and this meant that a replacement cheque was required. Mrs C wasnt happy about this and 
so continued her complaint with Santander, who made a payment to Mrs C of an additional 
£25 to compensate her for the inconvenience of having to arrange a replacement cheque.
Mrs C still wasnt happy with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. While they understood that the 
issues surrounding this cheque would have been frustrating for Mrs C, they felt that 
Santanders response to Mrs Cs complaint, including the compensation already paid to her, 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and they didnt think it appropriate to ask 
Santander to do anything more than this. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied and noted that she wasnt in a position to ask the issuer of the 
cheque for a replacement, and this meant that she had effectively lost £1,000 because of 
Santanders error. So, the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs C feels strongly about this complaint. However, having thoroughly 
reviewed all of the information I have available to me, I find that I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for essentially the same reasons.
While I can sympathise with Mrs C if circumstances are such that she is unable to ask the 
cheque issuer for a replacement cheque in this instance, I dont feel that this is something 
that I can fairly hold Santander accountable for. This is because the reason that the cheque 
cant be reissued isnt based on anything that Santander have done or havent done, but 
rather its the result of circumstances personal to Mrs C that Santander werent aware of and 
over which they have no control.
I have therefore focussed my assessment of this complaint on the actions of Santander, both 
in how they initially dealt with Mrs Cs enquiries as to why the cheque had not yet credited, 
and her subsequent complaint.
I can understand how Mrs C must have been frustrated at what she felt was a lack of 
empathy from Santander when she first raised the issue of the missing cheque with them, 
and also Mrs Cs contention that if Santander were aware that there were issues surrounding 
cheque being deposited at Post Office branches then more could have been done to warn 
customers about this. 
However, there are several things I have taken into account when thinking about this 
complaint, not least of which is the challenging circumstances that consumers and 
businesses alike have faced this summer with regard the changes in working practices 
mandated by the ongoing pandemic. While this is not an excuse for poor service, it can 
explain why previously unproblematic procedures may encounter unexpected issues. 
In this case, Santander were aware of a problem with Post Office cheque deposits and 
appear to have been taking steps to resolve the issue. It also doesnt appear, from the 
information I have available to me, that the problem affected all Post Office cheque deposits, 
but rather was intermittent  for reasons Santander were working to understand and resolve. 
So, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Santander to have not issued a broad 
communication to its customers to avoid Post Office cheque deposits.
It does remain the case, however, that the cheque that Mrs C submitted was lost and that 
she was inconvenienced because of this. But having reviewed Santanders response to Mrs 
Cs complaint, I think that Santander have already responded fairly here. Santander have 
acknowledged that the standard of service they provided Mrs C could have been better and 
they have made payments totalling £75 to Mrs C by way of an apology and compensation. 
This seems reasonable to me, and I must note that it is commensurate with what this service 
would expect considering the circumstances here.
Ultimately, while I agree that Mrs C had a valid reason to make her complaint, I feel that 
Santander have already responded to that complaint in a fair manner. And, while I can 
sympathise with Mrs C that she has been unable to source a replacement cheque from the 
cheque issuer, as I have explained previously, I dont feel that this is something that I can 
reasonably hold Santander accountable for.
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any further 
action here. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting, but I hope that 
she can understand, based on what I have explained above, why I have reached the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.      Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman