DRN-2805705
The complaint
Mr L and Miss P complain that Taylormade Finance Ltd incorrectly administered 
their mortgage application.
What happened
In 2013, Mr L and Miss P arranged a new mortgage through Taylormade. As part of 
this, Taylormade set out it would provide them with a service for the lifetime of their 
mortgage, which included mortgage reviews. These were carried out in 2015 and 2017 
without any problems, but the review in 2019 wasnt conducted as expected.
In 2017, Taylormade set out that it would contact Mr L and Miss P in February 2019, but it 
didnt do this. Mr L has explained he contacted Taylormade in July 2019 when he hadnt 
heard from it and thats when the review began. Mr L and Miss Ps current mortgage deal 
was ending, and they wanted a new mortgage from 1 August 2019, so this didnt leave 
much time to complete a new application.
Mr L and Miss P spoke with Taylormade on 19 July 2019 to discuss a new mortgage deal. 
The fact find completed discussed both a 19-year term for the new mortgage and another 
term, which based on paperwork produced, appears to have been a 21-year term.
Mr L and Miss P signed for their new mortgage on 1 August 2019. After signing for the 
mortgage, they say they received their mortgage offer from Nationwide and saw theyd 
taken out a 19-year term. Mr L complained to Taylormade and said theyd wanted to apply 
for the 21-year term and hadnt agreed to the mortgage theyd been given. He was also 
unhappy about it not contacting him in good time for the review.
Taylormade didnt uphold Mr L and Miss Ps complaint. It said theyd agreed to the 
19-year term and that itd sent two emails to them, one for each term. But it didnt have 
paperwork to evidence a conversation with Mr L and Miss P showing their agreement to 
either term. However it explained that the paperwork it held: the mortgage offer; its letters 
to Mr L and Miss P; and a letter to them from their solicitor, all stated a 19-year term.
Mr L and Miss P brought their complaint to our service. They said Taylormade had only 
sent them information on a 21-year term mortgage and thats the email theyd replied to. 
They said theyd lost out financially as theyd paid a higher amount monthly than they 
wanted to. And theyd also had to pay a higher payment towards their previous mortgage, 
which took two weeks to be refunded, due to Taylormade not contacting them in sufficient 
time.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in early September 2021. I said I 
intended for Taylormade to pay Mr L and Miss P £150 for not meeting its commitment in 
relation to the mortgage review and the likely knock-on effect this had on the mortgage 
application.
I reached this conclusion based on a letter Taylormade sent Mr L and Miss P in June 
2017, which set out that it was next due to review their mortgage arrangements in 
February 2019. And this letter also set out that it would review their mortgage annually and 
write to them to ensure their arrangements remained competitive. No review was carried 
out by Taylormade in February 2019, despite this being part of the service it had offered 
Mr L and Miss P.
Mr L and Miss P said that they werent sent the email containing the costs and 
information in relation to the 19-year mortgage term. I accepted from the information I 
held that this email was sent, but said it was possible that for some reason it wasnt 
correctly delivered. And in any event, Id seen that Mr Ls response was to the 21-year 
term email, not the 19-year term email. So I was satisfied their intention was to take out 
the 21-year term mortgage.
Taylormade didnt contact Mr L and Miss P about their mortgage review in February 2019 
and instead started this review months later, much closer to the date their fixed rate 
ended. And I considered it possible that Taylormade did mistakenly put in an application 
for a 19-year term on the mortgage, rather than the 21-year term. This was because 
Taylormade had no evidence to support that, despite replying to the 21-year term email, 
Mr L and Miss P then went on to request the 19-year term instead.
However, I then considered what steps Mr L and Miss P took to mitigate their losses. And I 
thought they had opportunities to mitigate the financial losses they were now looking for 
compensation for.
I set out that Mr L and Miss P had a responsibility to know what was happening with their 
mortgage and so when their fixed rate was due to end. So while they shouldve heard 
from Taylormade months before they did, they also shouldve known their fixed rate was 
coming to an end during this time. While Taylormade did make a mistake, had Mr L and 
Miss P contacted it earlier rather than waiting until very close to this key date, collectively 
they wouldve had more time to complete the mortgage review.
Mr L and Miss P said they didnt receive the mortgage offer in advance of signing the 
documents for this mortgage, so had no idea that they were applying for a 19-year term. 
So I reviewed the paperwork we held which set out the mortgage term. Taylormade wrote 
out to Mr L and Miss P on 29 July 2019, summarising the call they had and confirming the 
mortgage term was for 19 years. Taylormade confirmed this was sent out by first class 
franked post.
Taylormade received the mortgage offer from Nationwide on 29 July 2019, the day it was 
generated. And Mr L and Miss Ps solicitor either received it on 29 or 30 July, as they 
wrote out to Mr L and Miss P on 30 July 2019 to confirm it had been received and that 
the mortgage had a 19-year term. Their solicitors confirmed this letter was also sent out 
by first class franked post. Mr L and Miss P signed the mortgage deed on 1 August 2019, 
so technically they shouldve been in receipt of at least two letters that confirmed the 
mortgage term by this date, even if they hadnt yet received the formal offer from 
Nationwide.
As a mortgage is a large financial commitment, I concluded it wasnt enough for Mr L and 
Miss P to rely on another party and not check what was being applied for before signing 
for it. And I considered they had the opportunity to realise what had been applied for  and 
ask for the mortgage to be amended if it wasnt what they wanted. Instead, they signed the 
mortgage paperwork without checking it.
I didnt dispute that Mr L and Miss P ended up with a mortgage term that wasnt what 
they wanted. But when considering compensation, I concluded that both parties had 
made mistakes in this case. Taylormade shouldve contacted Mr L and Miss P in relation to the fixed rate ending. And its possible that if it had, the correct term wouldve been 
applied for, as it felt likely that the short time frame to complete this mortgage before the 
fixed rate ended did impact both parties; and also likely contributed towards the incorrect 
term. But Mr L and Miss P also couldve contacted Taylormade. And they shouldve held 
paperwork that was clear on what they were applying for; and checked the mortgage 
before signing for it. So I said that £150 compensation was appropriate.
Taylormade responded to the provisional decision accepting it.
Mr L and Miss P disagreed with the provisional decision. They said all contact with 
Taylormade was done over the phone. They reiterated that they signed for the mortgage 
prior to receiving any documentation showing the figures, except the 21-year term email 
they replied to at the start. Mr L said he wanted the lower payment for cash-flow 
purposes and that a lower payment wouldve been beneficial when the pandemic hit. He 
said he was now faced with finding a new mortgage broker, as he couldnt trust 
Taylormade, which would cost him time and money.
The case has been returned to me for review and to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points Mr L and Miss P made in response to the provisional 
decision, but Im satisfied Ive already addressed these. I cant fairly hold Taylormade fully 
responsible for what happened. I understand the situation Mr L and Miss P say they were in, 
but I still conclude they ought to have done more to check what it was they were agreeing to. 
And their response hasnt changed that.
I understand that the pandemic will have impacted Mr L and Miss P and that a lower 
payment wouldve been more beneficial at that time. But as Ive set out above, I concluded 
that they had the opportunity to realise they werent getting the mortgage they wanted. So 
when they missed this opportunity, they agreed to the 19-year term and the monthly 
payments that came with this.
Ive considered whether Mr L and Miss P are due any compensation in relation to them now 
being faced with finding a new broker. But Im satisfied that this is a choice they are 
making, rather than something they have to do. And so no compensation is due to them for 
any inconvenience experienced by making that decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Taylormade Finance Ltd 
should make a payment of £150 compensation to Mr L and Miss P for not meeting its 
commitment in relation to the mortgage review. And the likely knock-on effect this had on 
the mortgage application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr L and Miss Ps complaint against Taylormade 
Finance Ltd. To put things right Taylormade Finance Ltd should arrange to pay them £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman