DRN-1639245
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy that Vitality Health Limited declined a claim they made on their 
private health insurance policy. Ill refer to all arguments as being made by Mrs M as she is 
the main policyholder. 
What happened
Mrs M has a private medical insurance policy and Mr M is a beneficiary of it. Mrs M has the 
local hospital option on her plan. In August 2018 Mr M injured his foot. He attended Accident 
and Emergency a few times before he was diagnosed with a LisFranc injury which needed 
surgery.  
Mrs M said that none of the four consultants Vitality provided her with details for could 
complete the surgery. So, given the urgency of the situation, she found someone who was 
able to do it and had the appropriate expertise. 
Vitality said that it would only cover 60% of the cost of the surgery because the hospital 
wasnt covered by the local hospital option. They said theyd only authorise treatment if, for 
example, a hospital on the local list didnt have the equipment. Mrs M says that wasnt 
communicated to her clearly.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Vitality had acted unreasonably 
as theyd acted in line with the policy terms and made Mrs M aware that theyd only cover 
60% of the bill before the surgery went ahead. She took into account a letter from the 
surgeon who had performed the operation but concluded that it didnt explain why the 
operation had to be carried out at that particular hospital. 
Mrs M didnt agree as she said Vitality told her they might authorise the surgery if she got a 
letter from the surgeon. She says Vitality didnt explain that shed need to prove the hospital 
shed chosen was the only one which had the equipment to do it. Shes raised a separate 
complaint in relation to this point. 
Mrs M also explained that this was a very stressful time and Mr Ms foot was swelling. She 
said they didnt have the luxury to spend weeks finding another surgeon as there would be 
severe problems if Mr Ms foot was left untreated. 
So I need to make a decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover emergency treatment. And the policy terms and conditions say:
If you have one of our hospital list options, you should only go to a hospital on your 
chosen list, as youre only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to 
a hospital thats not on your list, then youll have to pay 40% of the costs of your 
treatment (excluding your consultant fees)
And: 
Our liability under this plan is limited to paying for treatment or services in respect of 
eligible claims under this plan. The choice of provider of the treatment or services 
(provider) is your responsibility, except: 
If you are covered under our Consultant Select option, in which case your 
treatment will be provided by a hospital, consultant or therapist on our 
provider panel
For Lifestyle surgery benefits which must be arranged through a consultant 
group nominated by us. 
We make no representations or recommendations to you or any of your insured 
dependents regarding the availability and standard of any treatment or services 
offered or provided by any provider. 
. Before undergoing treatment, you should contact us to ensure the treatment is 
eligible under your plan, and is given by a consultant, therapist or complementary 
medicine provider recognised by us. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ms injury and I completely understand why it was a very stressful 
time for Mrs M as well. I can understand her wish to get Mr M treatment as soon as possible 
given the potential implications of his injury. However, it doesnt automatically follow that 
Vitality should pay the claim in full. 
Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think Vitality has acted unreasonably by declining 
to cover the claim in full. I say that because: 
Mrs M has the local hospital option. The surgery didnt take place at a hospital on her 
chosen list. So, in line with the policy terms and conditions, Mrs M needs to pay 40% 
of the costs
Mrs M said none of the consultants whom Vitality gave her details of would complete 
the surgery as it was complex and needed particular expertise. I think Vitality did 
give her reasonable information about the consultants who were specialised in the 
relevant general area of expertise and were covered by Mrs Ms hospital option. But 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Vitality to recommend a consultant for 
a very specific injury such as a LisFranc injury. So, I dont think this was a failing on 
Vitalitys part
In any event, the policy terms do make it clear that Mrs M is only covered for 
treatment at hospitals on her list and that the choice of provider is her responsibility 
as she didnt have the consultant select option and wasnt making a claim for 
Lifestyle SurgeryI think it was reasonable for Vitality to clarify why the surgery needed to take place at 
a hospital that wasnt on Mrs Ms list of available hospitals. But the surgeon hasnt 
provided a detailed explanation as to why he needed to carry out the surgery at that 
particular hospital 
The policy doesnt cover emergency treatment. It provides cover for planned in and 
outpatient treatment. So, whilst I can understand why Mrs M didnt want to wait to for 
Vitality to give her details of a different consultant, emergency surgery isnt 
something the policy covers  
Ive looked at the information in Mr Ms medical notes. The consultant who diagnosed 
the condition said that he was arranging for Mr Ms injury to be corrected on their 
trauma list soon. So there was the option to wait for NHS treatment and Mr M had 
been told it would happen soon
Mrs M went ahead with the surgery in the knowledge that Vitality had said they 
wouldnt cover all of the bill. Theyd told her that shed need to cover 40% of it. Im 
satisfied that was made clear before the surgery went ahead
I dont think Vitality gave Mrs M the impression the claim would definitely be covered 
and I think it was reasonably clear to her that if she went ahead with her choice of 
hospital she was likely to have to pay the balance 
Im aware that Mrs M has since raised a separate complaint about not being told that 
Vitality would have only covered the claim if a hospital on her list didnt have the right 
equipment. So, Im not addressing this point as part of my final decision. 
   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman