DRN-3500941
The complaint
Mr T and Ms Y have complained about their property insurer The Salvation Army General 
Insurance Corporation Ltd (SAG) in respect of a claim they made to it following a water leak. 
They believe it delayed the claim which caused upset and had knock on effects for their 
policy.
What happened
There was a water leak from the shower at Mr T and Ms Ys home and they made a claim to 
SAG in August 2020. The area dried out and after Mr T and Ms Y returned from a holiday in 
October 2020 SAG surveyed the property for repairs. 
Work was due to start in November 2020. But it was agreed that SAG would consider quotes 
from Mr T and Ms Y for the work whilst also looking into the option of appointing another 
contractor. A new contractor surveyed the property and the result of that was considered 
against quotes Mr T and Ms Y had provided. SAG felt it could do the work for less and 
offered its price for doing so or to do the work. Mr T and Ms Y agreed for SAG to do the 
repairs. 
The work was due to start on 1 March 2021 but late on the previous day the contractor had a 
positive Covid test. A third contractor was appointed to do the repairs. Work was due to start 
in April 2021 but didnt commence until late May 2021. It was completed in early June but 
Mr T and Ms Y had concerns about the quality of the work; they felt the shower had been 
reinstalled poorly, the hot and cold water werent working correctly and the shower tray was 
damaged. SAG considered the concerns. In October 2021 work to resolve the snagging 
issues was completed. 
Mr T and Ms Y were unhappy it had taken 15 months for the damage at their home to be 
resolved. They also noted that during the claim, when the policy had renewed in 
January 2021, their premium had increased by around £300. Further, after repairs were 
completed in October 2021, the policy was due to renew again in January 2022. However, 
their broker told them SAG had refused to cover them. They had found alternate cover but 
only at an increased rate. They felt that was partly to do with what they felt were excessive 
claim costs for the unreasonably prolonged claim which had been subject to poor repairs.
SAG accepted the claim had taken longer than expected which had caused inconvenience. 
It said it would waive the excess of £250. And it covered the costs incurred by Mr T and 
Ms Y when the works had to be cancelled in March 2021. But it felt it had acted reasonably 
regarding the pricing and renewal of the policy.
Following Mr T and Ms Y referring their complaint to us, our Investigator considered what 
had happened. She felt the claim had been prolonged, but by things outside of SAGs 
control. She felt SAG had generally handled things in a reasonable manner. Regarding the 
premium and renewal, she didnt think SAG had done anything wrong. So our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr T and Ms Y were dissatisfied. They noted that our Investigator had looked at the 
involvement of each contractor  but felt consideration needed to be given to the whole 
period of the claim. And, in that respect, they felt it had to be said that 15 months was far too 
long. They also felt it took too long for matters to resolve between June 2021 and 
October 2021. And all of it stemmed from SAGs loss adjusters initially setting the costs for 
work too low. Mr T and Ms Y explained that whilst they did have another bathroom at their 
home, not having had use of the shower in the main bathroom for so long had impacted their 
lives. Including theyd felt unable to have guests. Mr T and Ms Y said their broker had told 
them SAG had refused them cover and this meant theyd had to seek specialist cover, which 
was expensive. Their complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our Investigator, Im not upholding this complaint. I absolutely agree 
with Mr T and Ms Y that 15 months was a very long time for their claim to continue over. And 
I appreciate that the fact it was on-going all that time had some impact on them. But I cant 
just look at the time period alone and out of context. I have to look at the detail of what 
happened during that time and decide whether things were handled reasonably or not. 
I havent seen that the loss adjusters set an initially low cost for repair. Rather, as is often the 
case in claims, the loss adjuster and the first contractor discussed what work was needed to 
reinstate the property. This sort of negotiation is not unreasonable. But I also see that before 
it could fully resolve it was agreed for the contractor to be changed as well as for quotes 
from Mr T and Ms Y to be considered. In the circumstances I think that was a fair and 
reasonable way to move the claim along but it did, of course, mean that it would take time to 
get a new contractor on board and to consider quotes.
In that respect I see that SAG looked to manage doing those two things together. That 
meant that once quotes came in for Mr T and Ms Y, its new contractor had assessed the 
work. SAG offered its cost for repair to Mr T and Ms Y, but their quotes were more, so they 
asked SAG to go ahead with doing the work.
The work was booked in for 1 March 2021 but unfortunately didnt go ahead. I appreciate 
that the work being called off on the day it was due to start was immensely frustrating for 
Mr T and Ms Y. But I think it simply couldnt be helped. I know they only found out what was 
happening having called SAG, and I think it could have taken more care to update them. 
That would have alleviated a small amount of their frustration. But the news that work 
couldnt start that day, and now wouldnt be starting for the foreseeable future due to a 
significant change in the contractors Covid status, was always going to be upsetting. No 
matter when it was received. 
I think SAG responded reasonably to this situation. Whatever happened at this point delays 
were going to occur and they couldnt be avoided. But Mr T and Ms Y were given 
appropriate options to progress the claim and it was agreed for a new contractor to be 
appointed, initially it was felt this would be the quickest route to resolution. But the new 
contractor then also had a serious health event. The repairs were then undertaken and 
completed (barring snagging) in late May and June 2021. 
The problems with the repair work werent then resolved until October 2021. That period, 
looked at out of context, does seem unreasonably long. However, I note that once SAG was 
informed of the snagging issues it began considering them straight away. It considered detail 
received from Mr T and Ms Y in July and whilst its contractor defended the work it had done, re-work was agreed. I think SAG moving things on in this way at this time was reasonable. 
I can see that following this decision being taken, parts needed ordering and work was 
booked in thereafter. Its far from ideal that further work was needed and things took as long 
as they did at this time. But Im not persuaded the further work had been caused by any 
negligence on the part of the contractor. I think SAG acted reasonably and did what it could 
to move it on as quickly as possible.    
Having looked at everything that happened, I dont think SAG managed things badly. The 
claim was prolonged. But Ive explained, I have to think about what happened during that 
time, and importantly if I think the insurer did anything to fail the policyholder, or whether it 
should reasonably have done something differently to move things on. Im not persuaded 
I can say that about SAG here. Overall, I dont think the prolonged repair period was due to 
any failure of it or because it could have done something differently but didnt.
Clearly not being able to use the shower in the main bathroom for so long was inconvenient 
for Mr T and Ms Y. But as Im not persuaded that this was caused by any unreasonable 
delay or failure by SAG, I cant fairly make it compensate them.
I understand that the premium increasing was upsetting and frustrating for Mr T and Ms Y. 
especially as, at the time this occurred, work to reinstate their bathroom hadnt even started. 
However, open and on-going claims will often affect the premium charged by insurers when 
policies renew. It is an unfortunate consequence of having a claim like this. As Ive said 
above, I dont think SAG did anything wrong in the first few months of the claim. So I cant 
reasonably say it should have been resolved before the policy came due for renewal. And, 
even if it had, the resolved claim would still have at least likely affected the premium offered. 
As it is SAG has satisfied me that it priced the renewal for Mr T and Ms Y as it would for any 
other customer presenting the same risk factors. So it treated them fairly. Taking all that into 
account I cant reasonably require it to refund any of the additional premium.
I dont know what Mr T and Ms Ys broker told them about the renewal in December 2021. 
But I see the claim had resolved by this time and that SAG told the broker it wasnt prepared 
to continue to offer cover to Mr T and Ms Y. It says it has marked its file to show it declined 
to offer renewal. I think that was reasonable of it. No insurer is bound to keep offering cover 
each year. And, for that reason, an insurer declining to offer to renew a policy isnt quite the 
same as an insurer refusing an application for cover. That said, if Mr T and Ms Y are finding 
their options for new cover are being impacted because SAG wouldnt offer to renew their 
policy, that isnt something I can fairly hold against SAG. It was within its right to choose 
whether or not to offer to renew the policy, and it is not responsible for what other insurers 
make of that decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I do not make any award 
against The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman