DRN-2985449
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Mr B found a van he was interested in buying on an online marketplace hed bought vehicles 
from before. He felt the price was reasonable and checked the sellers information on the 
site. The seller had positive reviews in respect of previous sales. Mr B called the number 
provided and asked further questions about the van and delivery. Mr B asked the seller what 
it would take for the seller to remove the marketplace listing for the van. The seller confirmed 
there had been a lot of interest in the van so Mr B would need to pay half of the cost and the 
remaining sum could be paid on delivery. As Mr B and the seller didnt live near each other it 
wasnt possible to pay in cash, so Mr B agreed to a bank transfer and to pay the other half in 
cash on delivery. The full cost of the van was £3,000.
Mr B says that before making the payment he looked at the DVLA website and satisfied 
himself that the make, model and registration existed, and the vehicle was properly taxed 
and had a valid MOT. 
After Mr B had paid half of the cost of the van by bank transfer the seller told Mr B that 
another buyer had offered to pay the full price of the van, so the seller said hed refund Mr 
Bs payment. The seller went on to say that if Mr B wanted the van he could pay the balance 
before delivery. Mr B asked the seller to provide his address and noted the postcode 
matched the marketplace advert. He then agreed to make a second transfer of £1,500. On 
the agreed delivery day, the van didnt arrive, and Mr B was no longer able to contact the 
seller. He realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted Metro Bank.
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro Bank has refunded 
Mr B 50% of his loss as it says it could have provided him with better warnings when he 
made the payments.  Metro Bank hasnt refunded Mr B the rest of his loss as it says that one 
of the exceptions under the Code applies. It says Mr B paid for the van without having a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services or that the 
seller was legitimate. Metro Bank says this because:
- Mr B didnt pay on the online marketplace platform.
- Mr B didnt view the van before buying it.
- Although Mr B verified the vehicle existed he didnt take any steps to verify that the 
seller was the legal owner of the van.
The investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint felt Mr B had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment was for a genuine van and the seller was legitimate and explained 
why. Metro Bank disagreed and asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. It said that as Mr B had bought cars through the same 
marketplace before he should have been aware of their payment policy and that he shouldnt 
engage in any activity designed to complete or facilitate a transaction outside of the 
marketplace. Metro Bank also disagreed with an assumption made by the investigator in 
respect of why he thought it wasnt unusual for sellers to ask for a deposit and negotiate the 
price after the listing was removed (the investigates presumed this was to save a fee but 
Metro Bank said a fee would still be payable). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded all the money 
Mr B lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr B 
lost.
The money was taken from Mr Bs current account. It is not clear how Mr B would 
have used the money if Metro Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Metro Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date it declined his claim under the CRM Code to the date 
of payment.
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about whether Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me 
to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr B failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for Metro Bank to choose not to reimburse him under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Mr B felt the seller was legitimate as he had operated for several months and had 
positive reviews and ratings.
Mr B didnt see the van as the seller lived over 80 miles away and said he worked 
away from home during the week, so Mr B completed certain checks to satisfy 
himself the van he was buying existed, had a valid MOT and had been taxed. I 
appreciate these checks didnt demonstrate the sellers ownership of the van and that 
Mr B could have done more. But just because there were additional checks Mr B 
couldve undertaken doesnt automatically meant he didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief that the purchase was legitimate or that he acted unreasonably. This is 
especially the case given Mr B wasnt warned about scams of this nature. Buying 
cars sight unseen is increasingly common, and in all the circumstances I think its 
understandable that Mr B didnt undertake further checks, and Im persuaded he had 
a reasonable basis for believing he was buying a genuine van from a legitimate 
seller.  
There was nothing unusual about Mr Bs interactions with the seller. The seller was 
polite and knowledgeable about the van and did as he said he would in terms of 
removing the listing when Mr B paid the first £1,500. He also offered to refund the 
first payment Mr B made after telling him another buyer had offered to pay the full 
amount upfront, which helped to persuade Mr B he was genuine. With the benefit of 
hindsight, I consider the seller subtly pressurised Mr B in to making the second 
payment by saying that another buyer had offered the full cost of the van. But I dont consider it to be unreasonable that this didnt concern Mr B at the time. 
I dont believe that paying for the van through the marketplace it was advertised on 
would have made a difference in the circumstances of this case. I say this because 
the marketplace asks for payments to be made through it to be eligible for its money 
back guarantee. But the money back guarantee doesnt cover vehicle purchases. 
The marketplace provides safety tips for buying vehicles on it which includes advice 
about the price, inspection, being cautious about emails that seem to be from the 
marketplace, warranties or return policies, speed of payment and free shipping. The 
advice doesnt say a buyer should never pay by bank transfer and, as Ive already 
said, even if Mr B had used a different method of payment he wouldnt have been 
covered by the marketplaces money back guarantee. 
Mr B says hed bought a car on the marketplace some years before without any 
problems. His preference was to pay cash, but it wasnt possible to do so in this 
case. After this scam Mr B says he bought another van through the same 
marketplace but paid in cash. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Metro Bank has shown that Mr B made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payment was legitimate, and Im satisfied he wasnt 
grossly negligent for broadly the same reasons.  
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all the money that
was lost. So I think its fair that Metro Bank refund the remaining £1,500 Mr B lost, together 
with interest as set out below.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above I uphold the complaint and award Mr B £1,500 plus 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date Metro Bank PLC declined his claim under the 
Code to the date of settlement  less tax if lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman