DRN-2824690
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled a payment he made to one of its 
customers accounts, and its response to the dispute that resulted.
Mr L has also complained to his own bank, which sent his payment. I have considered that 
complaint separately. This decision considers his complaint about Lloyds only.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr L paid £350 by bank transfer from his own bank account to an account 
held by a Lloyds customer. He was paying for work to be carried out on his home - having 
selected a highly rated business on a recommendation website. He met the workman in 
person and negotiated what appeared a fair price for the work required.
The business carried out some work, but Mr L was not satisfied that all the agreed work had 
been completed, or with the quality of the work. He believes some damage may have been 
caused and has since had to pay other contractors to put matters right.
Mr L tried to contact the company again to report his dissatisfaction with the work - but he 
has been unable to do so. He located a limited company of the same name as had been 
given on the workmans business card - but that company disclaimed any connection to the 
business hed been dealing with. He registered his concerns with both the recommendation 
website and Citizens Advice (which in turn notified Trading Standards) but has not had any 
success in pursuing his dispute through those channels.
Mr L complains that Lloyds was at fault in crediting his payment to an account without 
verifying the payee name hed entered matched that on the payee account. When hed sent 
the payment from his bank, Mr L used the full name shown on the business card - including 
the suffix Ltd. Mr L considers Lloyds should not have credited the beneficiary account if it 
was held in any other name than exactly that which hed specified. If the account name had 
exactly matched this would indicate the business he dealt with was trading fraudulently - as it 
did not appear to have any connection to the real limited company of that name  and that 
Lloyds should not have opened the account. He asked Lloyds to either return the funds he 
sent, or to provide him with the account holders full name and address so he could pursue 
the matter as a civil dispute.
Lloyds says it looked into his concerns about the possibility of fraud or a scam but did not 
find any issues with the payee account. It did not agree it should return Mr Ls payment or 
otherwise reimburse him. Lloyds explained it was obligated to credit Mr Ls payment to the 
account number and sort code hed specified, and no requirement existed to verify that the 
payee name hed given to his bank matched that on the payee account.
Mr L didnt accept this outcome. Our investigator considered his complaint. She didnt think 
this was a scam. She didnt think Lloyds was incorrect in saying this matter was likely a civil 
dispute between Mr L and the business hed paid. She didnt find Lloyds was liable to do 
more here.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
the business name used on the business card hed been given wasnt legitimate - 
being suffixed Ltd  thus suggesting the firm had been trading fraudulently; 
if the name on the receiving account had matched then Lloyds must have set up 
the account negligently, because the account holder did not appear to have any 
connection with a limited company of that name listed on Companies House; 
Lloyds hadnt acted correctly in crediting an account without verifying the 
beneficiary name against the payee name hed specified to his own bank; and,
Lloyds should have been aware of the risk of allowing such a credit without name 
verification, and that the subsequent introduction of the Confirmation of Payee 
system demonstrated this.
Mr L didnt think it fair Lloyds was suggesting he should pursue a civil dispute against the 
business yet would not provide him with the account holders full name and address to allow 
him to do so. He says Lloyds should either provide this information or reimburse him itself.
I have been asked to review Mr Ls complaint about Lloyds and to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I have considerable sympathy for the frustrating situation Mr L now finds himself in. Mr L 
took prudent steps to ensure he was dealing with a reputable and reliable business, placing 
reliance not just on the recommendation website, but also meeting the business face-to-face 
prior to entering any contract. Hes incurred additional expense to rectify the poor quality 
work that was carried out, and is unable to now pursue a civil dispute because he has no 
access to valid contact details for the business.
While Mr Ls complaint does not stem from a direct customer relationship he holds with 
Lloyds, I can nonetheless consider the complaint because it contains the allegation that the 
matter was potentially fraudulent. The money was credited to the account number and sort-
code Mr L had intended, but Mr L says he was the victim of fraudulent misrepresentation 
concerning the name of the business. In other words, that hed been tricked or deceived 
when making the payment in good faith. This would be a form of Authorised Push Payment 
scam (APP scam).
Firstly, Mr L says Lloyds ought not to have credited his payment solely based on the sort-
code and account number. He considers it ought to have also checked the account name 
against that hed specified when he made the payment through his own bank. He believes 
that had it done so this might have uncovered concerns about the legitimacy of Lloyds 
customer.
I understand Mr Ls point here. He references the account name verification that takes place 
when a cheque is credited to an account, and questions why a similar process was not in 
force for bank transfers such as the one he made here. While a system permitting confirmation of payee on bank transfers has since been made a 
requirement by the regulator, at the time Mr L sent his payment it had not yet been 
implemented. The obligations placed on Lloyds at the time by the relevant regulations were 
that it must credit the recipient account as designated by unique identifiers. 
In Mr Ls bank transfer payment those unique identifiers were the sort code and account 
number that hed asked his bank to use in making the payment. The payee name would be 
captured by his bank for Mr Ls later reference, but it was not part of the process used to 
identify the correct recipient account. 
In other words, Lloyds was required to credit the beneficiary account specified by the sort 
code and account number. I am satisfied it did so correctly. I do not find it at fault for not 
matching the payee name Mr L had given to his bank against the beneficiary account name 
 it simply was not required to do so at the time.
I have however considered whether Lloyds acted fairly considering Mr Ls specific allegation 
that this matter might have its roots in a fraudulent misrepresentation or a scam. 
The use of the suffix Ltd on a business card where the business concerned is not a limited 
company is clearly incorrect  particularly so where that coincides with the name of an actual 
limited company. The details of the business advertised on the recommendation site do not 
contain that suffix but I understand that Mr L may have been reassured by its use on the 
business card that he might have some access to recourse if things didnt work out. While 
the incorrect use of that nomenclature might constitute an offence, I dont consider it 
necessarily proves fraudulent intent.
The business Mr L had contracted with did carry out some work for him (albeit 
unsatisfactory). The reviews shown on the recommendation site are generally positive and 
reflect satisfaction with the work. That could lead to the conclusion that Mr L was unfortunate 
here, rather than the victim of an intentional fraud.
Lloyds carried out an investigation when it received the original report of fraud from Mr Ls 
bank. Lloyds says that investigation did not support the allegation that its customer was 
conducting their account in a fraudulent manner or that Mr Ls payment had resulted from a 
scam. It has provided me with evidence relating to the investigation it carried out. While I 
cannot share the detail of that evidence here, I can reassure Mr L that I have reviewed it 
thoroughly and I am satisfied Lloyds investigated appropriately and acted fairly in reaching 
the outcome it did. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont find the evidence here sufficient for me to 
conclude this was most likely an Authorised Push Payment scam. Nor does the evidence 
persuade me it is more likely than not that the business Mr L dealt with was acting with 
fraudulent intent. In saying that I recognise there is evidence here of sharp business practice 
and Mr L has evidence showing that the work required to be redone and put right. But that is 
not the same as finding fraudulent intent.
In short, Mr L doesnt say he accidentally sent money to the wrong account nor do I find he 
was tricked into doing so through an APP scam. Lloyds credited the account based on the 
unique identifiers it was sent by Mr Ls bank  the sort code and account number. In doing 
so I find it met the relevant regulatory requirements and the obligations it owed to Mr L as a 
payment services user.
The obligations Lloyds has to its own customer prevent it from disclosing that customers 
information in the way Mr L would like it to. I cannot fairly require it to breach those 
obligations by disclosing that information to Mr L or to his bank, much as I appreciate how greatly this would help Mr L.
I also cannot fairly find Lloyds liable to reimburse Mr L for the money he paid. The 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) provides additional protection for 
victims of APP scams but is not applicable to civil disputes (as I consider this to be). Neither 
do I otherwise find Lloyds liable.
Again, I am very sorry to disappoint Mr L. He is in the extremely frustrating position of trying, 
after the event, to obtain valid contact details for a business hed contracted with in good 
faith. But I do not find Lloyds to have been at fault here, and I cannot fairly find it liable to 
reimburse him or require it to provide him with the information he has requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman