DRN-1783834
The complaint
Ms B complains that a text message she received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc was 
misleading and caused her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 10 October 2019 Ms B received a text message from RBS which stated that her mobile 
number had been updated as requested the same day. The message also urged Ms B to 
contact RBS urgently if she hadnt requested this change.
Ms B said she received this text alert while she was at work. She stated that, because she 
hadnt asked RBS to change her contact number, the content of the text message caused 
her significant concern because she felt an unauthorised third party had accessed her 
account and compromised its security.
As a result of receiving the text message Ms B said she left work in order to attend her 
nearest RBS branch. Staff there explained that the notification Ms B had received was due 
to a recent account being opened. 
But Ms B remained unhappy about the text message she had received. She felt the content 
was misleading. So, she complained to RBS and asked it to pay compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset shed been caused.
When RBS responded to Ms Bs complaint it explained the message had been automatically 
sent as Ms Bs telephone number had been added to a savings account that had recently 
been opened in her name. It stated the wording of the message was a generic template RBS 
used to communicate with customers. So, it wasnt bespoke to Ms B. While, RBS apologised 
if the text message it had sent had caused alarm and distress it didnt feel it had made an 
error and it didnt uphold her complaint.
Being dissatisfied with RBS response to her complaint Ms B referred it to our service. She 
said shed previously complained to another bank, which had subsequently admitted it made 
an error in sending a similar text alert. She explained that bank had compensated her £30 to 
recognise her trouble and upset. And she wanted our service to uphold her complaint and 
tell RBS to pay the same amount of compensation.
Our investigator assessed the evidence Ms B and RBS had provided but they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they thought RBS had acted fairly and 
reasonably. And they didnt think it had made any errors. But Ms B disagreed and asked for 
her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. I can assure Ms B and RBS that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the upset and concern Ms B was caused as a result of the text 
message she received in October 2019. Given that she hadnt asked RBS to update her 
contact details, I can appreciate why she became concerned that the security of her account 
had been compromised. And I can understand why that would have caused distress and 
inconvenience. 
However, while I empathise with Ms B my role is to assess whether I think RBS made a 
mistake, or treated her unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having 
thought carefully about everything theyve both said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. 
Ill explain why.
RBS explained to Ms B in branch, and again in its final response to her complaint, that the 
text message she received was sent as a result of it updating her newly opened savings 
account with her phone number. Im satisfied this was a reasonable step for RBS to take  
its in everyones interests for a customers contact details to match across every account 
held by them.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear that when RBS updates or adds contact 
information to a customer account it automatically generates a customer notification to 
confirm that this has taken place. In this case RBS informed Ms B of this by text message.
RBS said the text message Ms B received used generic wording. While I can understand 
why Ms B was unhappy with the wording that was used a business is entitled to determine 
its own policy, and use its discretion, insofar as how it communicates with its customers and 
the wording it uses when doing so.
I recognise that the text message Ms B received caused inconvenience and upset. As I 
explained in the background to this complaint, she left work to attend a branch in order to 
seek reassurance regarding the security of her account. But, as our investigator has already 
explained, our service doesnt regulate banks. And we cant comment on whether a 
business policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. So, I cant tell RBS what 
wording to use in communications with its customers.
Finally, Ms B has drawn our services attention to the outcome of a similar complaint she 
raised with another bank. While I understand why she would be keen for me to be aware of 
her previous complaint we look at the individual circumstances of each complaint we receive 
to decide what we think is the fairest way to resolve it. That almost inevitably means that 
cases which might be similar to a complaint made by a customer historically could well result 
in quite different outcomes. And our service wouldnt consider a previous resolution to be a 
precedent or comment on it.
Ive taken on board all of Ms Bs comments about what happened and I understand she feels 
very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. But, for the reasons already outlined, I 
think RBS has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im 
not persuaded it made an error here. So, I wont be asking it to do any more.
I realise Ms B will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with RBS informally, can do for her.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman