DRN-3032157
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Lloyds Bank Plc charged too much when 
it repaid its fixed rate loan.
One of Ms directors, Mrs B, brings the complaint on Ms behalf. She is assisted by her 
broker.
What happened
Ms representatives told us:
In December 2014 M borrowed just over £145,000 from Lloyds. The loan was at a 
rate of 6.47%, and was fixed for 25 years. 
At the time, Lloyds advised Ms directors that the Bank of England base rate would 
increase from 0.5% to 5.0%.
Ms directors now believe that the interest rate it paid to Lloyds was probably double 
what the market fixed rate was, and they consider that M should not have been 
advised to take the loan.
On 27 February 2020 M repaid the loan in full. The total cost to repay the loan 
included an amount Lloyds described as a funding break cost of around £30,000.
Lloyds has not explained how  a £145k loan, after £60k of repayments have been 
made,  [could] need £161k to settle?.
To resolve the complaint, they would like Lloyds to refund the £30k penalty they 
paid. They believe this amount simply represents profit to Lloyds, and is not in any 
way reflective of a cost to the bank.
Lloyds told us:
In December 2014 it primarily dealt with a Mr K. Mr K was one of Ms directors at the 
time, but he resigned in 2016.
It is satisfied that it gave Mr K clear information about the fixed rate loan, including 
the possibility that early repayment would incur significant break costs. 
During late February 2020 it received several calls about this loan from a person who 
refused to answer its security questions. Sometimes the caller wanted information 
about Ms loan, and sometimes the caller wanted to instruct Lloyds to break the loan. 
Lloyds says it cannot be certain who this caller was, but it did not disclose any 
information to them and it did not act on their instructions.
It is satisfied that it processed Ms loan repayment, along with all appropriate 
charges, exactly as it should have done.
One of investigators looked at Ms complaints, but did not uphold them. Ms representatives 
did not accept her findings, so the matter was referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. I said:
Breaking the loan
Ms representatives believe that Lloyds delays in breaking the loan ended up costing 
M several thousand pounds. They are also concerned that the break cost might not 
represent a true cost to Lloyds  and in particular that Lloyds might be profiting from 
Ms circumstances. 
Lloyds accepts that there were some delays in breaking the loan, but it says those 
delays were not its fault. 
I think there are two issues here:
Did Lloyds make a mistake when it applied break costs to Ms loan?
Did Lloyds cause a delay in breaking the loan?
Ms directors have suggested that they think there must be some mistake with the 
break costs. They havent been specific about what they think went wrong, but they 
have pointed out that the break costs increased as time went on.
I havent seen anything to suggest Lloyds made a mistake in applying break costs. 
But I do think there has been a misunderstanding on Ms representatives parts about 
how the break cost is calculated. I think there might also be confusion about the loan 
itself.
Many borrowers are familiar with regulated mortgage contracts (a type of loan used 
by many consumers in order to purchase a home to live in). Regulated mortgage 
contracts often have fixed rates, and where they do there will usually be an early 
repayment charge, or ERC. If a lender charges an ERC for a regulated mortgage 
contract, that lender is required to disclose to the consumer  in cash terms  what 
the maximum charge might be. 
It is very common for ERCs in regulated mortgage contracts to decrease over the 
term of the loan. For example, if a loan has a 5 year fixed period the ERC might be 
5% in the first year of the loan, 4% in the second year, 3% in the third and so on. 
Borrowers are able to calculate the ERC in advance, and it often goes down over 
time. It does not usually go up and down on a day-to-day basis.
Here, Ms loan was not a regulated mortgage contract, nor was it any other kind of 
regulated product. It was a commercial loan, and so the rules for regulated mortgage 
contracts did not apply. Ms loan was also fixed for 25 years, which is much longer 
than is usual in consumer contracts. Break costs for longer term fixed rate loans are 
usually (although not always) higher than break costs for loans over shorter terms.
The actual break cost on a loan like Ms depends on the markets expectations of 
future interest rates over the remaining term of the loan. That means it wasnt 
possible for Lloyds to provide Ms directors with a calculation showing how the cost 
had been worked out.Given the way break costs are apply to this type of loan, I am not at all surprised that 
those costs fluctuated during February 2020. I am also not surprised that the costs 
went up by several thousand pounds even as the loan balance itself reduced  that is 
a reflection of costs in the market. Given that the fixed rate was over such a long 
term, even very small changes in future expectations of interest rates can have a 
significant impact on break costs. There is nothing here that leads me to suspect that 
Lloyds has made an error in applying break costs.
Moving on to the issue of whether Lloyds caused a delay in breaking the loan  I am 
satisfied that it did not. There was a short delay, but I dont think that delay was 
caused by Lloyds.
Lloyds told us that in late February 2020 it received several calls about this loan from 
a person who refused to answer its security questions. Sometime the caller would not 
give their name, and sometimes the caller would not provide relevant account 
numbers. 
I dont know how many calls were made to Lloyds by people associated with M. Ms 
directors have said there were more calls than Lloyds has been able to trace. I think 
that is likely  but I also think it would be unfair for me to criticise Lloyds if it was 
unable to identify calls from a person who would not give their name.
It is clear from the evidence Lloyds has provided that the caller was extremely 
frustrated with the bank, and that the caller felt Lloyds was inserting entirely 
unnecessary hoops into what should have been a simple process. But on the other 
hand, the caller was not following the process Lloyds had set out. I dont think there 
was anything unreasonable about Lloyds process, and I will not criticise Lloyds for 
deciding not to take instructions from a person it could not identify.
Lloyds did not break the loan until it was satisfied both that it had a valid instruction to 
do so (from an identified person authorised to act on behalf of M) and that M had 
enough funds in a specified account to cover the outstanding loan balance and the 
break costs. I consider that Lloyds acted reasonably, and I do not intend to order it to 
refund the increase in the break costs.
The original sale
There is a dispute here about whether Lloyds advised M to take out this 25 year fixed 
rate loan. Mrs Bs recollection is that Lloyds did give advice, and that it said base 
rates would rise. Lloyds says this was not an advised sale and it merely provided 
information.
The documents produced at the time of the sale suggest that no advice was given. In 
signing the loan agreement, Mrs B and Mr K confirmed that they had not received or 
relied upon any advice given by the Bank. I have not seen anything that persuades 
me to set aside that signed statement. On balance, I think it unlikely that Lloyds did 
advise M to take out the loan. 
In hindsight, M would now be better off if its directors had chosen to take a fixed rate 
loan over a shorter period. But I note that Mrs B and Mr K both signed Lloyds 
commercial fixed rate application form to say:
I confirm I am unlikely to repay the lending early, in full or in part, during the 
fixed rate period and understand that if I do repay early during the fixed rate period I will be liable for break costs, as described in the product profile, 
which depending on market conditions could be substantial. An indicative 
tailored break cost illustration has been provided within the quote schedule to 
show how interest rate market changes could affect the amount of break 
costs I may be liable for.
I am therefore satisfied that Mrs B and Mr K told Lloyds in 2014 that M did not (then) 
intend to repay the loan within the fixed rate period.
Lloyds says it dealt primarily with Mr K when the loan was sold. The documentary 
evidence supports Lloyds on that point. Its clear that Mrs B doesnt fully understand 
what M bought, but Lloyds wasnt required to ensure that she understood the terms 
of the loan. What it was required to do was to give clear information to the company. I 
therefore need to look at what Lloyds did to tell M about the possibility of break costs.
I can see that Lloyds provided Mrs B and Mr K with an illustration showing:
how interest rate market changes could affect the amount of break costs that 
you may be liable for in addition to the loan principal, on full or partial early 
repayment of the loan. The first illustration is based upon a scenario where 
the Replacement Fixed Rate (as defined in the Product Profile) is 1.0% lower 
than the Cost of Funds of your loanPlease be aware, that the Replacement 
Fixed Rate can fluctuate without a change to the current Bank of England 
Bank Rate.
The illustration, produced in 2014, showed that if the Replacement Fixed Rate was 
2% lower than the Cost of Funds of Ms loan in February 2020, the break costs would 
be in the region of £31,500. The actual break costs were just under £30,000. In the 
circumstances, I think Lloyds did do enough to warn M that it might have to pay that 
level of break cost if it were to repay the loan early.
I dont know how much profit (if any) Lloyds made on the sale of this loan. But it is a 
commercial enterprise, and there is nothing wrong in a bank making a profit as a 
result of its activities. It would be wrong for Lloyds to mislead its customers, or to 
overcharge them  but I have not seen anything to suggest that it did either of those 
things here.
Neither party provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman