DRN-2238057
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-Smart) has asked 
them to pay their commission fee, and breach of contract charges for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  and default charge claims. Mrs T says she hasnt received any 
compensation.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mrs T in my decision.
What happened
Mrs T said she signed a letter of authority (LoA) in 2019 asking Bank Smart to act as her 
representative to see if she was due any compensation from several of her lenders. Mrs T 
said Bank Smart told her in December 2019 that her claim against her lender, Ill call J had 
been successful, and that she was to be awarded compensation of £831.05. From this Bank 
Smart said theyd deduct their fee of £249.32. 
But Mrs T said shes never received any compensation and has since been bombarded with 
invoices asking her to pay Bank Smarts fees, including breach of contract charges. She said 
Bank Smart has said the amount she owes is now £831.05, the amount of her 
compensation. Theyve said shed been in breach of her contract for failing to provide 
requested information.
Mrs T said Bank Smart had told her she needed to verify her details with one of her lenders 
Ill call B. And Mrs T said shed visited her local branch to do this. But because of Covid 
restrictions she hadnt been able to chase this up.
Bank Smart said Mrs T had signed an LoA in 2012, and another LoA in 2019. And that 
theyd asked her on several occasions to verify her details, which she hadnt done. They said 
their fees and charges were justified.
Mrs T didnt agree and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Bank Smart hadnt been clear as to what their fees and charges were 
for. Shed asked for a breakdown but Bank Smart hadnt provided her with the details. Our 
investigator didnt think Bank Smart has acted fairly or reasonably in their actions with Mrs T. 
She said the trouble and upset caused by this had been considerable. To compensate Mrs T 
she said that Bank Smart should waive any breach of contract charges, provide Mrs T with  
a breakdown of her successful claims and fees theyve charged. And to pay Mrs T £200 for 
trouble and upset.
Bank Smart didnt agree saying their breach of contract charges were justified. They asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs T s frustration has it hasnt been made clear exactly what services 
Bank Smart has provided for her, or what claims they have made and charged her for. Mrs T 
doesnt dispute that she authorised Bank-Smart to act on her behalf. But complains
that she is being asked to pay fees for compensation she has yet to receive. Mrs T has said
she has been bombarded with paperwork, threats of breach of contract and unfair added
charges. In reaching my decision Ive looked at whether Mrs T had agreed and understood 
what services Bank Smart was offering. And to see whether their terms and conditions have 
been clear. Ill also consider whether Bank Smart have acted fairly and reasonably in their 
dealings with Mrs T.
I can see three LoAs have been signed. The first in July 2012, this was signed by both Mr 
and Mrs T and was for a specific lender Ill call L. The LoA states at the top that this is in 
connection with PPI/Penalty Charges Multiclaim. There is an added note made by either Mr 
or Mrs T that says:
Think we already did, but could you check please
As this doesnt relate to any of the invoices Mrs T has been charged with or any success 
claim fee. I dont think Bank Smart can justify presenting this LoA as their authorisation for 
subsequent successful claims for other lenders. 
The second LoA was signed solely by Mrs T in May 2019, and this indicated several lenders 
for loans and credit cards. And is headed Letter of Authority  Default charges
From this LoA I can see Bank Smart sent in the same month a subject access request to 
lender B They responded by asking for Mrs T to verify her account.
I can also see that Bank Smart has sent us their terms and conditions. But there isnt any 
date to say which LoA these terms and conditions relate to. And only the LoA signed in July 
2012 has the pre fix before signature that says:
I have read, understood and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions
But Ive looked at the terms and conditions that Bank Smart has sent to us and these are 
clear about a fee for a subject access request  usually £10. And their success fee for when 
the claims process has been started. As lender B needed to verify Mrs T under the subject 
access request, I dont think the claims process had begun. So,  I dont think Bank Smart 
can say Mrs T is in breach of her agreement when a claim for default charges is yet to be 
made.
The third LoA is dated July 2019 again signed only by Mrs T, and is specifically for lender J 
and relates to a PPI claim. I havent seen an offer of compensation from lender J. But Bank 
Smart say an offer of £831.05 was made in October 2019. And Mrs T says Bank Smart told 
her in December 2019 shed been awarded £831.05, and asked for their success fee of 
£249.32.Bank Smart said their success fee for this was £249.32.But the Financial Guidance and 
Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management Regulator to introduce a fee cap 
for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018  before Mrs T signed the 
agreement with Bank Smart for lender J.  From this date, claims management
companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. 
So I calculate Bank Smarts success fee to be £199.45. This would leave a balance owed to 
Mrs T of £631.60. And as she hasnt had the benefit of this amount since December 2019 
Bank Smart should add 8% simple interest from then until the payment is made to Mrs T.
This has been a very distressing time for Mrs T, I can see she has tried to resolve this with 
Bank Smart through a variety of channels. I dont think its unreasonable to have expected 
Bank Smart to have been able to provide a detailed breakdown of the claims theyd 
submitted for Mrs T. As well as being able to show any successful or unsuccessful claims 
theyd made and the success fees theyd charged. So I agree with our investigator that Mrs 
T should be paid £200 for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And ask Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-Smart) to
cancel any breach of contract charges
pay Mrs T the balance, after their success fee of 20% plus VAT has been deducted 
from her compensation awarded by lender J, plus *8% simple interest; and 
pay Mrs T £200 for trouble and upset.
*If Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-Smart) considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman