DRN-2888294
The complaint
Mr B complains that Crowdstacker Limited unfairly delayed the transfer of funds held in his 
individual savings account.
 
What happened
Mr B had an innovative finance individual savings account (IFISA) with Crowdstacker. He 
wanted to move £5,000 from his IFISA to another ISA he had with a bank I will refer to as A. 
Mr B says he posted a transfer form to A on 26 May 2020. Then on 8 June, he contacted A 
for an update. A replied on 15 June to explain theyd sent the form onto Crowdstacker.
So Mr B contacted Crowdstacker on 15 June too  he explained that A had told him theyd 
sent the transfer request over but he could still see the cash in his Crowdstacker ISA, so he 
asked when the transfer would be completed. Crowdstacker replied the next day to explain 
theyd received the transfer form from A by post on 10 June. Theyd begun working on it and 
would have it completed within 15 working days. 
Mr B contacted Crowdstacker again on 1 July. He said more than 15 working days had 
passed since theyd received the form, and more than 30 working days had passed since he 
sent the form to A. Yet the money still hadnt transferred. He asked how they intended on 
compensating him for what he felt was an unreasonable delay. Crowdstacker replied the 
same day to acknowledge his concerns and treat them as a complaint.
The transfer was completed on 2 July, which was the 16th working day. This cleared on 
6 July. Crowdstacker issued their final response to Mr B on 6 July. They confirmed the 
transfer had been completed and explained that while they aim for 15 days, the impact of the 
pandemic had slowed them down. They offered Mr B £10 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this  he said HMRC rules for cash ISA transfers say the entire 
process should be completed within 15 working days. While his transfer was IFISA to ISA as 
it was only cash moving he said he saw no reason for why extra time would be required. 
Crowdstacker replied on 20 July and said there are longer timeframes for IFISA transfers but 
they do try their best to meet cash ISA timeframes. Mr B said he wasnt happy with the £10 
offer but Crowdstacker calculated that the potential loss of interest to be less than what 
theyd offered. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked for our help. His complaint was looked into by one of our 
investigators, but he didnt agree Crowdstacker had done anything wrong. He said the terms 
of the IFISA referred to a minimum transfer time of 30 days. But that from a customer service 
point of view, they aimed to match cash ISA timescales. While that aim had been missed by 
a day, he felt the compensation offered was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree. He thought facts had been ignored and rules and regulations had been 
interpreted in a superficial way. A summary of his points is as follows:
He didnt think Crowdstackers IFISA terms were satisfactory for their intended 
purpose.
While the terms referenced 30 days, this isnt permitted within ISA regulations. 
He shared the guidance allowing 15 days for cash ISA transfers and noted that this 
gave only five days for the former ISA manager to act.
He felt our investigator had implied Crowdstacker had the full 30 days to act which 
wasnt reasonable. 
The funds were moved on 6 July, so the transfer took 41 calendar days. But he also 
noted A had backdated the arrival of the cash to 2 July.
Crowdstacker had said the new provider will liaise with us directly to arrange the 
transfer which can take up to 15 working days, he felt this was a clear and definite 
undertaking, not just an aim.
Crowdstacker said theyd received the request on 10 June and that they aim to 
process applications as soon as practicably possible after receipt, however please 
rest assured that this will be within 15 working days, as per HMRC rules. Again, 
Mr B said this was another clear and unambiguous confirmation and a contract 
between him and Crowdstacker.
Crowdstackers final response was contradictory as it acknowledged his expectation 
of 15 day completion hadnt been met but also said they werent upholding the 
complaint.
The timescales were promises, not aims  the terms and conditions were overridden 
by their communication which promised to meet the 15 day window.
The delay made him worry that As time limits for funding accounts might be missed, 
or that the interest rate might fall. 
While he didnt expect a large financial settlement, he didnt want the matter swept 
under the carpet. 
Another transfer hed done took 10 days so this showed how badly this one was 
handled. 
Our investigator thought about the points Mr B had made, but wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. He pointed out that Mr B had been referring to cash ISA transfers, yet his was an 
IFISA. By his calculations, the transfer took 36 days but Crowdstacker only got the request 
from A on 10 June  so theyd handled the transfer within 22 days and we wouldnt find them 
at fault for any delays by A or the postal service. 
Our investigator considered the fact that by the time A got the request to Crowdstacker, 15 
calendar days had already passed. From all hed seen, he still felt the £10 offered was 
sufficient compensation as it surpassed the amount of interest that would have been paid 
had the money been transferred earlier. 
Mr B remained unhappy. He said the money transferred on 6 July not 2 July, and concern for 
those four days was on monetary loss. He recognised that missing out on 20p of interest per 
day would require a 50 day delay to qualify for compensation in excess of £10. He pointed 
out that the £10 offer was said to be a goodwill payment, not compensation, and this was 
dishonest and designed to allow Crowdstacker to ensure the complaint was considered to 
have been upheld. He thought some of his points had been ignored but did acknowledge 
hed have liked A to have processed the request more quickly, he did however feel 
complaining about both firms appeared pointless. He felt the vagueness of IFISA rules left 
him in a weak position. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has highlighted, there is indeed guidance from HMRC and the Governments 
website about the time it should take to transfer money and investments between ISAs. With 
regards to cash ISAs, the guidance says these should take no longer than 15 working days  
and this is further broken down to whats expected of the new and former managers.
But Mr B wasnt transferring money between cash ISAs  he was transferring between an 
IFISA and an ISA. The fact he was moving cash itself doesnt mean Crowdstacker had to 
meet cash ISA deadlines. 
Within another of the documents Mr B highlights, it says transfers should take no longer than 
15 working days for those between cash ISAs, but also that it should take no longer than 30 
calendar days for other types of transfer. Mr Bs transfer was one of these other types of 
transfer. So the 30 day timescale applied. 
But importantly, the guidance is just that  guidance. Its not mandatory. It doesnt say 
transfers must happen in those timescales  instead that they should do. And we must 
recognise that Mr Bs transfer was being handled last summer during a period where a 
number of businesses were adapting to different ways of working throughout the covid 
pandemic. I think consideration must be had for that and the postal delays that were felt for 
some time.
Looking more closely at what actually happened here, Crowdstacker received the request 
from A on 10 June. This was 15 days after Mr B says he sent the form to A on 26 May  so 
by then, around half of the allowable time had already passed. 
Mr Bs transfer went on to surpass the 30 days as Crowdstacker transferred the money 16 
working days after theyd received As request  and it appears the funds took a further two 
working days to clear. I recognise Crowdstackers emails to Mr B did refer to completion 
within 15 days, but I dont agree that this necessarily overrode their terms at 7.5.3 as 
referred to by our investigator. I do, however, appreciate they didnt meet the expectations 
they set by saying rest assured that [the transfer] will be within 15 working days. So from 
everything Ive seen, there were delays here, but I dont think it would be fair to say they 
were entirely attributable to Crowdstacker. 
When things go wrong, we look to consider the impact the error or problem might have had 
on the customer and how we might be able to put things right. But taking everything into 
account, I think the £10 offered is enough to compensate Mr B here. I say that because 
putting £5,000 into his ISA with A earned him less than 20p per day. So even if I were to 
hold Crowdstacker at fault for causing the entire delay, at most Mr B would have lost out on 
11 days of growth totalling £2.20. 
I dont underestimate Mr Bs strength of feeling, nor that this has been frustrating for him. But 
all things considered and on balance, Im satisfied that what Crowdstacker have already 
agreed to do is sufficient to recognise any delay they may have caused. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Crowdstacker Limited have already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So, Im not requiring them to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman