DRN-3325356
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the alternative accommodation Ageas Insurance Limited 
(Ageas) provided when they claimed under their buildings insurance policy following an 
escape of water.
Mr and Mrs P jointly held buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. Their representative, 
Mrs C, handled the complaint on their behalf, so Ill also refer to her throughout my decision. 
Any actions referred to will include those taken by other representatives of Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
The claim itself is not in dispute, but Mr and Mrs P dont think Ageas handled the alternative 
accommodation (AA) element of their claim well. Looking at the evidence Ive noted the 
following key points:
Ageas said the repairs would take around four to six months, but they took over nine 
months.
Ageas confirmed that it didnt keep Mr and Mrs P updated with progress of their claim 
as often as it shouldve done.
Despite being asked for a small house or bungalow with garden due to health 
reasons, Ageas provided a fourth floor flat.
Although theres no evidence that Ageas was responsible for the second leak, it 
didnt give adequate consideration to Mr and Mrs Ps existing AA after Mrs C said it 
wasnt suitable.
So, Ive thought about why Ageas didnt provide AA more suited to Mr and Mrs Ps needs. 
The national lockdown caused restrictions.
Ageas said rental accommodation was scarce, especially for tenants with pets  the 
pets were eventually housed in a shed in Mr and Mrs Ps garden.
Providing different AA after the second leak wouldve been short term and more likely 
to be a hotel than another rental property.
Overall, the circumstances were unfortunate and resulted in most of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs P experienced. To protect their privacy, I wont go into detail 
about Mr and Mrs Ps vulnerability, but Ageas was aware of their circumstances and I cant 
see that it made any significant attempt to provide more suitable AA. I accept that there were 
unusual circumstances regarding the lockdown, and the family said the flat was suitable to 
begin with, but I havent seen anything to suggest Ageas reconsidered its suitability when 
the repairs continued beyond the original expected timeframe. Given that Ageas was aware 
of Mr and Mrs Ps vulnerability, it wouldve been fair to consider different AA.
Ageas confirmed it didnt keep Mr and Mrs P updated with progress of their claim. While I 
understand that more than one family member dealt with the claim on their behalf, as Ageas 
said, it couldve included all representatives in the email updates it did provide. Mr and Mrs P 
were living in fourth floor accommodation unsuitable for their needs so I can see why 
updates wouldve been important to them. And without those updates, I can see why that 
wouldve caused them additional distress and inconvenience beyond what might reasonably 
have been expected. Im satisfied that the failure to keep Mr and Mrs P fully informed 
represents a shortfall in service which warrants compensation.
I know Mrs C found this matter distressing and she is understandably worried about Mr and 
Mrs P. Im sorry that they had to experience this at an already difficult time. But I must keep 
in mind that there would always have been significant inconvenience simply because of the 
water damage involved and making an insurance claim of this nature even in ordinary 
circumstances, let alone during a pandemic. I cant fairly hold Ageas responsible for those 
circumstances.
Ageas doesnt think compensation of £500 is warranted. However, I cant see any evidence 
that it made any offer to compensate Mr and Mrs P for the failure to keep in contact with 
them at reasonable intervals throughout their claim. And given their specific circumstances, I 
think greater care couldve been taken to ensure any inconvenience was kept to a minimum. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that the proposed compensation is reasonable.
Mrs C doesnt think £500 is enough. Its fair to point out that Ageas did seek approval for the 
AA from the family in the early stages, and I can see that it repaired the second leak as part 
of the same claim. Ageas also confirmed that it considered the snagging issues after Mr and 
Mrs P moved back in so that they were back home sooner, rather than waiting for the minor 
repairs to be completed. If they believe repairs are outstanding, Ageas will consider them on 
receipt of evidence that they relate to the claim.
In summary, its reasonable to say Ageas didnt handle the AA and communication elements 
of the claim as well as it couldve done, but much of the inconvenience caused was due to 
the insured peril itself. Therefore, Im satisfied that compensation of £500 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Ageas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr and Mrs P £500 compensation for the avoidable, additional inconvenience 
and distress caused due to the prolonged stay in alternative accommodation and lack 
of progress updates.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman