DRN-4276530
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) delays and 
service, following a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A was having some building works done at her home, when her builders discovered that 
there had been a slow leak. She contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Mrs A described that 
following the claim Lloyds handled the claims process, very poorly on several levels. She 
complained to Lloyds, and it accepted that the standard of service that it offered was far 
below than it shouldve been. It offered and paid Mrs A, a total of £1,700, for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Mrs A was given her referral rights. And as she remained unhappy with the amount of 
compensation Lloyds paid, she referred a complaint to our service. 
Mrs A said that her life had been badly affected, due to the poor service she experienced 
from Lloyds. In addition to the substandard work from the Lloyds contractors, Mrs A said that 
this whole event had been disruptive for all her family. She explained that it had caused 
issues with her neighbour (as the contractors had damaged their property). So, she sought a 
far greater amount of compensation and felt that compensation of well over £5,000, would 
be fair. So, she referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
found that some of Mrs As complaint was out of time and so was unable to consider it. 
He said he had no doubt that Mrs A had experienced a poor level of service from Lloyds. Not 
least poor workman who caused further damage to her and her neighbours properties. And 
that there had been some avoidable delays. He acknowledged that Lloyds had caused a lot 
of distress and inconvenience to Mrs A. And felt that Lloyds had accepted that the standard 
of service had been poor. However, he concluded that the amount of compensation that 
Lloyds had paid Mrs A (£1,700), was in line with our services guidelines. So, he was unable 
to recommend that it increase its offer further. 
Lloyds accepted the view, Mrs A did not. She felt that the amount of compensation was 
paltry in comparison to the amount of distress and inconvenience that the whole event 
caused to her and her family, as well as to her neighbour. Although, Mrs A didnt disagree 
with the points our investigator made and considered, she felt that the compensation ought 
to be increased to adequately reflect the damage that was caused to her over the course of 
nearly a year. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs A, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Our investigator raised and fully considered several points when he issued the view. Those 
points, I note Mrs A didnt disagree with. So, the main and only issue I think for this 
complaint is the level of compensation that Lloyds offered. Namely, £1,700, that Mrs A 
believed failed to adequately compensate her, for all the trouble and upset that was caused 
to her.
Mrs A accepted that some of her complaint couldnt be considered, as it had been brought to 
our service out of time. Lloyds issued its first final response on 4 May 2022. Mrs A had six 
months in which to refer the complaint to our service. This means she had until 4 November 
2022. She did not refer this part of her complaint until 11 March 2023, which exceeded the 
six-month rule. Nor did she provide any exceptional circumstances, as to why I might be able 
to consider this part of the complaint. Additionally, Lloyds didnt give our service permission 
to look at this part of the complaint, that was referred out of time. Accordingly, Im unable to 
consider any complaint issues from 4 May 2022 to 4 November 2022. 
However, I am able to consider the complaints that were the basis of the subsequent final 
responses (dated 30 November 2022 and 23 February 2023) as they were referred to our 
service within the time limit.   
Lloyds accepted that the level and standard of service that it provided to Mrs A was poor and 
it rightly compensated her for the errors it caused. 
Both parties are fully aware of the extensive background to the complaint, so I dont intend to 
repeat this in full here. But for completeness the instances of poor service are outlined 
below:
Lloyds appointed contractors caused damage to Mrs As property, as well as that of a 
neighbour. Further leaks were caused to her home as a result of poor workmanship. 
And damage was caused to a neighbours wall by the contractor drilling into it.
The additional leaks caused by Lloyds contractor led to loss of utilities for a day and 
night. There was also a slight delay in Lloyds rectifying the damage caused, but 
thankfully this was done the next day. 
Lloyds contractor drilled through a neighbours wall. This not only added further 
distress to an already stressful situation but led to Mrs A having a fractured 
relationship with her neighbour, as a result. 
There were avoidable delays during the course of the claim. Most notably between 
June and August 2022. When Lloyds failed to appoint a contractor on time. The 
reason it gave was due to an administrative error. Consequently, Im satisfied that 
this was an avoidable delay. 
Mrs A experienced delays when choosing materials due to supply chain issues. I 
note that she also had to chase Lloyds to progress the claim. 
There were also a few dates when contractors scheduled work had to be adjusted. 
But there was back and forth between the parties. And on some occasions, I dont 
think that Lloyds were to blame. For instance, a contractor was ill on one occasion. 
And a dangerous emergency occurred at another property. 
But Lloyds did progress and actively worked on the claim. Although, there were 
delays and they did cause some inconvenience. I also understand that Mrs A was frustrated by Lloyds actions. And I must say any 
claim of this magnitude is going to involve a homeowner in some inconvenience. So, 
its not unique for claims of this nature, to take some time. 
Ive next considered whether the £1,700 paid is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im fully aware and understand Mrs As strength of feeling, the frustrations, distress and 
inconvenience she suffered from, as a result of Lloyds mishandling of her claim.  But our 
service is tasked to consider the evidence presented by both parties on an impartial basis. 
And the standard we apply when assessing the merits of the complaint, is on a fair and 
reasonable basis. I should point out that as were not the regulators we are unable to tell 
businesses how they operate. But where businesses make errors, we are able to award 
compensation. And we would say that the award would be fair overall, to put right the impact 
the mistakes have had on the consumer. 
We are guided by our guidelines on amounts of compensation that we are able to 
recommend. 
Im acutely aware that Mrs A is seeking a far greater amount of compensation. Although she 
hadnt made a specific specification as to the actual amount she seeks, shes asked me to 
consider the constant disruptions caused, the damage to her home and that of her 
neighbours, the length of time it all took and the carelessness. So, Ive carefully reviewed our 
guidelines on compensation. 
I think Lloyds mistakes (the avoidable delays and poor workmanship), caused Mrs A 
sustained distress and severe disruption to her daily life, that typically lasted about a year. I 
ought to mention, that although the complaint can only consider the problems that Mrs A 
experienced from around November 2022 (therefore not quite a year) Im satisfied that the 
impact of the mistakes, fits within this bracket. Consequently, I think Lloyds has been fair in 
its offer and payment of £1,700 compensation. I will explain why I think this is fair.
In order for me to consider a higher award, I would need to see evidence, that could include 
where the effects of the mistakes are irreversible or even had a lasting impact on someones 
health. Mrs A hasnt provided me with enough evidence to support this. 
I accept the frustrations and distress she experienced, but all of the work within her home 
has been completed. So, I cant agree that the mistakes made were irreversible. 
Further, I havent been provided with any medical evidence that supports that the mistakes 
made by Lloyds had a lasting impact on Mrs As health. 
In addition, although damage was caused to Mrs As neighbour, I cant consider 
recommending compensation to reflect this, as Mrs As neighbour cannot be considered an 
eligible consumer. In other words, they are not party to the complaint. In any event, Lloyds 
has confirmed that its contractor has now contacted Mrs As neighbour to resolve any issues 
privately. 
I acknowledge Mrs As strength of feeling about this complaint and I do empathise with her 
position.  I understand the reasons why she referred the complaint to our service. But, 
having applied our guidelines on compensation awards, I think that Lloyds acted fairly in 
offering and paying the £1,700. And Im unable to increase the level of compensation as 
there isnt enough evidence to award a higher amount. Therefore, Im not going to tell Lloyds 
to do anything further here.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman