DRN-3265578
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled direct debit 
indemnity claims. Mrs C also complains about the service and information provided by RBS. 
What happened
In November 2021 Ms C raised indemnity claims with RBS for TV licence fees claimed by 
direct debit since 2012. Ms C says that, under the Direct Debit Guarantee RBS was obliged 
to immediately refund the payments without investigation. 
RBS dealt with the claim in two parts. Direct debits claimed between January 2016 and April 
2020 were refunded three days after the claim was raised. RBS contacted Ms C to ask some 
questions about direct debits claimed between January 2012 and December 2015. RBS 
asked why Ms C was looking to claim older payments back and for details about whether 
shed cancelled the direct debit or contacted the merchant. 
Ms C has explained she made a number of calls and spent a lot of time on the phone 
dealing with the claim. Ms C complained about the way her claim was handled and the 
service provided. During the process of complaining, the case handler ended a call with Ms 
C. 
RBS issued its final response on 18 November 2021 and agreed errors had been made 
when dealing with Ms Cs claim. RBS apologised that Ms C had been given different 
information over the phone and paid her £175 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms C referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. They 
thought RBS had dealt with Ms Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms 
C didnt accept the investigators view of her complaint so her case has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. In this decision, Im looking at RBS 
actions in relation to Ms Cs direct debit indemnity claim made in relation to TV licence 
payments. 
I understand Ms Cs view is that RBS shouldve issued refunds for all the payments she 
raised going back to 2012 without further investigation. Ms C says that approach is in line 
with the Direct Debit Guarantee. It says: 
- If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building society
- If you receive a refund you are not entitled to, you must pay it back when the 
organisation asks you to
RBS says its entitled to ask for more information before a refund is processed. Whilst I 
understand Ms Cs reading of the Direct Debit Guarantee, I think its fair to note the section 
above starts by saying if an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit RBS says 
its seeking to establish whether an error was made by asking Ms C for information about her 
claim. Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, but I dont agree RBS has acted unfairly by asking her 
for more information before issuing the refund. 
I understand Ms C is upset by the information provided by RBS and the way her claim was 
handled. In addition, Ms C has explained the complaint handler ended a call. I dont doubt 
what Ms C has told us or that she was upset at the way RBS handled her case. I note RBS 
apologised in its final response and paid Ms C £175. I agree the service provided shouldve 
been better and Im satisfied Ms C was caused some distress and inconvenience. In my 
view, the £175 compensation and apology RBS made reflects the impact of the service 
provided on Ms C and is a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
As RBS has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman