DRN-2773659
The complaint
 Mr J complains that his mobile phone provider, Sky UK Limited (Sky), gave him incorrect 
information which led to his mobile phone insurance claim being declined and his policy 
cancelled.  
What happened
Mr J has a contract with Sky for mobile services and equipment. In December 2020 he 
dropped his phone and broke the screen. He wanted to claim on his mobile phone insurance 
held with a separate provider. But he needed to get proof of purchase from Sky to do this.
So Mr J contacted Sky on 17 December 2020 to ask for the required proof of purchase for 
his phone. But Sky sent the wrong identification number.
Mr J called Sky again the next day as he noticed that the identification number hed been 
provided with was different to the information shown on his app. Sky told him theyd try to get 
the correct information for him by escalating his issue to their technical department. 
Mr J called again that day to repeat his request. He was again told his problem would be 
looked at by the technical team. But Sky didnt do this.
On 21 December 2020, Mr J again called Sky to ask for the correct information. But the call 
dropped. He called back and explained what information he needed. He told Sky that his 
insurer had declined his mobile phone claim as fraudulent. Theyd done this because the 
identification number Sky had provided didnt match the claim details. This call ended 
abruptly so Mr J had to call a third time to get his request for the correct information 
escalated. He was told someone would call him back within 72 hours.
Mr J later complained to Sky that as theyd provided him with the wrong information his 
insurance policy had been cancelled and his insurer had refused to deal with him again. 
Sky upheld the complaint and offered £30 to apologise for the inconvenience theyd caused. 
Mr J didnt accept this. He didnt consider this was enough compensation under the 
circumstances. So he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. She felt Sky hadnt done enough to put things 
right. She recommended that Sky provided Mr J with a letter to explain theyd supplied the 
incorrect proof of purchase which Mr J could take to his insurance company as evidence. 
She considered that an additional £100 would be fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Sky accepted our investigators findings. But Mr J didnt reply. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Sky accept they made a mistake when they sent the wrong identification number for Mr Js 
phone. They offered him £30 for the inconvenience caused by their error. 
But it seems that the error led to Mr J having his insurance claim declined and recorded as 
fraudulent.
I can see that Sky did ask Mr J to provide evidence of his declined insurance claim. And of 
the insurance being cancelled due to the incorrect identification being provided. But I cant 
see that it was provided. 
It would clearly be upsetting to not only have a claim declined but to have it declined for 
fraud. And then have the insurance policy cancelled. So I dont consider that the £30 Sky 
offered as an apology reflects the impact of their error on Mr J. 
I also consider that Sky need to take steps to ensure Mr J can show his mobile phone 
insurer that his claim wasnt fraudulent. While I agree that Sky cant control the actions of Mr 
J's insurance company, they should take reasonable steps to show them that they made the 
proof of purchase error. 
I agree with our investigator that a further £100 compensation would better reflect the 
amount of phone calls Mr J had to make to Sky given they didnt escalate his issue as theyd 
promised. And the distress of having his insurance claim declined and policy cancelled.
Putting things right
I require Sky UK Limited to:
Provide a letter for Mr J to share with his mobile phone insurer explaining they 
provided the incorrect proof of purchase for Mr Js claim
Pay Mr J a total of £130 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
I understand that Sky have already applied a credit of £130 to Mr J's account. If Mr J would 
prefer to receive the compensation as cash, Sky should pay him in cash instead.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Sky UK Limited to take the actions in the Putting things right section above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman