DRN-3135390
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Nationwide Building Society removed Bill Payment payees (Bill Payments) 
from his two Nationwide current accounts. He says Nationwide didnt let him know this would 
happen and it caused him problems and a great deal of inconvenience. 
Mr S wishes for Nationwide to apologise, reinstate the Bill Payments and pay him 
compensation for the trouble caused. 
What happened
A more detailed background of events was set out in my provisional decision issued to both 
parties on 20 August 2021, so I wont repeat everything here, but instead will summarise 
what happened. 
During late 2018 Nationwide reduced how long a customer could retain details of unused Bill 
Payments on an account and so Bill Payments were removed from Mr Ss accounts. Mr S 
relies on this account feature to manage things whilst away from home as he is often in 
hospital, so removing Bill Payments hed already established was very unhelpful to him. 
Because of this Mr S raised a complaint with Nationwide.
 
Nationwide said theyd done nothing wrong by changing retention periods for unused Bill 
Payment information and there was nothing to prevent Mr S being able to set up Bill 
Payments again. As Mr S didnt accept Nationwides conclusions he referred the matter to 
our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint as they didnt find Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in the circumstances and they noted Mr S had not suffered a financial loss. As Mr S 
disagreed with the investigator the complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued 
provisional findings to both parties on 20 August 2021. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Ive provided a summary below. 
Mr S said he wasnt told about the coming changes to the Bill Payment retention 
period, but I explained the terms of the account allowed for Nationwide to make such 
changes to the services they provide to their account holders, and they werent 
required to personally and directly tell their customers about these particular 
changes. 
Nationwide said the changes were communicated to their customers through the 
online bank and their website. But unfortunately, they were unable to provide an 
example of what their customers wouldve seen. Mr S said Nationwide provided more 
clarity online after he complained, but I explained it was difficult for me to know what 
information was made available and when. 
While Nationwides submissions suggested a Bill Payment could be reinstated in one 
simple step to reactivate the mandate, this appeared at odds with submissions from 
Mr S and seemed to be something that could be done with Standing Orders only 
(which did not form part of the complaint). 
I noted online it explained how to set up Bill Payments. And a screenshot showing 
cancelled Bill Payments provided to me in the submissions also showed that it was 
explained to customers how to reinstate cancelled Bill Payments by setting up a new 
payee. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr S provided a full breakdown of all the Bill Payments that 
had been cancelled. I considered Mr Ss example of a cancelled Bill Payment to 
Company H, and cross referencing the available submissions said I couldnt exclude 
the possibility there was a mandate that could relate to this payment. 
There was not enough evidence to suggest that when Mr S first opened the accounts 
he was told Bill Payments would remain in place indefinitely. I said it was difficult to 
know what Mr S wouldve done if he had not been told this and I noted he still has the 
accounts. 
Overall, I concluded it was for Nationwide to decide their unused Bill Payment 
retention periods. And while some submissions were not entirely clear about what 
had happened  so it was difficult to know if an error had occurred - there was no 
evidence that Mr S had financially lost out from a mandate not being paid and it was 
still possible for Mr S to set up new Bill Payments.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
Nationwide replied to my provisional findings but did not provide anything further for me to 
consider; or correct or clarify any of the information set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr S replied in detail to my provisional findings to explain why he disagreed with them. 
Rather than list all the reasons why Mr S has disagreed with my provisional decision, I 
instead will deal with them collectively in the body of my decision below to explain why my 
decision remains that his complaint should not be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my provisional decision Mr S said he felt the extent of the problem had not been 
recognised and that his health had not been properly considered. 
Mr S told us he is unwell and must make frequent visits to hospital for his health and hes let 
us know that through the pandemic he has had to take particular care with his health as he is 
vulnerable. Mr S has not shared the details of his condition with us and nor does he need to 
in his case, but Id like to reassure him that by not referencing Mr Ss health in more detail 
this was not to diminish the challenges he experiences with his health. I was mindful in my 
considerations that having access to the Bill Payments account feature was important to him 
- which I said in my provisional decision. Mr Ss most recent submissions of statements for 
one of the accounts further supports his reliance on the Bill Payment feature as well as 
Standing Orders. So I do not doubt the importance of the Bill Payment feature to Mr S.
 
Mr S said there was no mention of the investigators involvement in the case or reference to 
concerns hed raised about the investigator. However, there was no need to do this. My 
consideration of the case is separate to the investigators review. And my considerations are 
about Mr Ss complaint, not the investigator. In reply to my provisional decision Mr S didnt accept that Nationwide was able to make the 
changes in question to the accounts and said he shouldve been personally notified of the 
changes. However, as Ive previously explained, having reviewed the terms and conditions 
of the accounts it is possible for Nationwide to make changes to the services they provide to 
their customers and the changes in question in this case are not required to be directly 
communicated to customers individually. So Im unable to find that Nationwide did anything 
wrong by not telling Mr S directly that they were going to change the retention period for 
customers unused Bill Payments. 
Mr S said no consideration was given to the legal basis for his position. I would first note that 
this office is not a court of law, and while we take into account the law we consider cases on 
the basis of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the individual case. I realise 
Mr S doesnt think its fair for Nationwide to be able to make the changes in question, but Mr 
S agreed to the terms of the accounts when he first took them out and as Ive previously said 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Nationwide have applied the terms of the accounts unfairly 
for Mr S.  
Part of Mr Ss reasons for disagreeing with my provisional decision is that he feels the 
assessment was unbalanced because it accepted that Nationwide could not provide 
information previously on their website due to the time that has passed. Mr S didnt think this 
was fair and referenced some examples of Nationwides inconsistencies to support his 
concerns about Nationwide. 
I understand Mr Ss frustrations with some of the submissions from Nationwide and that he 
finds Nationwide staff members have been contradictory or not informed. But I think its 
important to note that in this case I need to consider if Nationwide did anything wrong in 
relation to how the Bill Payment feature of Mr Ss accounts was administered. 
It is disappointing that Nationwide was unable to provide a copy of what customers wouldve 
seen online when they made their changes. But it may help Mr S to understand this service 
is not the financial regulator, so we do not fine or punish businesses or review their 
processes. Our service reviews the individual case to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of that case. And where its not clear what has happened, then we can 
consider what more likely than not happened.
  
Mr S says clarity about the Bill Payment retention period was only provided after he 
complained. As the historic online information isnt available to me, its difficult for me to say 
exactly what detail there was online about the changes. However, in this instance, 
Nationwides submission that they shared the information about the changes with their 
customers online is plausible  it is not an unusual way for banks and buildings societies to 
do this in certain circumstances.
And as I explained in my provisional decision, in any event, like all of Nationwides 
customers, Mr S is still able to set up payees on his accounts if thats something he wishes 
to do. I recognise Mr S says setting up payees is something time-consuming to him  and I 
note that hes more recently said the impact of this for him is taking time out of his working 
day and that this has affected other accounts these Nationwide accounts are linked to. But 
its difficult for me to say Nationwide has treated Mr S unfairly in this case as hes not been 
prevented from using this feature of the accounts and these are changes Nationwide has 
made for all their customers, not just Mr S. 
In reply to my provisional decision Mr S said two particular Bill Payments were no longer 
showing in January 2020 despite having used them both within a 13 month window prior to 
January 2020. This is not a specific example that Mr S previously mentioned to our service 
and one of his supporting documents provided in response to my provisional decision was not accessible to our office. Mr S was made aware of this and given the opportunity to 
provide it, but it was not provided within the timeframe given and so Ive not considered this. 
It may therefore be something for Nationwide to check for Mr S as a separate matter. 
Mr S also felt some messages he shared with Nationwide using their secure messaging 
service support that Bill Payments would remain on accounts indefinitely  something he 
said was told to him when he first took out the accounts as well. Ive looked at the messages 
Mr S has provided, but there is nothing there which guarantees Bill Payment details would 
be in place indefinitely and there is no record of what may or may not have previously been 
said to Mr S. So this is not enough to persuade me to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
In Mr Ss response to my provisional decision he noted that my reference to the Company H 
example of a cancelled Bill Payment had wrongly referred to an entry on the active Standing 
Order list as a Bill Payment. Reviewing the documents, I acknowledge this was incorrectly 
referenced. I do note that the active Bill Payment list Mr S provided in reply to my provisional 
decision which is closer in date to the Company H example than the previous document 
provided, does include a Bill Payment for Company H. However, overall, this doesnt change 
the outcome Ive reached about Mr Ss complaint.
Mr Ss complaint stems from Nationwides decision to change the retention period for 
customers unused Bill Payments. This is a commercial decision for Nationwide, and its 
something they can choose to do under the terms of the accounts as part of the service they 
provide to their customers. This isnt something I can interfere with. 
As Ive explained, its difficult for me to know how these changes to the accounts were 
communicated to customers, but theres no requirement that Im aware of for Nationwide to 
have told Mr S directly. 
I do not question the inconvenience to Mr S given he has a high number of Bill Payments he 
uses alongside Standing Orders to manage his finances, but Im unable to say that 
Nationwide has done anything wrong in how theyve applied the terms of his accounts in this 
case. I realise that setting up a new Bill Payment is an inconvenience for anyone, but this 
would be the same for other Nationwide customers, so I cant say Mr S is being treated 
unfairly compared to other Nationwide customers. 
Mr S has said he has retained the Nationwide accounts as they are integral to how he 
manages his finances. It is of course up to Mr S if he wishes to continue using Nationwides 
banking facilities. Im also unaware of any specific communication needs Mr S has made 
Nationwide aware of, other than removing his mobile phone number and email address. If Mr 
S has any particular needs to help him manage his banking, he should approach Nationwide 
to see what options and support may be available.
Ive also not seen anything to support that Mr S suffered a direct financial loss from not 
having a Bill Payment available to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman