DRN-3771721
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling of a claim he made 
for damage to the roof of his house, caused by a storm.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr W submitted a claim to Aviva for damage to the roof of his house. He said 
that the roof had a very high roof line where the ridge tiles are situated, facing the south and 
west. In the week in which storms Dudley, Eunice and Franklin occurred, a number of roof 
ridge tiles lifted off the roof, and some of the lower tiles were broken. Mr W says the shunting 
effect the movement of the tiles had on the roof caused the mortar / cement to break up, 
which was subsequently washed and blown away by the storms. 
Avivas claims investigator visited Mr Ws home on 7 April 2022 to inspect the damage. He 
concluded that the recent weather had highlighted existing issues of maintenance and wear 
and tear with the property. Aviva said the damage wasnt consistent with storm related 
damage and declined Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W complained about Avivas decision to decline the claim. But Aviva didnt uphold the 
complaint on the basis that the claim had been correctly declined, so Mr W brought his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but concluded the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Our investigator said that while there were storm conditions at the time 
the damage occurred, the nature of the damage claimed for demonstrated that it had taken 
place over a longer period of time and was likely due to gradual wear and tear. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He repeated his arguments that the damage had 
been caused by the recent storms. He said our investigator couldnt conclude it was mortar 
breakdown that happened over a period of time, because extreme wind events would have 
the same effect, and were what caused the damage. Mr W requested an ombudsmans 
decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr W is unhappy that Aviva declined his claim and believes the extreme weather events 
were responsible for the damage caused to his roof, not gradual wear and tear, as argued by 
Aviva.
So, Ive considered the claims decision reached by Aviva to see whether it was made in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
Aviva has accepted there were storm conditions around the time Mr W reported the damage 
to his roof, so this point isnt in dispute.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case, of tiles being blown off a roof, is consistent with damage typically 
caused by storm force winds.
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
Mr W says the storms which caused the damage werent typical storms but were extreme 
storms with sustained ferociously high winds which caused the ridge tiles to be raised and 
washed any remaining mortar away. He said that the claims investigator didnt inspect the 
damage for seven weeks, following the storms, and by then the mortar had been washed 
away.
However, Aviva says the report from its claims investigator stated that the mortar was 
missing between a lot of the ridges and daylight could be seen through those areas. In his 
view it indicated a breakdown of mortar which would have degraded over a period. In 
addition, photographs of the roof showed heavy moss growth, which would indicate no 
maintenance had been carried out. And, the notes made of the initial claim call, recorded 
that Mr W confirmed no maintenance had been carried out to the roof. Aviva commented 
that it is common for storm conditions to highlight a pre-existing issue, such as gradual 
failure, wear and tear or lack of maintenance.
Ive carefully considered all of the information in coming to my decision on this complaint. On 
the one hand Mr W says the main source of damage was the extreme weather conditions 
experienced at that time. On the other hand, Aviva says the roof hadnt been maintained and 
was in a poor state of repair, so rather than causing the damage, the storms highlighted 
existing issues with the roof.
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, happened, given the 
available evidence and surrounding circumstances. 
Under the Buildings section conditions part of Mr Ws policy, when explaining how claims 
for storm damage are dealt with, it says:
Whether youre claiming for storm or something else its a policy condition that you keep 
your property in good condition so if you havent done this and this was the reason (or main 
reason) for the damage then we may not pay your claim or may not pay it in full.Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think it more likely than not, that the 
dominant cause of the damage was gradual wear and tear. So, Aviva have acted within the 
policy terms and conditions and have fairly declined Mr Ws claim. I therefore do not uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman