DRN-2921020
The complaint
 Miss E complains that Hamsard 3225 Limited, trading as CLC Finance (CLC), lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information that CLC has provided I have created a brief loan table for this final 
decision. Miss E was approved for 17 loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Term (weeks) and 
repayment Repaid date
1 25 May 2018 £150 16 x £15 24 August 2018
2 27 July 2018 £100 21 x £8.50 9 November 2018
3 24 August 2018 £150 16 x £15 23 November 2018
4 28 September 2018 £100 16 x £10 30 November 2018
5 9 November 2018 £100 20 x £8.50 25 January 2019
6 23 November 2018 £150 16 x £15 8 March 2019
7 30 November 2018 £100 16 x £10 15 March 2019
8 14 December 2018 £240 32 x £12 16 August 2019
9 8 March 2019 £150 16 x £15 21 June 2019
10 15 March 2019 £125 16 x £12.50 21 June 2019
11 21 June 2019 £150 16 x £15 4 October 2019
12 21 June 2019 £125 16 x £12.50 27 September 2019
13 27 September 2019 £150 16 x £15 27 December 2019 
14 27 September 2019 £100 16 x 10 7 February 2020
15 4 October 2019 £150 16 x £15 7 February 2020
16 27 December 2019 £200 23 x £15 7 August 2020
17 13 March 2020 £100 16 x £10 7 August 2020
Miss E raised a complaint against CLC. It responded with its final response letter in 
September 2020 and Miss E referred her complaint to this Service soon afterwards.
Miss E has provided screenshots of parts of her personal credit file and later her bank 
statements for us to review. Miss E told us that she had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
entered in September 2016 brought by another high cost home credit lender. It was satisfied 
in April 2017. Miss E told us that she has been unemployed since 2014 and had three 
dependents. Miss E said that when applying for these loans she gave similar information 
each time which was: tax credits of £167 a week, child benefit £48 a week and income 
support £144 every two weeks. This adds up to be about £287 a week.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that CLC ought to put things
right from Loan 6. CLC disagreed and made many additional submissions. 
I have issued two provisional decisions for Miss Es complaint and this is the final decision. 
After my second provisional decision, CLC has made further submissions all of which I have 
read and considered.
My first provisional decision included citations of regulations and quotes from other 
published resources. These are reproduced here in the final decision for completeness in the 
section entitled legal and regulatory framework.
Both sets of provisional findings from each of the provisional decisions are reproduced in the 
next section under separate sub-headings which are italicised and bold type. The provisional 
decision findings themselves are in smaller type-set to differentiate them. 
The complaint remained unresolved still and so final considerations of the latest CLC 
submissions have been done and this is my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I outline here the legal and regulatory structure in place when the lending was approved.
CLC gave Miss E her first loan in 2018. The Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending 
Guide (OFT ILG) is historic in relation to Miss Es loans as it applied before April 2014 and 
Miss Es first loan was May 2018. Still, the OFT ILG is significant as it forms the foundation 
of the subsequent regulatory structure for responsible lending (after April 2014) with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
I have not set out the OFT ILG guidance paragraphs here. One of the reasons is I am aware
that colleagues of mine have sent provisional decisions to CLC which set out the OFT ILG 
regulations in detail as well as the FCA ones. And decisions on our ombudsman
service website also give these details. So, I have kept the focus on the FCA and CONC
regulations which apply to Miss Es case as her loans were approved after 1 April 2014.
the legal and regulatory framework
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And 
the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit- 
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as CLC.
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And this was 
amended in November 2018 when CONC 5.2A was added and CONC 5.1 and 5.2 and 5.3 
were deleted.
CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated 
agreement. Some of chapter 6 has changed.
Up to November 2018 the starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC 
which set out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this 
type. It said a firm must consider:(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
Like the OFT ILG before it, CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of 
assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) said:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability, and CONC 5.3.1G(1) said:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the 
customers ability to repay the credit.
By way of explanation, CONC 5.3.1G(2) read:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Similar wording is incorporated into CONC 5.2A.12 after November 2018.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
stated:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R said that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Many of these provisions are written through to those rules after the amendments in 
November 2018. And here are some specific ones relevant to Miss Es complaint.
CONC 5.2A.20 is entitled Scope, extent and proportionality of assessment.
CONC 5.2A.20 R(1) The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that the 
firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, 
based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual 
circumstances of each case.
(2)The firm must consider:
(a) the types of information to use in the creditworthiness assessment;
(b) the content and level of detail of the information to use;
(c) whether the information in the firms possession is sufficient;
(d) whether and to what extent to obtain additional information from the customer;
(e) whether and to what extent to obtain information from a credit reference agency;
(f) any other sources of information to use;
(g) whether and to what extent to verify the accuracy of the information that is used;
(h) the degree of evaluation and analysis of the information that is used; and
(i) the steps to take to determine or estimate the customers income or non- 
discretionary expenditure (where such a determination or estimate is required), 
having regard to the factors listed in (3) where applicable to the agreement.
And a guidance paragraph CONC 5.2A.22 G indicates as follows:
The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware at the time the 
creditworthiness assessment is carried out that may indicate that:
(1) the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial 
difficulties (see CONC 1.3);
And another guidance paragraph of relevance here is CONC 5.2A.25 G:
(1) In relation to CONC 5.2A.24G(1), potential indicators that the level of affordability 
risk arising out of the agreement may be high include circumstances where:
(a) the total value of the customers outstanding debts relative to the customers 
income is high; or
(b) there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make repayments under the
agreement by their due dates.
(2) In relation to CONC 5.2A.25G(1)(b), it may be the case that a high risk that one 
repayment will be missed or will be late is, in the individual circumstances, indicative 
that the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement is high.
There have been several publications and Dear CEO letters issued by the FCA during the 
time that CLC lent to Miss E. 
For example, on 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive 
Officer of all firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio. An extract to show what sort 
of lenders come under this portfolio is set out below. And as can be seen, CLC is one such 
lender. Its reasonable for a lender such as CLC to be mindful of what these further 
publications say.Im satisfied the letter applies to CLC, because it says [my emphasis in bold];
Who this letter applies to
This letter applies to firms providing the following products:
guarantor loans
high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC)
high-cost unsecured loans aimed at sub-prime customers
home-collected credit (HCC)
income smoothing products
logbook loans
pawnbroking
rent-to-own (RTO)
The FCA concluded, in the letter the following (which will be relevant later in this provisional 
decision):
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns and
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may 
not be able to afford.
And then, in August 2020, the FCA released its view into re-lending in the high cost credit 
portfolio. The findings of the re-relending review say:
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms 
(but which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we 
highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a 
pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability 
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are 
making proportionate and responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing. 
Further, firms must not encourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit 
agreement if the result would be the customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instance to see levels of debt and repayments increase 
significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become 
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned that 
firms are lending to customers beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and 
causing customer harm as a result.
CLC is currently licensed by the FCA to carry out consumer credit related activity including 
providing home-collected credit. And the FCA considers that, by providing this type of credit, 
CLC falls under the high cost credit portfolio. Clearly CLC is a home credit provider, and not 
a payday lender. But when thinking about what has happened in this case, Ive kept in mind 
all the regulations and publications that Ive mentioned above and the amendments from 
November 2018.CLC also says it has worked closely with the FCA and with Yorkshire Trading Standards and 
neither party has raised any concerns around its lending practices. I dont know the nature of 
any supervision or reviews carried out on CLC by those bodies, and so I am not able to 
comment. But even if I did know the content of those reviews, my role is not that of 
regulatory compliance, my role is to consider what has happened in the individual 
circumstances of Miss Es case  considering her loan history and what CLC knew about her 
before loan approvals were made. 
So, although general conduct concerns may not have been raised, that doesnt mean that, in 
this case, CLC has done everything that it needed to do in terms of following the regulations 
and guidance. And below Ive explained why, based on everything Ive seen, Miss Es 
complaint should be upheld.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether CLC did anything wrong when it 
provided Miss E with her loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Considering the relevant rules, guidance 
and law, I think the overarching questions are:
Did CLC, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss E would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Miss E wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there 
a point where CLC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Miss Es indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful 
and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did CLC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that CLC did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss E and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did CLC, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
The OFT and the FCA didnt, and still doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not 
an assessment of the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit, but of the risk to the 
consumer of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence 
as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and 
circumstances of a consumer. What may be enough for one consumer might not be for 
another, or indeed what might be enough for a consumer in one circumstance might not be 
so for the same consumer in other circumstances. CLC needed to be prepared to adapt its 
assessment depending on what it knew about Miss E. So, a dynamic approach to assessing 
each applications affordability for the customer is vital.Bearing the above in mind I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with the 
circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more 
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit 
in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might point to the fact that CLC should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but 
are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the 
period during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk that 
ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
My first provisional decision findings  12 January 2021
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether CLC carried out proportionate lending to 
Miss E. Ive decided to uphold Miss Es complaint in part and have explained why below.
CLC has sent to us recently the credit search results it carried out dated 18 May 2018. CLC had the 
information before the first loan was approved. I have looked through these results and I think that 
the CCJ is clearly noted twice: £290 dated 6 September 2016.
In addition, I have seen two defaults  one for a telecoms credit agreement where the default was 
applied 4 April 2018 and another was a mail order account default for £844 applied 26 April 2017. 
That balance had reduced very little over that year and stood at £844 by the time this credit search 
was carried out in May 2018 which suggests Miss E was unable to make payments towards it. .
The picture I have from those credit results are that
oMiss E had a relatively recent CCJ before applying for Loan 1
oMiss E had just gone into arrears on her electricity bill having already been in arrears 
for her gas for several months;
oMiss E had 12 active accounts of which five had been opened in the previous six 
months
oMiss E was over her credit limit on a mail order account (£625 balance on a £500 
limit) and in arrears with it;
oAnd she had five other home credit loans open with balances ranging from £45 to 
£212, the combined monthly payments for all those five outstanding accounts was: 
£248.
All this information leads me to think that CLC was on notice that Miss E had debt problems and 
was already trying to furnish several other loans before even starting on the first CLC loan in 
May 2018. In addition, she had a history of a CCJ not that long before, recent defaults and trouble with her 
priority bills. And referring to CONC 5.2A.22 G, I think that this list of financial issues and problems 
following a relatively recent CCJ does lead me to think that CLC would likely have recognised that 
Miss E as someone who is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial 
difficulties..
So, I think that CLC ought to have carried out a full financial review of her financial situation from 
Loan 1 and I think it already had most of the information to do that. But having obtained a lot of that 
information it failed to utilise it as part of the credit worthiness assessment the FCA expects before 
lending. And my view is that it was irresponsible to approve Miss E for a new loan in May 2018, and 
the ones following.
My provisional decision is that I plan to uphold Miss Es complaint from Loan 1, and the loans 
following that to Loan 5.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where CLC 
ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Es indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
In addition to thinking about the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss E by 
CLC, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what 
unfolded during Miss Es lending history with CLC. This is because there may come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my decision, CLC 
was required to establish whether Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Indeed, CONC 5.3.1 
explains that CLC had to take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay 
the credit.
So, the loan payments being affordable might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because CONC defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and that the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time and while meeting other reasonable commitments.
And after November 2018 similar wording is in CONC 5.2A.12.
The individual checks that CLC carried out  and whether they were proportionate  may not matter 
after a certain point. As the lending history (on its own) may have been enough to say that the 
lending had become harmful for Miss E. I refer to the FCAs re-lending policy paper of August 2020, 
which in turn referenced the October 2018 Dear CEO letter which said:
In that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a 
pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability 
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making 
proportionate and responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 17 because I didnt 
consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think that from loan 6 in 
November 2018, CLCs checks really needed to go further than just relying on the information 
Miss E was providing. It ought to have been trying to verify the information in order to have an 
accurate understanding of Miss Es actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Miss E, CLC needed to have regard to the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during its lending relationship with Miss E. I do think CLC was wrong to have provided 
loans 6 to 17. I say this because
- By loan 6 CLC ought to have realised Miss E was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Miss E had been indebted to CLC for around 6 months. And was taking more loans 
which overlapped. Her weekly repayments were increasing and the information CLC had ought 
to have alerted it to the narrow margins between Miss Es outgoings and her benefit income. 
So, CLC ought to have realised it was more likely than not her indebtedness was 
unsustainable;
- Miss E was provided with a new loan when she had either just settled a previous one or 
when she still had a loan, or loans, outstanding  Loan 6 was approved when she already had 
several other loans still to repay;
- CLC has said that it continued to lend when Miss E was in financial difficulty, including 
having a County Court Judgement recorded against her in late 2016. I dont think this is 
reasonable and I dont see how CLC could have been lending responsibly when it knew Miss E 
was having significant problems managing her money.
I think that Miss E lost out because CLC continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by 
allowing her to take credit over an extended period; and
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Miss E borrowed was 
likely to have had negative implications on Miss Es ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, overall, Im planning to uphold the complaint about loans 1 to 5 and Loans 6 to 17 and CLC 
should put things right for Miss E.
Did CLC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that leads 
me to conclude CLC acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other way.
Specific points raised by CLC
In CLCs most recent response to our adjudicators second view it raised some specific 
points. Ive addressed them here. 
I do not think that the customers borrowing needs are met when a loan is lent irresponsibly. So, 
this detailed provisional decision should have addressed this part.
Concerns in relation to a competitive marketplace is a CLC concern and not ours when we look 
to resolve an individual complaint about irresponsible lending.
Repayment of loans by a customer does not necessarily mean that the customer was able to repay 
easily. And when carrying out a creditworthiness assessment then checking whether Miss E was 
borrowing to meet existing debts would likely be a fundamental step.
CLC has described knowing its customer base and has made the point that often they are in a 
category of people who may not be able to get credit elsewhere as they are considered
too high risk. In my view that leads me to conclude that the creditworthiness assessment
needs to be more thorough. And the unique situation where the CLC agents visit its own
customers in their homes also leads me to think that those agents can see and understand
individual situations and ask for additional information even more easily.Many of its points relating to home credit as a product have been addressed earlier in this
provisional decision, particularly with reference to the regulations and the FCA Dear CEO
letters.
My second provisional decision dated 9 June 2021
Since I issued my first provisional decision more information has been sent to us by both parties. That 
first provisional decision is remaining as a separate document to this second provisional decision. 
One of the reasons is that it is eleven pages long and so I think it will be neater to keep them 
separate. As and when the final decision is issued then they will all be combined into one document.
How did each of the parties respond to my first provisional decision?
Miss E had nothing further to add and was content to accept my first provisional decision. CLC 
disagreed with my provisional decision to uphold the complaint from Loan 1. It raised several subjects 
and made points for me to review and reconsider. CLC sent to us a Report by the Personal Finance 
Research Centre published in March 2013. I have made some sub-headings in the main body of this 
second provisional decision to address the points which are relevant to Miss Es complaint.
The additional provisional conclusions I have come to after reviewing all these points and the new 
evidence from both parties are addressed in the next section. This second provisional decision is to 
be read alongside my first provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) compliance
I refer to my first provisional decision in which I set out the legal and regulatory framework and where 
I cite the relevant FCA provisions throughout. Although I havent repeated them, all those points 
continue to be relevant to, and are to be deemed to be in, this second provisional decision.
CLC has said two rather contradictory statements in its response to my first provisional decision. 
These are that a) CONC 5 does not relate to home credit, as its intended for payday lenders only and 
not lenders who provide home credit; and b) that CLC abided by the FCA CONC rules and guidance.
CLC is currently licensed by the FCA to carry out consumer credit related activity including providing 
home-collected credit. As a regulated firm then the FCAs Principles for Business set out the 
overarching requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. And the FCAs 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit related regulated 
activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such as CLC.
So, the point made by CLC that CONC 5 does not apply to it is not accepted by me as CLC is an FCA 
regulated firm and is required to comply.
Referral to CLC by a family member
CLC has raised the fact that a family member referred Miss E to CLC. I consider this to be irrelevant 
when deciding on a complaint surrounding irresponsible lending.
Report by the Personal Finance Research Centre, University of Bristol
The Report is dated March 2013 and is entitled The impact on business and consumers of a cap on 
the total cost of credit. And the Executive Summary says:
This research was commissioned by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) 
to inform understanding of the likely impact on lenders and consumers of introducing a 
variable cap on the total cost of credit that can be charged in the short- to-medium term fixed-
rate credit markets. The purpose of the research was not to make a recommendation to BIS 
on whether or not a cap should be introduced, but to provide an up-to-date evidence base 
that would help inform policy decision-making in this area.I am not clear as to the relevance of this Report to Miss Es complaint. One statement by CLC in its 
submissions to us is: 
Our experience in relation to the purposes why our customers take out loans is consistent 
with the Bristol University report on home collected credit (attached hereto), which notes that 
consumers using home credit do so to fund events such as Christmas and summer holidays. 
I think that this may be the reason for sending the Report to us.
The reason for applying for a loan may have some part to play when a lender is carrying out a 
creditworthiness assessment before approving the loan. Apart from this, I do not think that CLC has 
articulated its reason for sending this Report to us. The Report was published before the FCA review 
which led it to impose a cost-cap in January 2015. Since that Report there have been others which 
are more up-to-date.
The March 2013 Report may be important in the history of the organic growth surrounding the FCAs 
attitude and approach to the regulated lending rules, but it does not provide evidence relevant to the 
considerations in this case, and so does not persuade me to alter my mind and view on Miss Es 
complaint.
Repayment
CLC says Miss Es successful repayment of the loans disproves any financial difficulty and proves the 
loans were affordable.
Repayment of loans does not prove that Miss E was able to afford the next loan. I had already 
responded to this in my first provisional decision, and I continue to reject that argument.
Risk of unregulated lender use
I make no comment on this subject as it is a hypothetical scenario suggested by CLC and does not 
relate to the loan approvals which are the basis of this complaint. I am being asked to look at the 
regulation of lending, as it was at the time Miss Es loans were taken, and to consider whether CLCs 
actions were compliant with that regulation.
County Court Judgment (CCJ) history
Miss E has given us more information about this CCJ. It related to a home credit lender debt, filed on 
6 September 2016 and satisfied in April 2017.
CLC has said it was aware of this CCJ before approving Loan 1. CLC has confirmed that it was 
showing as satisfied on the credit search it carried out in May 2018. CLC has also said that it did not 
know it was for another home credit lender.
I cannot see that the lender identity is important, as the relevance to this complaint is the proximity of 
the Judgment to CLCs first loan approval. And it would have remained relevant and on Miss Es credit 
file for the entire lending period, raising significant concerns about her ability to sustainably repay any 
borrowing.
I underline here all Ive said in my first provisional decision about what I saw in Miss Es credit file and 
my views on it. I set them out here for ease of reading. My views have not altered.
In addition, I have seen two defaults  one for a telecoms credit agreement where the default 
was applied 4 April 2018 and another was a mail order account default for £844 applied 26 
April 2017. That balance had reduced very little over that year and stood at £844 by the time 
this credit search was carried out in May 2018 which suggests Miss E was unable to make 
payments towards it.
The picture I have from those credit results are that
oMiss E had a relatively recent CCJ before applying for Loan 1
oMiss E had just gone into arrears on her electricity bill having already been in arrears for her 
gas for several months;
oMiss E had 12 active accounts of which five had been opened in the previous six months
oMiss E was over her credit limit on a mail order account (£625 balance on a £500 limit) and in 
arrears with it;oAnd had five other home credit loans open with balances ranging from £45 to £212 and the 
combined monthly payments for all those five outstanding accounts was: £248.
All this information leads me to think that CLC was on notice that Miss E had debt problems and 
was already trying to furnish several other loans before even starting on the first CLC loan in 
May 2018. In addition, she had a history of a CCJ not that long before, recent defaults and trouble 
with her priority bills. And referring to CONC 5.2A.22 G, I think that this list of financial issues and 
problems following a relatively recent CCJ does lead me to think that CLC would likely have 
recognised that Miss E as a someone who is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to 
experience, financial difficulties.
So, I think that CLC ought to have carried out a full financial review of her financial situation from 
Loan 1 and I think it already had most of the information to do that. But having obtained a lot of 
that information it failed to utilise it as part of the credit worthiness assessment the FCA expect 
before lending. And my view is that it was irresponsible to approve Miss E for a new loan in 
May 2018, and the ones following.
My review of the bank transaction lists from Miss E and seen by CLCs agents
CLC explained that its agents reviewed Miss Es bank statements during the application process. CLC 
has indicated that it wanted us to review Miss Es bank statements to show that its agents checks 
were diligent and correct.
CLC has also said that Miss Es income and outgoings would be clarified by doing this.
Our adjudicator asked Miss E for the relevant bank statements from the time of the lending so that 
I would be able to see what they showed, especially as CLC believed this would show that its 
decisions to lend were in line with the regulations. Miss E was able to access them on-line and sent 
copies to us of the transaction lists from March 2018 for all that year.
Alongside all that information surrounding Miss Es credit file (referred to in detail in my first 
provisional decision), and that CLC knew of the CCJ which was relatively recent before the approval 
of Loan 1, the bank transaction lists reveal that Miss E was repaying to at least four debt collection 
agencies. Plus, Miss E had accounts with other credit providers and so was already committed to 
those.
As I said in my first provisional decision, I would have expected CLC to have carried out a full financial 
review of her financial situation from Loan 1 and I think it already had most of the information to do 
that. And now I understand that CLCs agents had reviewed her bank statements in her home.
Whatever the reason for asking to see Miss Es statements in her home, what this information from 
both parties tells me is that the agent had access to them at the time of the applications. Despite this, 
I think CLC failed to utilise them as part of the creditworthiness assessment the FCA expected before 
lending. Based on the evidence provided by CLC, it seems that its agent essentially disregarded the 
evidence from Miss Es bank statements, which only demonstrated further her inability to sustainably 
repay lending.
My view remains that it was irresponsible to approve Miss E for a new loan in May 2018, and each of 
the loans following.
CLCs submission on headroom
CLC has sent us a table which it uses to demonstrate what it considers was Miss Es headroom. 
CLC said Miss E had weekly headroom of sums ranging from £150 to £250 a week. CLC has said 
that This table and the fact that she repaid her loans disproves any financial difficulty and proves the 
loans were affordable.
I understand this term headroom refers to CLCs calculation of what Miss E had left over from her 
income after repaying her CLC loans. And the point being made is that in its view Miss E was able 
to afford the loans.
CLC has explained that the figures come from information extracted from the affordability 
assessments we completed with [Miss E]. And CLC reasserts that the agent had undertaken the 
creditworthiness assessments at Miss Es home and made notes of the assessments.My view, having reviewed Miss Es financial situation for the period (including her bank transactions 
for 2018), is that its not likely Miss Es weekly disposable income in May 2018 was what CLCs 
table has said it was - £265. I say this because documents sent to us called Customer Record 
includes one which has a summary of customer details. In those notes it has some details which 
include Occupation Unemployed and Household income £0 and State Benefits £435.60. 
However, its unclear whether this was a weekly, fortnightly or monthly figure. The CLC business 
notes also show she had three dependants and no partner.
The combined benefits receipts for the month of April 2018 as shown on the bank transaction list 
I have seen includes the following: her DWP payment of £81.18 twice (£162.36), and her child tax 
credit receipts (£848.81 in total) and the child benefit of £192.40. This adds up to around £1,204 a 
month which, in turn, translates into the equivalent of around £277.74 a week.
And I did the same exercise for March 2018. The payments were a little different as sometimes a 
person can receive five of one payment in a month and sometimes four as the weeks across the 
year are not evenly split into 12 lots of four. The March 2018 figures from her bank transaction list 
came to a total set of receipts of £1,121 which translated into £258.77 a week.
And so, I think that these reviews of the March and April 2018 transaction lists demonstrates Miss Es 
true income situation and not that it was £435.60 a week.
It also casts doubt on how CLC has calculated that Miss E had headroom of around £150 to
£250 a week or that her disposable income in May 2018 was around £265.
All of Miss Es income being purely benefits, and that she was a single non-working mother of three 
dependents gives the picture of someone with a financially challenging life. And there is an 
argument that benefit payments received for the three dependents ought not to be categorised as 
her income as the benefits were payable for the dependent children and not for her or for it to be 
classified as income. If those payments were excluded, then the weekly receipts figure would 
reduce further.
Some of the information CLC has sent to us includes applications for individual loans (the loan 1 
application does not seem to be included in the items sent from CLC). These regularly show the 
agent had noted Miss Es income as being around £347 a week which, those notes state, was made 
up of
Child benefit - £48 
Child tax credit £167 
Income support £72 
Maintenance £60
The maintenance of £60 a week is not explained and does not appear as credits in Miss Es bank 
transaction lists. And if this was cash to her from, say, a former partner then it looks to be an 
informal arrangement. If thats the case then I do not think its an appropriate action to include it in 
regular income when assessing a person for a loan.
And as I have demonstrated using the March and April 2018 receipts showing on Miss Es bank 
transaction lists, these items of child benefit, child tax credit and income support are not 
necessarily paid weekly. So, the combination of several factors (see below) leads me to think that 
its not likely Miss Es income each and every week was around £347 as the agent has noted 
down. The factors I refer to are that the agent has:
listed the benefits receipts as being for 52 weeks a year which was not 
entirely accurate; and
included what appears to be an informal arrangement of £60 a week which was not 
a very thorough approach and potentially a problem for Miss E as she may not 
have received that £60 each week and the payments were at risk of stopping 
altogether; and
the child benefit sums possibly ought not to have been included as her income 
as they were benefits sums paid for the children.The application forms do show a relatively low level of outgoings, but they do not do the 
following:
(a)include the fact that Miss E was paying four (possibly five) payments each week to debt 
collectors; and
(b)that Miss E was paying out Standing Orders for £1 regularly which suggests she was 
involved in a series of repayment plans; and
(c)that Miss E was paying back another home credit loan; and
(d)that Miss E was repaying another loan to a different financer; and
(e)she was paying a fixed service charge of £10 a month.
As I have already said in my first provisional decision and which I repeat here, the CCJ history 
leads me to think that CLC ought to have carried out in-depth checks right from the start of its 
relationship with Miss E. It had the opportunity and resources to do it. But I do not think that this 
was done.
And if it had, I think that CLC would have seen that Miss E was a low earner and already had 
outstanding debts with several other parties. As has been referred to before in these decisions, its 
not always the literal pounds and pence situation which constitutes a responsible lending decision. 
It can also be the overarching financial picture which needs to be looked at.
My provisional decision is the same as my first and I plan to uphold Miss Es complaint from 
Loan 1, and the loans following that up to and including Loan 5.
I repeat here the paragraphs in my first provisional decision relating to the repeat lending
and my provisional decision to uphold Loans 6 to 17 remains the same and for the same
reasons.
The current situation 
Miss E made no further comments about my second provisional decision. 
CLC made further submissions and are a repeat of what CLC has submitted to us before. It 
does not agree with my provisional decisions, hence the complaint remains unresolved and 
has to be decided by me. Having read the recent CLC submissions I have not come across 
any that have not been addressed in my earlier two provisional decisions. And so, I have 
nothing further to add and I am not persuaded to alter my provisional findings. Those are 
repeated here and are to be read as my final decision findings.
In relation to the redress element, CLC appears not to have accepted that, in my view, and 
considering the Kerrigan case, any reduction in redress due would have to be predicated on 
a third party lender providing lending fully in line with the rules and regulations. I included in 
the section Putting things right of my Second Provisional decision my additional points 
surrounding this. I repeat them here in my Final Decision which is that in my view, it follows 
that another lender couldnt have lent to Miss E compliantly either, if it had done proper 
creditworthiness assessments required by the FCA.
Putting things right
CLC has raised several points surrounding the redress proposal. This relates to a relatively 
recent Court Judgment known as the Kerrigan case. And CLC wants to know if Miss E has 
taken additional loans since complaining to it.I note CLCs points relating to the proposed redress. I set out what I am planning to direct as 
the redress for Miss E once more, fully conversant with the Kerrigan case.
In deciding what redress CLC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Miss E at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss E may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
CLC says it should be provided with a copy of Miss Es up-to-date credit file to demonstrate 
whether she has borrowed from another lender since 2018. It asserts that this service should 
insist upon Miss E providing that evidence to it, otherwise any decision I make runs the risk 
of being unfair.
Of course, it is not for this service to gather evidence on behalf of either party to a dispute. It 
is my role to weigh up the evidence provided to me and reach a fair and reasonable decision 
on the balance of probabilities. However, more importantly, the evidence that CLC has tried 
to obtain would not, in and of itself, make any difference to the redress in this case. Crucially, 
the judgement in the Kerrigan case is clear that any reduction in redress due would have to 
be predicated on a third party lender providing lending fully in line with the rules and 
regulations.
From what Ive seen from Miss Es circumstances which I have set out in detail in both of my 
provisional decisions, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that another lender could have lent compliantly, particularly given that
I am satisfied CLC should not have approved any of this lending at all had it been acting in a 
compliant way. In my view, it follows that another lender couldnt have done so either if it had 
done proper creditworthiness assessments required by the FCA.
So even if an up-to-date credit file were to show borrowing from a third party lender since 
2018, given all the circumstances, I could not conclude that, or those, lending decision(s) 
were compliant with the relevant rules and regulations.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these possible 
other options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce CLCs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
What CLC needs to do
CLC shouldnt have approved for Miss E loans 1 to 17 and to put things right it should do as 
I have outlined here. I understand that Miss E has repaid all the loans and there is no 
outstanding sum due to CLC.
CLC should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss E towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything already refunded; andCLC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
CLC should pay Miss E the total of A plus B; and
in relation to Loans 1 to 5, any adverse payment information on her credit file ought 
to be amended. And the overall pattern of Miss Es borrowing for Loans 6 to 17 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so CLC should remove 
these loans entirely from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CLC to deduct tax from this interest. CLC should give
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax CLC has deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint and direct that Hamsard 3225 Limited, 
trading as CLC Finance, does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman