DRN-4344902
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds (Acasta) decision to 
decline a claim made under a guarantee for an air source heat pump. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr R says he discovered a fault with his air source heat pump. The 
pump had been installed in February 2022, with the works finalised in April 2022. At some 
point between April and the fault being discovered in December, the original supplier went 
into liquidation. Mr R contacted Acasta to make a claim under his warranty. Acasta asked 
him to get a report from another supplier setting out the fault and estimated cost to repair it. 
Mr R obtained this information and provided it to Acasta. 
Acasta subsequently declined the claim which caused Mr R to complain. In the final 
response letter, Acasta said the faults were due to the installation of the pump, so would 
have been apparent before the supplier went into liquidation. Therefore, Acasta considered 
the claim wasnt covered by the guarantee. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked us to look into his concerns. One of our investigators did so and 
said that whilst the underlying cause of the fault might have been present since the air pump 
was installed, she considered Mr R was unaware of this until the fault presented itself. She 
recommended Acasta reconsider the claim subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Mr R accepted the investigators conclusions, but Acasta didnt. So, this case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this case, Ive reached the same decision as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. For clarity, Ive included the exclusion Acasta is looking to rely on when declining 
Mr Rs claim:
No cover is provided for faults that occurred (whether notified or not) prior to the 
supplier ceasing to trade.
Its not in dispute the independent report Mr R obtained at Acastas request identified faults 
with the instillation of the air pump. And based on this, it appears the fault could have been 
present since instillation.
In response to our investigators conclusions, Acasta said they consider the faults would 
have been apparent prior to the supplier ceasing to trade. However, they havent provided 
any evidence to support this, or identified how Mr R ought reasonably to have known the 
instillation carried out several months before was faulty. 
Where theres incomplete or contradictory evidence provided, I need to decide what of the 
evidence provided I find most persuasive. Here, I find Mr Rs account of what happened 
more persuasive. Im satisfied, based on the information provided, the first time Mr R 
became aware a potential fault with the pump (and that he may need to rely on the 
guarantee) was in December 2022, when the pump failed. Ive considered the report Mr R 
obtained from the other supplier. This noted when the temperature dropped, the system 
shows faults which caused it to stop producing heating and hot water. Against this 
background, it doesnt seem unreasonable Mr R first became aware of faults later in the year 
 i.e., when the temperature dropped. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont consider Acasta can show it acted fairly in declining Mr Rs 
claim based on the above exclusion. To put things right, Acasta should reconsider Mr Rs 
claim subject to the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Acasta 
European Insurance Company Limited to reconsider Mr Rs claim, subject to the remaining 
policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman