DRN-4399442
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund him the money he lost as a result 
of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this scam are well known to both parties, so I have only summarised the key 
events here:
In February 2023, Mr B made an online payment totalling £475 to purchase a high-tech 
stationary exercise bike. 
Mr B had initially seen the bike advertised for sale by a private seller on a social media 
marketplace. Interested, Mr B contacted the seller through the sites online chat function. 
The seller told Mr B the bike was practically brand new. She said it had been purchased for 
her husband but it had been too difficult for him to use. The seller also told Mr B that the bike 
came with a six-month online subscription. The seller explained that the bike was at her 
home which was a six hour round trip away from Mr Bs residence.  
Having agreed a price, Mr B enquired if he would be able to pick the bike up the next day. 
The seller queried the distance Mr B would have to travel and said she would include the 
delivery cost in the price of the sale. Mr B queried whether this would be very expensive but 
was told it would only cost £35. 
Mr B had some reservations about the sale but ultimately agreed to make the payment after 
taking out a loan with Monzo to cover the cost. Mr B said he checked that the name of the 
seller matched the name on the account he was paying to and proceeded to make the 
payment. However, the bike was not delivered as agreed and the seller stopped responding 
to Mr B. At this point, Mr B suspected hed been the victim of a scam and so he contacted 
his bank, Monzo, to let them know. 
Monzo tried to recover the funds Mr B had sent, but none remained in the receiving account 
for recovery. It also looked into Mr Bs scam claim, but concluded it was not liable for 
refunding his loss. It said Mr B shouldve conducted more checks on the seller and the item 
to ensure they were legitimate before making the payment now in question here. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Mr B did enough to 
ensure he was purchasing a genuine exercise bike or communicating with a genuine seller. 
Specifically, she pointed out that the asking price of the bike, when taking into account any 
plausible delivery costs, was too good to be true. 
Mr B didnt accept the Investigators opinion. He reiterated that he had checked the name of 
the account he was paying matched that of the seller. He also pointed out that he had found 
other similar exercise bikes being sold online for around £500-£600 and so he didnt feel the 
price he had agreed to pay could reasonably be considered too good to be true.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and the account terms and 
conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its customer, 
even though the payment was authorised. 
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which Monzo has agreed to act in the spirit of, Monzo should reimburse customers who are 
victims of authorised push payment scams, except in limited circumstances. 
In considering this, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Mr B 
under the provisions of the CRM Code, and whether it ought to have done more to protect 
him from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a level of care on Mr B, 
and so I have also considered whether he met this too. 
The CRM Code 
The CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited 
circumstances. It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of 
care under one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those 
exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief? Under the CRM Code, Monzo can choose not to reimburse Mr B if it doesnt believe he took 
the requisite level of care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for believing that the person 
he was paying, and the goods he was paying for, were legitimate. It isnt enough for Mr B to 
believe that he was paying a legitimate person for genuine goods or services, he had to 
have a reasonable basis for that belief. 
Mr B says he checked that the name of the seller matched the name on the account he was 
making the payment to. However, Im not persuaded that this is enough. And its unclear 
how this would have persuaded Mr B that the item he was purchasing was for sale and 
would be delivered to him. And so, Im not satisfied that making sure the account holder 
matched the name of the seller goes far enough for Mr B to have met the requisite level of 
care, particularly given what was being offered. Ill explain why. 
The seller had told Mr B that the bike was essentially brand new, that it came with a six-
month subscription and that it would be delivered, for free, for a total price of £475. 
I have looked at similar sales available in the marketplace and it appears that this bike, in a 
similar condition, second hand, would cost between £750 and £950. This is the price for the 
bike alone - it does not include postage costs. 
So, Im satisfied that this bike was being advertised for a particularly low price and this would 
be a significant discount especially given its nearly new condition. However, I am also 
mindful that people can and do find good deals on online marketplaces and a potential low 
price, in and of itself, isnt enough to say that Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. I 
have to consider the price in the round, whilst also thinking about whether there was 
anything else about the situation that ought to have caused Mr B to question the deal further 
before deciding to go ahead. And in the particular circumstances of this case, I am satisfied 
that the inclusion of free delivery on top of an already very low price shouldve reasonably 
rung alarm bells for Mr B. 
I say this because it would be difficult for a private seller to post such a large and weighty 
item. The parcel delivery service the seller said they were using tends to offer delivery for 
items weighing up to 30kg  the exercise bike in question would most likely be more than 
double this. And so, I dont think its unreasonable to assume that packing and shipping such 
an item would, at the very least, be difficult and time consuming. I also think any shipping 
costs wouldve likely been expensive for such a large and heavy item. And Im satisfied that 
Mr B wouldve likely known this too  he says as much in the messages shared between him 
and the seller. But he then goes on to accept what the seller says about the cost being 
minimal and therefore it would be included in the price of the sale.
I think that this shouldve been a significant red-flag. The cost quoted for the exercise bike 
alone, as Ive explained, was already considerably lower than market value. With the cost of 
the shipping included, Im satisfied the cost becomes too good to be true. And I agree with 
our investigator that this shouldve reasonably caused Mr B some concern. But Mr B readily 
accepted that the bike would be delivered to him after a very brief exchange with the seller in 
question. 
Overall, I think Mr B should have been more concerned about what he was being told. This 
sale was based on a significant amount of trust. So, whilst I acknowledge Mr B was 
ultimately persuaded by what the seller had told him, Im satisfied he took a risk when 
making this payment. I dont dispute that he made some checks, but in my view he shouldve 
been aware some things didnt add up. And so I cant fairly say that Mr B met his 
requirements under the CRM Code, and I think this made a difference here. Was Monzo required to provide a scam warning 
Mr B should get 50% of his losses reimbursed even if he didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief, if Monzo also didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code. 
One of those obligations is to give an effective warning if Monzo identifies a scam risk in a 
payment journey. However, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to say that Monzo 
shouldve identified such a risk here. And so, Im not persuaded Monzo wouldve been 
required to provide Mr B with an effective warning, given the relatively low nature of the 
payment in question and given that it appears to be generally in-line with Mr Bs usual 
activity on his account. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzo has acted reasonably in declining to offer Mr B a refund 
under the CRM Code given that both exceptions to reimbursement apply.
Recovery
Monzo attempted to recover the funds Mr B had sent after he told Monzo what had 
happened to him. However, by this point, no funds remained in the receiving account to 
return to Mr B  they had been withdrawn within 20 minutes of Mr B making the payment. 
And so, I dont think Monzo could have done anything more to try and recover the funds after 
it had been informed of the scam. 
Customer service
Monzo took longer than it shouldve to provide Mr B with a response to his complaint and I 
can see that during this period Mr B chased Monzo on numerous occasions for an update 
only to receive a generic, templated response. I can see from the messages shared between 
Mr B and Monzo how frustrating this was for him and I understand why. However, I can see 
that Monzo has already recognised that its customer service fell below what is expected of it 
here and it has already paid Mr B £75 by way of an apology for this. I think £75 is reasonable 
in the circumstances and I dont recommend that Monzo increase its offer further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman