DRN-3618927
The complaint
Ms M complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a shopping credit 
account facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms M has complained about unaffordable lending on a shopping credit account she took 
out with Next in February 2021. She was given a credit limit of £600. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint as she didnt think Next acted unfairly in 
giving her the account. She also didnt think that Next ought to have done more to help 
Ms M once she had the account. 
As Ms M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Ms M, Next says it carried out a credit 
check, including a credit search and credit scoring, to determine the amount of credit it 
was able to offer. Next also says it continued to assess Ms Ms account on a monthly 
basis, using credit reference agency information, to see how she was managing her 
account. 
I agree with our adjudicator that allowing Ms M an opening credit limit of £600 was not 
unreasonable. I say this because the initial credit of £600 was provided when Next told us 
there was no recent adverse information on Ms Ms credit file. Its possible that Nexts 
checks at the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might 
have been. I can see for example, as our adjudicator suggested, that it might have been 
useful if Next had taken steps to verify Ms Ms income at the time. I say this given that 
shed previously had an account default elsewhere  although this was around 20 months 
earlier. But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Next to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. This includes the bank statement 
information Ms M sent us, which shows she had monthly income of between £800 and 
£900 at the time the account was opened. 
Ms M has suggested that Next ought to have realised she was getting into further financial 
difficulty from the way the account was being managed. Ive reviewed the account activity 
and I can see that after she missed two consecutive monthly payments in late 2021 Next 
decided to suspend the account within two months, which I think is fair. I also cant see that 
Ms M got in touch with Next to let them know she was struggling. Im therefore not 
persuaded that Next  ought to have realised Ms M may have been struggling financially. 
It follows that I dont make any award as I dont think Ms M was caused any loss or 
material distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Next did after the credit was 
agreed with the initial credit limit. 
I would however expect Next to continue to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking to 
assist Ms M in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back the balance that is 
still owing on her account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman