DRN-3370733
The complaint
Miss C and Mr W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around August 2015, Miss C and Mr W was contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss C and Mr W 
decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
Miss C and Mr W later made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. they said 
that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Miss C and Mr W to enter into 
the contract with P. they have made the following points;
P said the system would generate sufficient returns to cover the loan repayments but 
that hasnt been the case.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response, so Miss C and Mr W referred their complaint to this 
service. Since then, Shawbrook have offered compensation of £200 to reflect the delays 
Miss C and Mr W have experienced while they investigated their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss C and Mr W and found no reason to uphold their complaint. But our 
investigator did think that Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Miss C and Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
they didnt achieve the monthly returns that were detailed within the quote; and
P didnt fit the OWL energy monitor to enable energy generation to be automatically 
reported and monitored; and
P didnt resolve a complaint about damage to their garden from the use of 
scaffolding; and
P connected illegal wires to a box mounted outside their property.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss C and Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agree 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss C and Mr W could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss C 
and Mr W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Miss C, Mr W and 
Shawbrook. These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss C and Mr Ws recollection of the 
sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Miss C and Mr W have alleged that they were told his monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Miss C and Mr W 
has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss C and Mr W 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss C and Mr W could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £440.22.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss C and Mr W could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £191.98 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £613.23. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss C and Mr W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £83.92. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £83.92, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss C and Mr W could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall returns they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss C and Mr W that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments. However, I do accept that Miss C and Mr W was told by P that the 
system would be self-funding over a duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Miss C and 
Mr W could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss C and Mr W that the system would pay 
for itself by year 18, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss C and Mr W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,868.81 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss C and Mr Ws FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,830.92 kWh to March 2019. This is slightly less than estimated by 
P at the point of sale but is within industry accepted tolerances of 10%. So, Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower. That said, with the recent rises seen in energy prices, that could well 
change going forward.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss C and 
Mr W couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss C and Mr W 
entered into the contract.
Other outstanding issues
Miss C and Mr W mentioned that the OWL energy monitor detailed within the quote wasnt 
installed correctly at their property. Shawbrook have confirmed that Ps records show this 
was installed. Theyve also pointed out that the device was provide free of charge to Miss C 
and Mr W. So, I dont believe this aspect supports a misrepresentation of the system sold to 
them. I would recommend they take matters up further with P should they remain unhappy 
together with any other workmanship concerns.
Summary
Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process and it wouldve been 
discussed with Miss C and Mr W. So, Ive not been persuaded that the salesperson wouldve 
said something that would then have been contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im 
satisfied that the Miss C and Mr W were sent the quote, had time to consider it and to raise 
any issues prior to installation.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss C and Mr 
W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
However, I do support Shawbrooks offer to pay compensation of £200. This is to reflect any 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in completing their investigation into Miss 
C and Mr Ws complaint. So, I shall be upholding this element of their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss C and Mr Ws complaint.
I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay compensation of £200 to Miss C and Mr W
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman