DRN-4426165
The complaint
Mr T complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim on his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car. 
In December 2022 a third-party collided with him and he made a claim. His claim was 
recorded by esure as a non-fault.
Later, he insured another car. When he did this, he found out that this claim hadnt been 
settled. It was reported on an external database used by insurers as being open. 
This meant Mr T had to pay a higher premium than he was expecting to pay because the 
open nature of the claim meant it would be held as his fault until such time as esure was 
able to recover its costs from the third party.
Mr T was unhappy and complained. esure upheld part of his complaint about its 
communication during his claim and awarded him £100 compensation. It said it wasnt able 
to close his claim because it hadnt completed its recoveries and there was an open injury 
claim for Mr T. But Mr T said he hadnt claimed for any injury.
He remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that esure closes 
the open claim and apologises to him.
Our investigator looked into it. She asked esure for its claims file but esure didnt respond 
apart from to ask for an extension and then it didnt respond further. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ts complaint would be upheld. She said she didnt have 
evidence to say whether esure had progressed his claim well, but she said Mr T should be 
able to approach his new insurers once the claim was closed and he had proof of its status. 
This might mean Mr T was able to recover some of the extra premiums hes been paying.
esure didnt respond to the view. Because it didnt respond, this complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in part and Ill explain why.
Its important that Mr T understands why esure hasnt changed the status of his claim to 
closed. esure has the right to deal with claim as it wishes and the ability to do this is found 
in the policy wording. This is common in the insurance marketplace and its use is fair here. 
As esure still hasnt responded to this services requests for its file Im not able to determine 
whether its actions have been fair and reasonable during Mr Ts claim. But I am able to 
assess the impact of its service on Mr T. 
In order to close this claim, esure need to be able to complete its recoveries from the third 
party who crashed into Mr T. This can be a lengthy process and it may ultimately be passed 
to solicitors at a certain point if esure isnt able to obtain its money. 
Im not able to tell Mr T how long this should take as it will depend on the complexity of the 
case, the situation of the third party, and esures actions to date (which Ive not been able to 
assess).
Until then, the claim will stay open on his records and will be held at some level of fault for 
him. Again, this is common in the marketplace.
The impact on Mr T is that other insurers, such as the one hes now insured with, will 
underwrite him according to the fact that he has a fault claim open against him. Even 
though he wasnt responsible for the collision.
What that means is that Mr T will likely be paying an additional premium due to the way 
these claims are reported on an external database. Its important I say that its likely Mr T is 
paying a slightly higher premium due to the fact hes made a claim at all, regardless of fault. 
But the impact of a fault claim is likely greater than a non-fault.
I can see that his current insurer has written to him and has said it will be able to reconsider 
the premium hes paid once Mr T is able to show it that his claim was closed on a non-fault 
basis.
So because its esures choice about how to handle this claim, Im not able to ask it to close 
his claim as he wishes. That said, I hope esure now move his claim speedily towards its 
conclusion and its final resolution means that Mr T is able to recover some of the extra 
premiums hes paid.
But its clear to me that Mr T has found the claims experience with esure inconvenient and 
somewhat distressing. Its lack of correspondence with him or providing him with meaningful 
updates means hes been paying additional premiums without a clear understanding of the 
situation. It seems to me that his new insurer has been significantly better in that regard. Ive 
thought about Mr Ts distress and inconvenience, and I think esure should pay him a total of 
£200 compensation, which includes the £100 its already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr T a total of £200 for his distress and inconvenience. It's 
my understanding that £100 has already been paid, so this can be deducted.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman