DRN-3038569
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a 
claim she made under her car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage includes their agents.
What happened
Miss S was unfortunately involved in an incident and her car was damaged. She made a 
claim to her insurer, Advantage. 
Advantage settled Miss Ss claim as a total loss in December 2019. Miss Ss car was being 
paid for by way of a finance agreement. Advantage paid the total loss settlement directly to 
Miss S. 
In May 2020 Miss S complained that Advantage paid the total loss settlement to her instead 
of the finance company as agreed. 
In June 2020 Advantage upheld Miss Ss complaint and apologised for its error. It said 
unfortunately unless Miss S returned the payment to Advantage, she would be responsible 
for settling the finance with the finance company. 
Miss S remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Advantage told us that although it upheld Miss Ss complaint, it had asked Miss S to provide 
details of the final settlement from the finance company in November 2019, but she hadnt 
provided it. So in December 2019 it paid the settlement to Miss S to avoid any delay. 
Our investigator thought Advantage hadnt done anything wrong. Emails showed that 
Advantage asked Miss S to provide details of the final settlement from the finance company, 
but it wasnt provided. So Advantage paid the settlement to Miss S as it said it would. From 
that point it was Miss Ss responsibility to settle the finance agreement with the finance 
company as she was the party in a relationship with them, not Advantage. 
Miss S didnt agree. She asked about how her GAP insurance would work. Our investigator 
explained that Miss S would need to speak to the company that provided GAP insurance  
and that its purpose is to pay the gap between a total loss settlement and the value of a car. 
So in this case, any reference to GAP insurance wouldnt affect the outcome of her 
complaint  as Miss S received the total loss settlement. 
Miss S wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Notes provided by Advantage and copy emails show that in November 2019 it asked Miss S 
to provide details of the finance company so that it could settle any outstanding finance on 
Miss Ss behalf. It said any balance left would be paid directly to Miss S. 
Theres no evidence that Miss S or the finance company provided Advantage with the 
information it needed in order to pay the settlement directly to the finance company. 
In December 2019 Advantage paid the total loss settlement directly to Miss S. I can see that 
in May 2020 Miss S contacted Advantage as she noticed the finance company were 
continuing to collect a monthly premium from her account for the finance on the car.
In May 2020 Advantage asked Miss S to return the settlement amount to it so that it could 
redirect payment to the finance company on her behalf. But she refused. So it said Miss S 
would need to pay the finance company herself from the settlement amount. 
Having looked at all of the information available, I cant say that Advantage has done 
anything wrong. It didnt receive details of the finance settlement from Miss S or the finance 
company. It isnt obliged to contact the finance company when dealing with a claim  this is 
for Miss S to do as she is the party in a contract with the finance company. 
In all cases we consider whether a customer could have taken reasonable steps to minimise 
their loss or avoid it entirely. Where possible, we think a customer should make a reasonable 
effort to minimise their loss. 
In this case, I think it was reasonable for Miss S to have checked with the finance company 
or with Advantage if she wasnt sure about the payment she received in December 2019. 
Advantage promptly settled Miss Ss claim by paying her the market value for her car in line 
with the policy terms. I dont think its reasonable to ask Advantage to pay the finance 
company when Miss S has received a fair settlement in line with the policy for her car. 
I understand Miss S will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Advantage 
needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman