DRN-3762243
The complaint
Mr K has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) broke his boiler when it 
was carrying out work under his home emergency policy.
What happened
While Mr Ks boiler was being serviced, a water leak was found coming from the boiler. So, 
Mr K contacted British Gas to fix the leak. An engineer visited and assessed the boiler. The 
engineer returned a few days later and worked on the boiler for a few hours. He told Mr K 
that he would either need to break through the chimney lintel or Mr K needed a new boiler. 
The engineer also told Mr K the boiler was leaking gas and that he had capped it.
Mr K complained to British Gas. He said there was no gas leak before the engineer worked 
on the boiler and that British Gas should compensate him as he now needed a new boiler. 
When British Gas replied, it said the engineer had been unable to repair the boiler because 
the opening wasnt big enough. Its investigation showed the boiler had been capped off 
because of a water leak, not a gas leak. As it hadnt caused any damage to the boiler, British 
Gas said it would be unable to contribute to the cost of a new boiler. However, it offered £80 
as a goodwill gesture because of inconvenience caused to Mr K by the sales team and the 
complaints team.
When Mr K complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the boiler 
seemed to be capped due to a water leak, even if British Gas misadvised Mr K it was due to 
a gas leak. He said Mr K was likely to have needed to replace the boiler regardless. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr K said he was told the boiler was capped due to a gas leak. He was also given a safety 
warning form by British Gas that said the boiler had been capped for this reason. When 
British Gas investigated, it said the boiler had been capped because of the water leak.
British Gas told this service the boiler was capped because it was unsafe, not due to a gas 
leak. It also said the engineers couldnt gain access to the boiler, which was a requirement of 
the terms and conditions of the policy. It said it couldnt complete the repair because of the 
access. 
Although British Gas has said it was unable to gain access to the boiler, its records show 
that on the day the boiler was capped, the engineer had parts with him to fit and was at Mr 
Ks property for about four and a half hours. British Gas has now also told this service:
As a result of trying to remove the back boiler unit, plastic components had become
broken and cracked and this would render it immediately dangerous, which Mr [K] was 
advised. So this would be why it was capped off due to incorrect working of an unsafe 
appliance and not a gas leak.
British Gas also told this service it didnt know whether the components were already broken 
or were broken by its engineer and then went on to say:
This was not caused through engineer error or poor work quality, the appliance needed 
repairing and this was the only way the engineers could attempt to do this and was 
requested by Mr [K]. I would like to reiterate that British Gas were called out to a fault with 
the appliance and did not cause this. Even if the plastic components were not damaged, 
ultimately, the boiler would have been capped soon after, as there was a water leak and we 
were not allowed / given access to complete the repair, meaning the water leak / damage 
would have become worse, causing the boiler to become dangerous.
So, I think British Gas provided Mr K with incorrect information during the visit, and in its 
response to the complaint, about why the boiler was capped. It wasnt because of a gas leak 
or a water leak, it was because of broken plastic components. 
However, British Gas doesnt think it needs to take any responsibility for the damaged plastic 
components or for the boiler being declared immediately dangerous. British Gas seems to 
be suggesting that its engineer was reluctant to attempt a repair and only did so at the 
request of Mr K. Even if that was the case, I havent currently seen evidence to show Mr K 
was warned of any risks around attempting the repair. British Gas has also said the engineer 
told Mr K the components had been broken and this made the boiler dangerous. But this is 
inconsistent with the evidence previously provided by British Gas. This includes British Gas 
response to Mr Ks complaint, which quoted the engineer as saying I capped the gas supply 
due to the boiler leaking water and the safety warning form that said it was due to a gas 
leak. 
British Gas has also argued that, regardless of the reason for the boiler being capped, it was 
inevitable the boiler would have become dangerous because the water leak/ damage would 
have got worse. I dont think the presence of the water leak, in itself, showed the boiler was 
dangerous. The company that serviced the boiler said it was safe to use. The water leak was 
also there at British Gas first visit, but it didnt consider the boiler to be unsafe at that time. 
Ive also seen no evidence from British Gas second visit that the water leak was assessed 
to be worse or likely to get worse.
Like British Gas, I cant say whether its engineer did or didnt cause the damage to the 
plastic components. I think because British Gas provided Mr K with misleading information 
both during the engineers visit and when Mr K complained, there isnt now a way to assess 
the damage itself or what might have caused it. In the circumstances, I currently think the 
fairest way to resolve this complaint is for British Gas to pay 50% of the cost of Mr Ks new 
boiler. I also intend to say British Gas should pay interest on that amount from the date on 
which Mr K paid the invoice to the date on which British Gas makes the payment. This is 
because Mr K lost use of that money.
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr K didnt think British Gas explanation of what 
happened was correct and he was concerned that British Gas had broken his boiler. British 
Gas seems to have provided Mr K with inaccurate information about why his boiler was 
declared unsafe and, even after investigating the complaint, still didnt give him the correct 
reason. I think this will have added to Mr Ks concerns about what happened to his boiler 
and why it was declared unsafe. As a result, I currently intend to say that British Gas should 
pay Mr K a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
because of the misleading information he was given about his boiler.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 October 2022.Mr K agreed with my decision and said that, in large part, what I had said should be done to 
resolve the complaint was what he had asked British Gas to do. Mr K also provided the 
invoices for the boiler and said he trusted British Gas would now pay.
British Gas disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary:
It described the type of policy Mr K had and said this didnt include servicing or a First 
Service. So British Gas hadnt inspected the boiler for pre-existing faults. Nevertheless, 
the policy terms and conditions contained exclusions for pre-existing issues with the 
boiler.
It described how the policy was first incepted and said Mr K would have had access to 
the full terms and conditions. It said British Gas didnt offer advice or recommendations 
for products. It was up to the customer to decide whether a product met their needs or 
requirements.
British Gas summarised some of the visits that had taken place and that at one of those 
visits the engineer had noted Parts req shouldnt even be doing this. It said it was 
reasonable to conclude from the wording used by the engineer that it was Mr K who had 
asked British Gas to do so. It said As the engineer had implied that the work was not 
covered, they had no other reason to continue and incur further costs, unless there were 
external influences at that time.
It added The engineer should have maintained the position that a repair could not be 
completed, however it is likely that the time of year was a contributing factor in what the 
customer chose to do at that time. It is our opinion that this is the only failing that can be 
attributed to British Gas.
British Gas again described the issue with the installation of the lintel, which made 
access difficult to carry out repairs. It said the policy conditions said the boiler should be 
readily accessible for inspection and maintenance.
It also quoted the wording from my provisional decision about the presence of the water 
leak not showing the boiler was dangerous. British Gas said it disagreed. It said boilers 
had electrical components. Although a water leak might not make a boiler unsafe in the 
short term, there would be longer term damage to the electrics, as well as corrosion. It 
said Mr K could have ignored the water leak indefinitely and he would have been in the 
same position.
British Gas said, for the avoidance of doubt, that the issue with the lintel wouldnt have 
become apparent during a repair visit that took place a few months previously, as the 
valve that was replaced at that time was a separate component located away from the 
back boiler.
It said that despite what Mr K had said about the age of his appliance, its records 
indicated that the appliance is reduced service listed. Manufacturers are only obliged to 
provide spare parts for a period of 10 years after manufacturing ceased. So, it said it was 
able to conclude that the boiler was more than 10 years old.
British Gas then said that even if the boiler had been installed more recently, the policy 
conditions were clear that it would only be replaced if it couldnt be repaired and its less 
than seven years old, not installed within seven years. It said the installer could have 
had the boiler in stock for some time before it installed it. British Gas said it was satisfied 
that Mr Ks boiler didnt meet the criteria for a replacement under the policy, which was 
the basis on which Mr K had raised his complaint initially.
It said the issues werent the result of engineer negligence, but were the result of poor 
installation or design fault. It said British Gas couldnt be held responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive carefully considered the points made by British Gas, 
but these dont change my view about how this complaint should be resolved. I will focus on 
what I consider to be the key issues.
British Gas told Mr K his boiler had been condemned due to a gas leak. It later told Mr K it 
had actually been condemned due to a water leak. British Gas later explained to this service 
that neither of these explanations were correct. It said the boiler had been condemned 
because some parts had broken when a British Gas engineer tried to remove the back 
boiler.
British Gas has said its engineer wasnt responsible for the damage because he had 
implied the work wasnt covered. It said the engineer should have maintained his position 
and then speculated about Mr Ks reasons for asking the engineer to go ahead. As I said in 
my provisional decision, British Gas seems to be suggesting its engineer was reluctant to do 
the work but, even if that was the case, I havent seen any evidence that Mr K was warned of 
any risks around attempting the repair. I also havent seen any evidence that the engineer 
told Mr K the genuine reason for the why the boiler was condemned.
British Gas has, again, argued that the water leak would have meant Mr K needed to replace 
his boiler at a later point anyway. I remain of the view that the water leak, in itself, didnt 
make the boiler dangerous. Neither the engineer that serviced the boiler or British Gas 
condemned the boiler due to the water leak being present. Im aware that boilers have 
electrical components in them and can corrode, but that isnt why the boiler was condemned. 
It is speculation on British Gass part about what would have happened longer term and how 
much longer Mr K would have been able to use the boiler for if the engineer had declined to 
do any work.
British Gas has also said that the issues were due to poor installation or a design fault. I 
accept there were issues with how the boiler was installed. However, the boiler was 
condemned due to components breaking in the boiler when the engineer removed the back 
boiler.
British Gas has also said it isnt required to replace the boiler under the terms and conditions 
of the policy. But it isnt based on the boiler replacement terms and conditions that I am 
saying it needs to contribute towards the boiler. It is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, although I cant say with certainty that British Gass engineer broke the boiler, given 
the circumstances of what happened, including the misleading information British Gas 
provided to Mr K about why the boiler had been condemned, I think its fair and reasonable 
for British Gas to contribute towards its replacements. 
British Gas has also speculated about the age of Mr Ks boiler. When I thought about how 
much British Gas should contribute, I considered the age of the boiler. British Gass recent 
comments dont change my view on how the cost of the boiler should be settled.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay 50% of the cost of Mr Ks new boiler and pay interest on that amount. 
It should also pay an additional £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay 50% of the cost of Mr Ks new boiler, subject to him providing suitable evidence of 
the cost.
Pay 8% interest on that amount from the date on which Mr K paid the invoice to the date 
on which it makes the payment, subject to him providing suitable evidence of this.
Pay an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman