DRN-3339179
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer
under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr C alleges that the installer misled Mr C into
believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the
documents from the time of sale (which Mr C signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mr C says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr C did not accept our adjudicators view of the complaint but did not make any additional 
comments. As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to 
make a decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr C was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document.
The document tiled FEED  IN TARIIF AND PAYBACK, sets out the cash price of the solar 
panel system directly next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel 
system. Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly 
visible. This section also sets out that the solar panels would be funded with a 120-month 
(i.e. 10 year) loan from Ikano. And Mr C has signed directly beneath this section  so, I think 
he wouldve, at the very least, seen this comparison when he signed the document. Overall, 
I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the 
way he says he was told they would be. 
If Mr C had been told something different, on being asked to sign this document, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Cs 
understanding, at that time. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mr C would receive against the cash price  which shows the benefit would not be sufficient 
to pay for the solar panels within the term of the loan. Mr C took out finance to fund the 
purchase of the solar panel system, further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay not only 
the cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it was 
clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price of the 
solar panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by the 
system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which included 
interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Cs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman