DRN-2791029
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave her incorrect 
information about porting her mortgage. She asks that it refunds the early repayment charge 
(ERC) she paid. 
What happened
Miss R had a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage had several accounts with fixed interest 
rate products which included ERCs. Miss R intended to move house and contacted Halifax 
about this. Miss R said while there would be enough equity from her sale to pay for her 
purchase, she wanted to port part of the mortgage to avoid paying ERCs.
Halifax told Miss R that if she applied for a new mortgage within three months of repaying 
her mortgage (including the ERCs) shed be able to port her product and be entitled to a 
refund of the ERCs. Miss R bought the new property with her own funds. When she applied 
for a mortgage, Halifax said she couldnt apply until shed owned the property for six months. 
This meant shed be outside the time limit for porting.
Miss R says she suffered an injury after moving and the additional stress this problem with 
her mortgage caused hindered her recovery. And she didnt receive the final response letter 
sent by Halifax in February 2020, until it sent another copy in May. Halifax accepts it gave 
Miss R incorrect information and offered £450 compensation. Our investigator said this was 
fair. Miss R didnt agree. She said if shed been given correct information shed have 
arranged for her sale and purchase to take place on the same day. 
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations, so I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain why. In summary, I said Halifax should refund part of the ERCs and 
pay further compensation for the upset and trouble caused by its error. 
Neither party disagreed with what Id said or sent further comments or evidence. I see no 
reason to change my findings or decision from those in my provisional decision, and which 
are substantially as set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R had interest rate products which included ERCs. Miss R repaid her mortgage on 31 
January 2020, while the ERCs applied. And so, under the terms of the mortgage product, 
Halifax applied the ERCs.
The mortgage products were portable  they could be transferred to a new mortgage on 
another property. Miss R intended to port her products to avoid paying the ERCs. Halifax 
accepts it gave incorrect information to Miss R about porting. Miss R says Halifax should 
refund the ERCs in full because of this.
Miss R called Halifax in mid-December 2019 and Ive listened to a recording of this call. 
Miss R said shed sold her property but wanted to hold onto the mortgage until the ERCs on 
her accounts ended. The adviser said shed have to repay the mortgage when she sold the 
property. He said this is because Halifax cant have a mortgage on a property the borrower 
doesnt own. Miss R was disappointed as she said shed been told she only had to repay 
what she wanted. However, this information was correct, and I think its reasonable for 
Halifax to require a mortgage to be repaid when the security property is sold.
There was then a discussion about how Miss R could avoid paying the ERCs, and about 
porting. Miss R said while she had enough equity from her sale to buy the new property, she 
wanted to port part of her mortgage to avoid paying any ERCs.
Halifaxs adviser said Miss R could port her products to a new mortgage on her new 
property. The adviser said Miss R could only avoid paying the ERCs if the sale and purchase 
happened on same day. He said the ERCs could be refunded if Miss R repaid the mortgage 
(including the ERCs) and started a new application within three months. He confirmed that 
Miss R would get all of the ERCs refunded regardless of the amount of the new mortgage.
After selling her property and buying a new one a few days later Miss R applied to port her 
mortgage. Halifax said Miss R couldnt apply for a mortgage until shed owned the property 
for six months. This meant Miss R couldnt apply for a mortgage on the new property within 
the porting time limit.
The information given to Miss R by Halifaxs adviser in December 2019 wasnt clear and it 
wasnt correct. Its unlikely Halifax would have refunded all of the ERCs if Miss R only ported 
part of the mortgage. More importantly, Miss R had told Halifax she was buying a property 
and could fund this herself. It didnt tell her if she bought a property with her own funds she 
wouldnt later be able to take out a mortgage and port the products.
I think Halifax should have told Miss R that to port her product (and avoid paying the ERCs) 
she needed to make a porting application for the purchase of the new property. This was the 
case whether her sale and purchase happened on the same day or with a gap between 
them.
I think if Miss R had been given correct information in December 2019 shed have made a 
porting application for her purchase. However, this doesnt mean its fair to require Halifax to 
refund all of the ERCs. I need to decide if Miss R is worse off due to Halifaxs error.
First, I should say that Miss Rs porting application might not have been successful. Her 
application would have been subject to an affordability assessment and Halifaxs lending 
criteria.
Second, there would have been costs involved in taking out a mortgage on the new property, 
such as a valuation fee and legal costs. And having taken out a new mortgage Miss R would 
have paid interest on the debt until it was repaid. Miss R didnt need to port the mortgage to 
fund her purchase  she was able to buy the property from her own funds. So I need to 
balance the cost of paying the ERCs against the interest and transaction costs Miss R would 
have incurred if shed ported the mortgage products to decide if shes worse off.
The products on two of the accounts (with a total balance of about £18,500) expired at the 
end of February 2020. So Miss R would not have paid much interest on these accounts if 
shed ported the product. The ERCs for these accounts totalled about £372.
The product on the third account (of about £8,000) expired in 2023 and the product on the 
last account (of about £22,000) expired in 2024. These accounts had ERCs of about £325 and £1,100 respectively. In January 2020 the monthly interest on these two accounts was 
about £83. While the interest would reduce each month as the balance reduced, this still 
meant Miss R would have paid some £800 to £900 of interest over the first 12 months if she 
had ported these products. And she couldnt have repaid these accounts until 2023 or 2024 
without paying an ERC, and so shed have incurred interest costs for this period. Its likely 
this would cost more  over time  than the ERCs.
However, Miss R was caused upset and trouble by being given the wrong information. She 
missed the opportunity to make a porting application and to make a decision about whether 
to go ahead. She had to pay the costs of the ERCs in one lump sum while porting would 
have meant the interest costs would have been spread over several years, meaning shed 
have had use of the money in the meantime. I think its right that Halifax offered 
compensation, but I think it should offer more than £450.
Putting things right
I think Halifax should refund part of the ERCs. I think £450  about a quarter of the ERCs 
Miss R paid  would be fair. I also think it should pay £250 for the upset and trouble this 
matter has caused Miss R. Halifax says its already paid £450 to Miss R, so it should pay her 
another £250 if she accepts my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay £700 to 
Miss R (less any compensation it has already paid to her). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman