DRN-3348050
The complaint
Mr K and Miss S complain about the poor service they received from London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd (L&C) when they were completing on a house purchase and used L&C as a 
mortgage broker.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr K and Miss S approached their mortgage broker, L&C about a new 
mortgage to assist in the purchase of a property. L&C sourced a mortgage offer from a 
lender that I shall call Lender A. As they hadnt completed by December and a more 
preferential rate of 1.44% was available Mr K and Miss S got a revised mortgage offer which 
issued on 11 December 2019 and was valid until 30 June 2020.
As Mr K and Miss S didnt think their intended purchase would complete before the
mortgage offer was due to expire, they got in touch with L&C and asked if the offer could be 
extended. On 27 May 2020, Lender A told L&C that as the offer was made before March 
2020, it would automatically extend until 30 September 2020.
On 28 August 2020, L&C got in touch with Mr K and Miss S to ask for an update on their 
move. Miss S told them they had a completion date of 3 September 2020. But on the day 
before they were due to complete, Mr K and Miss Ss solicitors were told by Lender A that 
they couldnt draw down the mortgage funds, as the valuation connected to their mortgage 
offer had expired. Mr K and Miss S managed to request a new valuation directly from the 
lender and it was agreed this would take place on 3 September 2020, the agreed completion 
date, so the funds could be released the same day.
The revised valuation was completed on 3 September 2020, at which point Lender A told
L&C that Mr K and Miss S wouldnt be able to access the mortgage product outlined in their 
existing offer. Lender A said that this was because the mortgage product had expired on 
their systems with effect from 30 June 2020.
Lender A told L&C that the only way funds could be released that day was if Mr K
and Miss S took out what Lender A described as a like for like three-year fixed rate
mortgage, at a higher interest rate of 1.69%. Lender A explained it could potentially provide 
the original mortgage at 1.44% but wouldnt be able to do so until at least the following day, 
due to its mortgage system requiring the product to be rebuilt.
Mr K and Miss S agreed to proceed with mortgage offer which would enable funds to
be released on the purchase date and the mortgage completed on 3 September 2020.
Mr K and Miss S complained to both Lender A and L&C about how their mortgage 
application had been handled. Their complaint to L&C was in brief that the broker should 
have made them aware when their offer was extended of any potential issues relating to the 
valuation connected to their mortgage offer.
L&C said that once the mortgage offer issued the application became the responsibility of Mr 
K and Miss Ss solicitors. It said that as it didnt hold information on the valuation, it wasnt in 
a position to communicate any possible issues to them. L&C offered £50 to Mr K and Miss S 
as it said it felt its adviser couldve done more to progress the request for a new valuation, 
once aware it had expired.
Mr K and Miss S werent happy with L&Cs response, so they contacted our service and 
asked us to look into their complaint. They requested L&C pay compensation to recognise 
the stress and anxiety caused by its actions, and to refund the daily amount of interest lost, 
due to late completion of the exchange.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that by 27 May 
2020 L&C had enough information to make Mr K and Miss S aware of at least approximately 
when their valuation was due to expire and that it was incorrect for L&C to have indicated 
that Lender A would contact them on expiry of the valuation as Lender A hadnt said it would 
do so. Our investigator recommended that L&C pay them compensation of £300. L&C 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Miss S have several complaints about L&Cs service but central to their complaint 
is that L&C failed to alert them when the valuation which supported the mortgage offer was 
going to expire. Mr K and Miss S only realised the issue that this valuation had expired on 
the eve of completion when their solicitor couldnt draw down the completion moneys from 
Lender A.
As I understand it L&Cs position is that after the offer issued the carriage of the mortgage 
was in the hands of Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor and in any case it was unaware of when the 
valuation was done.  L&C did tell Mr K and Miss S in an email on 25 May 2020:
Lender A have confirmed they can extend your mortgage offer by three months. However, 
once the valuation is over 12 months old, they are likely to ask you to pay the £200 valuation 
fee again, so that they can conduct an updated valuation.
The problem with that information is that it doesnt tell Mr K and Miss S when the twelve 
months expires and suggests that the alert will come from Lender A when Lender A will ask 
for £200 for a new valuation. It also doesnt tell Mr K and Miss S what would happen if the 
valuation which supported the mortgage offer expired.
Should L&C have gone further and warned Mr K and Miss S of the consequences of the 
valuation expiring? I recognise that L&C werent aware of the original valuation date but 
given they handled the application might reasonably be expected to know in general terms 
when the valuation was carried out as the approval of the application depended on it.  L&C 
says that after getting the mortgage offer its role in effect was concluded and other parties 
are there to assist Mr K and Miss S. I note that in its welcome letter of July 2019, L&C 
recognised that after the mortgage offer issued, it had a limited but continuing role to help to 
ensure matters progress as smoothly as possible. Its also clear that in this case L&C 
played a continuing role after Miss S sought assistance from them in May 2020 when L&C 
then contacted Lender A. 
I would have thought that it was reasonable, if it wanted to ensure matters progress 
smoothly, that L&C alert Mr K and Miss S as to what would happen if the valuation passed 
the twelve-month period. The suggestion in the email is that there would simply be a further valuation initiated by Lender A and not that the mortgage couldnt be drawndown if the 
valuation expired or that Mr K and Miss S should contact Lender A about a valuation to 
insure it didnt expire. L&C says it didnt know the date of the original valuation but as it was 
in correspondence with Lender A it could have clarified that with Lender A. I also dont 
consider passing a warning/advice to Mr K and Miss S that the offer may lapse without a 
new valuation and finding out when it would lapse to be particularly onerous - a simple email 
would have covered that - and is something that I would have expected L&C to have done in 
paying due regard to its customers interests. As L&C failed to take the above measures, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
I recognise Mr K and Miss S suffered a particularly stressful time when they found that they 
were unable to drawdown the completion money and I believe that an award of 
compensation of £300 is appropriate. But as L&C was told by Lender A that the mortgage 
product that Mr K and Miss S were offered would be available until the end of September, I 
cant fairly say that L&C was responsible for the higher mortgage interest that Mr K and Miss 
S had to pay when it wasnt available.
Putting things right
London and Country Mortgages Ltd should pay Mr K and Miss S £300.
My final decision
I uphold his complaint and require London and County Mortgages Ltd to pay the 
compensation referred to above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman