DRN-1515413
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has settled a claim 
they made for stolen sports equipment under the Contents in the Open section of their 
contents policy, rather than the Out and About section of it.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr P discovered that sports equipment had been stolen from the boot of 
his car while it was parked on his drive overnight. 
Mr and Mrs P called RSA to make a claim for the stolen equipment under the Out and 
About section of their policy. They told RSA the car had been locked. They said CCTV 
showed the thief opening the car, getting in and taking the equipment. And they said the 
Police thought it was almost certain that the thief had used a remote electronic device to get 
into the car.
RSA didnt think the claim was covered under the Out and About section of the policy. It 
said this section includes a term specifically excluding theft from unattended motor vehicles 
unless force and violence were used to get into the vehicle. 
But RSA did think the claim was covered by the Contents in the Open section of the policy. 
This covers loss or damage to contents while theyre in the open on the land belonging to a 
policyholders home. The policy limit for this section is £750. So RSA offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs P £750 to settle the claim.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with RSAs offer, although they accepted it as an interim 
payment. Thats because the stolen sports equipment had been worth significantly more 
than RSAs offer. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. She felt the CCTV and 
Polices comments suggested that Mr P had taken reasonable care to secure his car. She 
noted that RSA accepted the thief had gained entry to the car by a remote device. So she 
didnt think it was fair for RSA to rely on the force and violence exclusion. She recommended 
that RSA should deal with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint under the Out and About section of the 
policy. And she recommended it pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation.
RSA disagreed with the investigator. It referred to case law which set out what the courts 
had decided constituted force and violence. It didnt agree that the use of an electronic 
device to gain entry constituted force accompanied by a violent physical act. It said the 
exclusion was clear and unambiguous.
RSA also thought that Mr P couldve taken the equipment into his home overnight, rather 
than leaving it in the boot. It stated he hadnt taken reasonable care of his equipment by 
leaving it in the car when there was a high risk of theft. It also referred to previous decisions 
made by this service about similar complaints.The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think RSA has 
treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover for theft from an unattended motor vehicle if force and 
violence was used to gain entry into the car and if the stolen items were out of sight in a boot 
or a closed compartment.
Mr and Mrs P have said, and RSA accepts, that entry to the car was gained by using a 
remote electronic device. Where a theft involves a device of this kind, I agree  that when 
taking account of the relevant case law  it wouldnt be considered to be forcible and violent 
entry. Thats because a device that wouldnt normally be used to gain entry to the car hasnt 
been used.
But my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy covers theft. In this case, Im satisfied that a genuine theft has taken 
place. Mr P told us he always locks his car. Hes told us the equipment was stored out of 
sight in the car boot. And hes consistently said the police told him the car had almost 
certainly been broken into using a remote electronic device. RSA appeared to accept this 
was most likely to have been what had happened. 
I also accept what Mr and Mrs P have told me. I also think its most likely Mr P stored the 
equipment in the boot and locked his car. On balance, I think the theft was carried out by 
someone using an electronic device. 
RSA doesnt believe Mr P took reasonable care to prevent loss by leaving the items in his 
car. I think that by keeping the items out of sight and locking the car, which was stored on his 
own property, Mr P did take reasonable care of the equipment. I dont think he chose to court 
the risk of theft and wouldnt have expected a theft to occur from his driveway overnight.
Overall, I think Mr P did everything he could reasonably do to make sure his car was locked. 
So I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if I allowed RSA to rely on 
there not being forcible and violent entry to not deal with the claim under the Out and About 
section of the policy.
RSA has referred to other cases that it thinks are similar where ombudsmen have felt it was 
fair for them to turn down claims. However, we decide all cases on their own individual 
merits. Ive explained above why I dont think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in this 
particular case.
I dont think it was fair for RSA to deal with Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the Contents in the 
Open section of the policy. To put things right, I think it must now reconsider the claim under 
the Out and About section of the policy. RSA has already paid Mr and Mrs P £750 to settle 
their claim, so its entitled to deduct this amount from any further payment due.
The investigator recommended that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for 
its lack of empathy when it turned down their claim. Overall, I think RSA handled Mr and Mrs 
Ps claim in a reasonably timely way. I can see though that there was a bit of a delay in 
issuing the interim payment. And given what Mr Ps told us about how RSAs handling of the claim affected him, at an already difficult time, I feel a modest award for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate. I agree with the investigator that an award of £100 feels fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps     
complaint.
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the 
Out and About section of the policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. As it has already paid Mr and Mrs P £750 in settlement of their claim, its entitled to 
deduct this amount from any settlement paid.
I also direct RSA to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for the trouble and upset its 
handling of their claim has caused them.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman