DRN-3332681
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy at the interest and charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) added to his 
account  he says the charges kept him in a cycle of debt.
What happened
Mr W complained to Santander that the overdraft charges were keeping him in a cycle of 
debt and that he was financially dependent on the overdraft and that Santander failed to 
offer adequate support. Santander says all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr W disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr W has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mr W fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mr W unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr Ws statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that Santander ought to have realised Mr W might have been experiencing financial 
difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr W may argue that his regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. I can see that from January 2020 when Santander starting charging Mr W for the 
use of the overdraft facility that although Mr W was using his overdraft regularly a healthy 
salary was being paid in which brought his overdraft down and sometimes into credit. And 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over his expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of cash withdrawals, transfers 
and non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
While by themselves these amounts werent enough to pay off his overdraft in full, but it was 
certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable time should he have 
chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr W didnt experience financial difficulties. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Santander to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account 
each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit 
balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ws account was 
being used. And I dont think that Santander treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I he understands the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman