DRN-3233157
Complaint
Miss N has complained about an overdraft Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) provided to her. She 
says the overdraft was unaffordable as her income was made up solely from benefits.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss N and Monzo had told us. And she thought 
Monzo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss N unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Miss Ns complaint be upheld. Miss N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ns complaint.
Monzo needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Monzo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss N 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I think its important for me to start by saying that while Miss N initially said that she did not 
ask for an overdraft of £1,000.00, I can see that not only did she apply for an overdraft of this 
amount she also asked for it to be increased. But Monzo declined to increase Miss Ns 
overdraft limit above £1,000.00.
Monzo says it agreed to the applications it did after it carried out a credit search. Its unclear 
whether Monzo asked Miss N anything else about her financial circumstances at the time. 
But it says there was nothing in the information it obtained from the credit reference agency 
which warranted further checks or suggested that what was being advanced was 
unaffordable.
On the other hand, Miss N has said that she wasnt working and as her income was made 
up solely from benefits she shouldnt have been lent to. 
Ive thought about what Miss N has said. But Im not aware of any prohibition on lending to 
consumers on benefits. Indeed, any blanket policy failing to take into account the particular 
circumstances of a prospective borrower and instead automatically declining an application 
on the basis of their income being made up of benefits could be arbitrary and discriminatory. 
And such a policy is unlikely to be fair and reasonable. 
As a lender is able to lend to a customer on benefits it follows that it is allowed to charge for 
this providing its affordable. So Im satisfied that Miss Ns income being made up of benefits 
in itself doesnt mean that it was unfair to lend to her. Miss N also suggested that she had 
County Court Judgements (CCJ). But Monzo has provided a copy of the information it 
received from the credit reference agency about Miss N. And I cant see any record of a CCJ 
on here.
Finally, while I appreciate that Miss N has gone through a difficult period, I dont think that 
the fact her income was made up of benefits meant that Monzo ought to have been aware of 
this. Ive therefore assessed whether there was anything else in the information obtained 
which suggested the overdraft provided was unaffordable.    
I think that it would be useful for me to start by explaining that Miss N wasnt required to 
repay the entire £1,000.00 in one go. Miss Ns overdraft was a revolving credit facility and 
this meant that what Monzo had to assess was whether Miss N could repay the maximum 
amount she could borrow, plus any interest, within a reasonable period of time. Given what 
Ive been told about Miss Ns income and expenditure, I do think that there was a reasonable 
prospect of her repaying what she owed within a reasonable period of time.
I know that Miss Ns position did worsen. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective 
value judgements over Miss N expenditure, nonetheless her indebtedness grew because 
significant amounts of were transferred from this account to a different one with another 
bank. I dont think that Monzo could reasonably have expected Miss N to do this. And it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that Monzo should have 
anticipated this would happen. 
Ive also seen that when Miss N did get in contact to explain that she was struggling, Monzo 
refunded some of the charges it added. It also took corrective action and removed the 
overdraft from Miss Ns account reasonably quickly, crucially without allowing the balance to 
spiral of control before doing so. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Monzo did exercise 
forbearance and due consideration when Miss N explained she was having difficulty 
repaying what she owed.
So overall while its unclear whether Monzos checks, did go far enough, bearing in mind 
what I do know about Miss Ns circumstances in the period leading up to the application, I 
dont think that proportionate checks would have stopped Monzo from lending to Miss N. As 
this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss N. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Monzo of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect the outstanding balance 
remaining on the account given it is now aware of Miss Ns medical condition and she say 
shes experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman