DRN-3520358
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their home insurer, esure Insurance Limited, and its contractors 
caused huge problems with their subsidence claim and failed to take remedial action causing 
them to live in a state of disrepair for ten years. They also complain that they have incurred 
professional and repair costs that esure should reimburse.
 
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in May 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
In 2011, following a structural engineers report on movement of brickwork at Mr and Mrs Ms 
home, they made a claim to esure for subsidence damage. esure appointed loss adjusters 
and they accepted the claim and identified nearby vegetation as the cause. 
The loss adjusters put monitoring of the property in place and this continued at intervals over 
the next ten years. They sent drainage specialists to check and they found numerous, minor 
cracks. They instructed a botanical investigation which found some roots in the drainage and 
recommended the drainage be replaced following the removal of the vegetation.
The loss adjusters thought that provided there was no further movement after the removal of 
the vegetation no stabilisation would be needed, only internal and drainage repairs. Mr and 
Mrs M disagreed and said there was cracking and distortion in their brickwork visible. 
esures loss adjuster reported in May 2021 no evidence of movement. In June the loss 
adjuster confirmed the findings and said a bulge in the gable wall was due to a lack of tie or 
restraint and wasnt an insured matter being unrelated to the subsidence. Notwithstanding 
this, esure offered to fund half the cost of repairs. The loss adjusters put forward an offer of 
cash settlement in respect of this and other outstanding brick and junction repairs. 
Mr and Mrs M said the offer didnt deal with other damage previously agreed to be covered. 
They had obtained a builders quote for the work and esure paid this in the sum of £23,088. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to esure about the decisions and handling of their claim. They had 
ten elements to the complaint and esure responded and referred to its previous offer of £500 
compensation as sufficient. Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said works to the front 
wouldnt be covered as they arent subsidence-related as per the loss adjusters report. And 
she didnt think potential costs needed to be covered. She didnt think we could require 
esure to provide cover to a future purchaser of the property or be accountable for potential 
injury from the repairs. And she said Mr and Mrs M hadnt complained to esure about inflated 
premiums and she couldnt consider this. She thought the £500 compensation was fair.
 
Mr and Mrs M said most of their complaint issues had been resolved, such as the further 
movement of their home, the cash settlement and further work required. They said theyre 
also satisfied about cover for injury, guarantees to a new buyer and future conditions and 
payments. But they said the following issues were outstanding.
Mr and Mrs M want comments by the loss adjuster in 2015 accepting front elevation work as 
part of the subsidence claim to be considered and his qualifications. And esure will review 
the amount of the builders quote if it should rise. They said they should be compensated for 
inflated premiums from 2019 to 2021, but hadnt received any compensation from esure and 
felt that £500 didnt reflect the lack of care and delays by esure and its agents and the effect 
on Mrs Ms work. They said poor repairs meant their gable wall will need to be re-built. 
Mr and Mrs M request £1,000 compensation for each year of the claim for the structural 
damage inflicted by esures contractors and the distress and hundreds of hours spent on the 
claim. Mr and Mrs M said no stabilisation has been done and theyve been living in a state of 
disrepair in the right side of the property as the right flank wall needs to be re-built. 
Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied with the investigators response to their complaint and 
requested it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Im pleased that many of Mr and Mrs Ms issues have been resolved, primarily by payment 
of their builders quote. I also understand that professional fees Mr and Mrs M incurred have 
been reimbursed. I have concentrated on those issues they have said are outstanding in a 
summary which forms part of their letter of 6 December 2021 to our service. 
Mr and Mrs M request esure cover increased costs that may apply to a quote they obtained. 
I think that it would be fair for esure to consider a revised quote from builders carrying out 
repairs to Mr and Mrs Ms home should the original quote be superseded by increased costs.
Increased premiums Mr and Mrs M say theyve paid from 2019 and 2021 is a complaint that 
has to be considered by esure before we can consider it. Mr and Mrs M said they raised this 
with esure by phone, but without response. I havent seen anything to show this has been 
considered by esure, so I suggest Mr and Mrs M bring a new complaint about this and any 
issues that remain outstanding from the present complaint. They should be aware that its 
not unusual for premiums to increase following a significant claim.
Ive looked at the timeline and detail of the events helpfully provided by Mr and Mrs M, and 
esures business records of the claim in order to decide if the £500 compensation offered by 
esure is fair. I can see there have been delays on both sides, though more on esures side 
and Ive seen examples of poor service by esure and its agents. Mr and Mrs M have 
acknowledged the delays for which they were responsible, some of which were unavoidable. 
Ive looked at the communications concerning damage to the gable end wall and the differing 
opinions as to the cause. I dont think theres reason to find that esure committed to covering 
all the repairs under the claim as past comments and loss adjuster of 2015 and 2016 have 
been superseded by a subsequent report. This describes the damage as unrelated to 
subsidence. I realise this runs counter to the findings of Mr and Mrs Ms structural engineer, 
but I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that delayed drainage and other works caused 
the distortion evident in the gable wall. Nevertheless, Im pleased esure has offered half the 
cost of the repair and given some of the contradictory messages about this in the past, and 
the likely deterioration of the wall since the problem was first raised, I think this is fair. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs M lost confidence in esures previous loss adjuster and feel that 
he made decisions to the detriment of their property. In my view, subsequent agreement of 
the repairs and the cash settlement override these issues and I can see no benefit to an 
examination of the loss adjusters qualifications or previous communications.esure has offered Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation in respect of its failures during the 
claim. Having considered all that has happened I dont think this reflects the impact of esure 
and its agents poor service on Mr and Mrs M. It is inherent within any complex and long-
running claim such as with subsidence damage that multiple parties will be involved and the 
policyholders will need to devote a great deal of time and energy to the pursuit of their claim. 
However, there have been delays, such as for the repair of the drains, and successive poor 
communications where aspects of the claim were ignored as were reasonable questions put 
by Mr and Mrs M. Some of the work carried out doesnt appear to be of a very high standard 
and had to be re-done and the proposed repairs were amended by the loss adjusters without 
much explanation. I can see this added to the stress that Mr and Mrs M were suffering and 
had an impact on their enjoyment of their home and Mrs Ms work. Because some delay and 
stress caused were avoidable, I currently think that compensation of £1,000 would be a 
fairer reflection of the stress and inconvenience they have suffered. 
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint and require esure to consider any increased 
costs that may apply to the builders quote Mr and Mrs M obtained and esure has accepted. 
I also intended to require esure to pay Mr and Mrs M £1,000 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they have suffered as a consequence of poor service during the claim.
 
In response, Mr and Mrs M set out the timeline of their claim and said it took until June 2020 
for drainage repairs to be completed. They said their structural engineer had speculated the 
cause of damage could be due to an escape of water and they asked if a damp and timber 
survey should be carried out. Mr and Mrs M said the damp brickwork is still apparent and 
they think drying out may take many years to resolve, which would impact on resale and so 
they asked about recompense for this. And asked if they should disclose the claim in future.
Mr and Mrs M said they appreciate the bulge in the wall of the right-hand aspect of their 
home is historic and attributable to lack of lateral restraint and unrelated to their subsidence 
claim. Despite this esure agreed to meet half the cost of repair work as recompense for its 
failures on the claim, but the work still hasnt been carried out. Mr and Mrs M set out their 
engineers recommendations about work to the gable end wall.
Mr and Mrs M clarified that the lack of repair work afforded a lack of protection to the gable 
end wall leading to its deterioration. They asked if previously agreed compensation relating 
to a quote for the removal of vegetation could now be paid. Mr and Mrs M said it may be 
difficult for them to obtain insurance cover following their claim and esure wouldnt clarify if it 
would be prepared to transfer cover to a purchaser of their home. 
Mr and Mrs M said they called esure in September 2020 about their renewal premium, but 
this hasnt been resolved. They were pleased that esure will consider a revised builders 
quote if thats necessary. Mr and Mrs M acknowledged that the decisions they questioned 
from the previous loss adjuster involved in their claim, no longer influence their claim. But 
they still requested an investigation of the qualifications of loss adjusters used by esure. 
esure had no further comments to make concerning the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I hope Mr and Mrs M dont consider it a discourtesy if I havent referred to all of the points in 
their letter of response to my provisional decision and their background document. 
Mr and Mrs M ask me to consider the comments of their structural engineer about the cause 
of damage to their home. I have considered all the expert evidence and I think esure has 
correctly categorised the claim as relating to subsidence. Im not an engineer so I cant say if 
further surveys should be conducted. Mr and Mrs M should put this proposal to esure if they 
consider it to be necessary.
There are many different factors which can affect the sale value of a property. I havent 
found any mistake by esure to be capable of linking to a forthcoming sale value and I dont 
think it fair to require it to pay recompense. Mr and Mrs M will need to answer any questions 
about previous claims accurately to a prospective new insurer.
Ive reconsidered Mr and Mrs Ms structural engineers comments about their gable end wall. 
These run counter to esures report which states the damage is unrelated to subsidence. In 
the absence of any new evidence I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair to require esure 
to cover all the repairs under the claim. As I said in my provisional decision, Im pleased 
esure agreed to meet half the cost of relevant repairs and I trust the repairs can now 
proceed. I have noted again that esure has paid the full builders quote obtained by Mr and 
Mrs M. And their builder should provide any rationale behind further or new costs. This can 
then be provided to esure.  
The compensation to which Mr and Mrs M have referred of £715 + VAT relates to a 
contractors estimate to carry out work from 2015 and has been superseded by the 
development of the claim since then.
Insurers are entitled to make commercial decisions, including who or what they wish to 
insure and how much to charge for the cover. These arent matters with which our service 
would interfere. And so, I cant reassure Mr and Mrs M that esure will continue to offer cover 
to any prospective purchaser of their home. And I cant tell esure what to charge Mr and Mrs 
M for future premiums or what conditions to include within their policy. However, if Mr and 
Mrs M feel they are being unfairly treated they can bring a complaint to their insurer and 
subsequently to our service. Our service recommends policyholders remain with their home 
insurers during subsidence claims.
Concerning the increased premiums Mr and Mrs M have paid, they said that they called 
esure in September 2020 about their renewal premium and esure explained the reasons. I 
dont doubt this, the point I made in my provisional decision was that there was nothing to 
show a complaint had been made to esure about this and our service cant consider an issue 
until it has been considered by the business.
  
Im pleased to see Mr and Mrs M state that the decisions made by the loss adjuster 
previously involved in their claim which they had called into question, no longer influences 
their claim. I see no benefit in investigating the qualifications of the loss adjusters involved. 
Putting things right
Having re-considered the award of compensation I put forward in my provisional decision, I 
remain of the view that £1,000 is about the right compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs M have suffered during their claim as a consequence of esure 
and its agents poor service. 
I also remain of the view that esure should consider and where reasonable agree any 
increased costs for the repair work shortly to commence at Mr and Mrs Ms home.My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £1,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused them. esure Insurance Limited may deduct from this amount 
any compensation it has already paid.
I also require esure Insurance Limited to consider any increased costs that may apply to the 
builders quote Mr and Mrs M obtained and esure has accepted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman