DRN-4169934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the decision by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to turn down a subsidence claim made under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold buildings insurance with LV. Within a year of moving into their property, 
they noticed their retaining garden wall had started to move outwards, which affected the 
adjoining patio. They also noticed some cracks to the mortar joints of the outer wall of the 
house, and some bricks were starting to fracture. They made a subsidence claim under the 
policy. 
LV arranged for two loss adjusters to carry out inspections. They both concluded there was 
no subsidence damage to the house, and so LV turned down the claim. Unhappy with this, 
Mr and Mrs S brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the available 
reports didnt show that the home had suffered subsidence damage, so concluded that it had 
been reasonable for LV to turn down the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the complaint above in far less detail than the parties have done. I 
recognise Mr and Mrs S have gone to great lengths to explain why they think their claim is 
payable, though Im not going to respond to every point thats been made. Thats not meant 
as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
The policy says:
We will provide the following cover for any loss or damage to the building up to the limit of 
cover shown in your schedule:

5. Subsidence or heave of the site on which the building stands or landslip, but not:
If the main structure of your home or domestic outbuildings is not damaged at the 
same time, by the same cause
Words in bold are specifically defined within the policy.
Subsidence is defined as downward movement of ground other than by settlement.
Heave is defined as upward movement of ground.
Landslip is defined as movement of ground down a slope.
The report provided by the first loss adjuster appointed by LV said there was some minor 
cracking noted to the rear corner of the building. They said this wasnt consistent with 
subsidence and was more likely the result of wrongly placed wall ties. They accepted that 
the garden retaining wall had moved and resulted in displacement to the patio. They thought 
this was because the wall had no substantial foundation. But they pointed out that a claim 
would only be covered if the home was also damaged by the same cause. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this report (as I understand there were no wall ties used in 
that part of the wall). LV therefore appointed another loss adjuster who carried out their own 
inspection. 
The second loss adjuster said there was no evidence of any recent or progressive 
foundation movement affecting the house, and therefore a valid subsidence claim did not 
arise. They thought the cracks to the brickwork were the result of thermal movement, with 
some possibly related to the twisting of the wall. They confirmed the cracks had not been 
caused by any foundation movement. The loss adjuster said it was clear the garden wall had 
no formal foundations, and was therefore subject to the effects of seasonal movement of the 
sub-soil. They also said the movement of the wall was clearly affecting the patio, which was 
settling and moving as the wall moved. They said complete failure of the garden wall would 
continue to affect the patio and would have no effect on the main house. 
Mr and Mrs S have provided reports from two building firms.
One report said there were cracks to the corner of the property, and in the surrounding areas 
a retaining wall was leaning outwards, and a patio had significantly dropped causing cracks 
to appear. They said that meant there was evidence of the ground heaving away from the 
property. They noted the retaining wall had been built with shallow foundations, and said it 
needed to be rebuilt, and the patio should be excavated to see if there was any damage to 
drainage pipes.
The second report said one end of the retaining wall was showing strong signs of heave as it 
was moving outwards, and that where it had rotated, a gap between the wall and patio had 
opened significantly. They said that as the wall moves, it was removing support for the patio. 
They also said there was some visible signs of cracking in the vertical mortar joints of the 
external wall to the house and fracturing of some of the bricks. They thought this would 
suggest this corner of the property was subject to some movement/stress. They noted there 
were two rainwater downpipes near the corner of the building, and thought these needed to 
be investigated to rule out a cracked drain leading to erosion of the soil under the foundation.
The policy is clear that a claim for subsidence can only be accepted if there is damage to the 
main house at the same time, by the same cause. Whilst its apparent that the retaining 
garden wall was moving, both loss adjusters agreed that there was no evidence of 
subsidence to the main house. Although one of the builders thought the main house may 
have been subject to some movement/stress, theres no evidence to support that this was 
caused by subsidence. As one of the loss adjusters pointed out in their report, damage due 
to subsidence or heave is usually shown by diagonal cracks. Thats not the case here. 
Mr S has his own expertise in this area. He says that as the retaining wall is moving 
outwards, it is a primary cause of landslip between the wall and the house. He describes 
landslip as sideways slippage. But the policy defines landslip as movement of ground down 
a slope. Theres no independent evidence to support his view that the house has been 
affected by this. Ive read Mr Ss correspondence with one of the loss adjusters where he says there is 
sideways movement to the brickwork. The loss adjuster didnt agree, but even if this were 
the case, this wouldnt fall under the policy definitions of subsidence, heave or landslip. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S as I know theyre really concerned 
about the damage, but Im satisfied it was reasonable for LV to turn down this claim as the 
evidence doesnt support that the damage is covered by the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman