DRN-4205183
The complaint
Mr D and Ms M are unhappy with the sale of their travel insurance policy by Post Office 
Management Services Limited.  
What happened
Mr D and Ms M took out an annual travel insurance policy. The policy was purchased online, 
and no advice was provided to them. 
Unfortunately, Mr D and Ms M had to cancel a planned holiday due to serious ill health. So 
they made a claim on their policy. 
They were unhappy with how the claim had been handled so they raised a complaint about 
the sale of the policy. They said the policy wasnt fit for purpose in terms of the way claims 
are processed. And, the Post Office should have done more to make sure the insurer would 
do what was expected in the event of a claim.
The Post Office responded to the complaint thanking them for their feedback and offering to 
contact the claims team if they were awaiting a response from them. 
Mr D and Ms M remained unhappy so they referred their complaint about the sale of the 
policy to this service. They also raised concerns about the handling of their complaint and 
the delay in the Post Office responding to it.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think the Post Office had acted 
unfairly when the policy was sold. 
Mr D and Ms M disagreed. In summary they said:
 
The Post Office havent done enough to ensure the claims process, when called 
upon, is suitable.
The Post Office should be held accountable for ensuring that the underwriter they 
chose can deliver on the commitments they made when selling the product.
There are multiple other customers highlighting very similar issues in online reviews.
They remained unhappy with the way their complaint was handled and the delays 
The case has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that those selling insurance on a non-advised 
basis are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the policy theyre selling.
Mr D and Ms M have explained the Post Office said the claims process would be hassle free 
and without delay. They said this didnt happen so the Post Office should be held 
accountable. But I dont think thats fair. 
There is a separate complaint at this service against the insurer of the policy, which is where 
the handling of the claim will be looked into.  Im unable to comment on how Mr D and Ms M 
have been treated during the claim as that is the responsibility of the insurer. 
My role is to look at the actions of the Post Office here. I must decide if they provided 
enough information to allow Mr D and Ms M to make an informed choice about whether the 
insurance was right for them. I would expect the Post Office to do this by drawing their 
attention to any key or unusual features of the policy, such as highlighting the significant 
exclusions and other restrictions on cover.
Mr D and Ms M were sent all the policy documents including the policy schedule,
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy wording by both email and post 
and they were able to view the documents via their online account. The policy
document provides details of the insurer/underwriter under the about your contract of
insurance section. And the IPID provides a summary of the main things the policy does and 
doesnt cover as well as highlighting the main restrictions to cover. So Im satisfied the Post 
Office met their obligations during the sale. 
I appreciate Mr Ds and Ms Ms frustrations that the claims journey wasnt what the Post 
Office had told them they would experience. But I dont think this means they were provided 
with misleading information during the sale. It isnt unusual for the seller of a policy to explain 
what type of cover the underwriter is offering, in this case a hassle free and fast claims 
response. As above, if the underwriter doesnt fulfil this promise, then they are the liable 
party.
Mr D and Ms M have provided a link to a website with reviews from other customers of the 
Post Office. But Im only considering if the Post Office have treated Mr D and Ms M fairly in 
the circumstances of this case. I dont deem reviews from other customers relevant here. But 
I appreciate that the negative reviews caused them concern during an already difficult time.
I understand Mr D and Ms M didnt receive a satisfactory response to their complaint and 
they dont think the Post Offices complaints process is fit for purpose. Whilst Im sorry to see 
the service and delays they experienced, our investigator has already explained we cant 
make an award for complaint handling in isolation when we arent upholding something 
relating to the activity we can consider. But in any event, I dont think an award is warranted 
here because Mr D and Ms M were still able to refer the matter to our service, despite not 
receiving a final response letter. So I dont think they were disadvantaged by the poor 
complaint handling service. Although I appreciate the efforts they put into complaining, this 
isnt something I would award compensation for. 
I know this isnt the answer Mr D and Ms M were hoping for, but I hope they understand the 
obligation on the Post Office was to provide the information they needed to make an 
informed choice about taking out the cover. And, Im satisfied the Post Office did enough, so 
I cant conclude the policy was mis-sold. And I dont think its fair to hold the Post Office 
accountable for the actions of the insurer in relation to how the claim was handled. That is 
the responsibility of the insurer and is being addressed in a separate complaint against 
them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman