DRN-1473019
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited doesnt have a full leather interior. Hes also unhappy about damage to the trim 
on the door frame and damage to a bottom on the drivers seat belt.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS.
In May 2019 Mr C noticed damage to the drivers seat. He also discovered that the seat belt 
retention button was broken on the inside of the seat belt. There was also a piece of trim 
which wasnt fitted correctly. Mr C contacted the main dealer who inspected the car and 
refitted the trim. It advised Mr C that the damage to the seat and the seatbelt was due to 
wear and tear and that the repairs wouldnt be covered under the warranty. 
Mr C took the car to a different garage in July 2019. The inspection report he obtained said 
the seat belt button was broken which had caused damage to the seat. The garage also 
advised Mr C that the seats werent 100% leather but were part leather part vinyl.
Mr C contacted MBFS to complain. In response, MBFS said the damage to the seatbelt and 
seat was due to wear and tear and that the product specification for the car said the seats 
were made from 80% leather and up to 20% man made leather. It said the car had been 
supplied with the correct specification and refused Mr Cs request to reject the car.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said hed been told 
by the dealership that the seats were 100% leather and that if hed been made aware that 
20% of the seats were man-made leather, he wouldve paid for the seats to be 100% leather 
or not purchased the car at all.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she thought it was likely that Mr C had 
been provided with inaccurate information about the seats at the point of supply but felt that 
even if Mr C had been provided with more accurate information about the seats, he wouldnt 
have changed his mind about the purchase. In relation to the damage to the seat and the 
seat belt, the investigator said she didnt think the evidence showed that this was a 
manufacturing fault.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed been given inaccurate information and that the car wasnt as 
described. He said hed been disappointed when he was told that the brochure was 
inaccurate and that the seats werent made from Nappa leather but was assured by the 
dealership that the seats were 100% leather. Mr C said that the 2018 brochure provided by 
the dealership didnt state that the seats were 80% leather and 20% man made leather. He 
said if hed been given this information, he wouldnt have purchased the car but wouldve 
purchased one of the other cars hed been interested in which had a full leather interior.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and  mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present or developing at the point of supply, and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr C first reported the issue with the trim on the door frame and the button on the drivers 
seat belt in or around May/June 2019.
Ive looked at the job cards from the garage. This says that the door trim was re-fitted. It also 
says the seat belt was caught in the door resulting in it breaking and causing further 
consequential damage.
Ive also looked at the report from the other garage Mr C took the car to. This says theres no 
evidence that the seat belt has been caught in the door and that the failure of the button is 
due to a manufacturing defect.
Where information is conflicting, as it is here, I must look at all the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances of the case in order to decide whether, on the balance of 
probabilities, the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Whilst I can see that the seat belt button is broken and whilst I am aware that the trim had to 
be re-fitted, I dont think its likely that this was a fault which was present at the point of 
supply. It was around 5 months after the point of supply that Mr C reported these issues. If 
the issues had been present at the point of supply I wouldve expected Mr C to report them 
much sooner. I cant be certain of exactly how the damage to the seatbelt button or the trim 
occurred. But I agree with the investigator that it seems plausible that the seatbelt button 
snapping in the way it has as Ive seen on the photos suggests some element of impact or 
force, which would be consistent with being shut in the car door as per the opinion of the 
dealer.
Even if the damage wasnt caused in this way, Im not persuaded that the damage was 
present at the point of supply. Because of this Im unable to say that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that goods must be as described. I can see from the 
order confirmation that the interior was described as black leather. I can also see that the 
2018 brochure says the car has Nappa leather upholstery. But its accepted by Mr C that 
when he discussed the interior with the dealership, it told him that the brochure wasnt 
accurate and that it wasnt made from Nappa leather. Mr C says it was during these 
discussions that the dealership told him that the seats were 100% leather.
Because I wasnt present when these discussions took place, I cant be certain of exactly 
what was said. However, its clear from the order confirmation and the sales brochure that 
the seats were described as leather. Its also clear from what Mr C has said that he was 
made aware that the brochure wasnt accurate.
The issue here is whether theres been a misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is an 
untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into the contract to his detriment. The untrue statement must be the main reason why the consumer entered into 
the contract.
Ive taken all the circumstances into account. The dealership has said that 100% leather isnt 
an option with this model of car. Mr C has said that if hed been made aware that the seats 
werent 100% leather, he wouldve purchased a different car.
On balance, and taking all of the available information into account, Im not persuaded that 
theres been an untrue statement of fact here. I dont think its untrue to describe the seats as 
leather because the majority of the seat (80%) is real leather and the rest is man-made 
leather. I dont agree with Mr C when he says that the word leather means real leather, 
because synthetic leather is often referred to as leather as well.
Further, Im not persuaded that Mr C would have withdrawn from the purchase if hed been 
told that the seats were 80% real leather and 20% man-made leather. Most of the seat, 
including the part which the driver sits on, is made of real leather. I havent seen any 
compelling evidence that Mr C was seriously considering any other type of car, nor have I 
seen any information to suggest that the other cars being considered by Mr C had full real 
leather interiors.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, Im unable to conclude that the car is of unsatisfactory quality or that 
theres been a misrepresentation. So, I wont be asking MBFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman