DRN-3247181
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that Unum Ltd trading as Unum Dental refused to refund their private 
dental insurance policy premiums for the period dental services were restricted due to the 
covid-19 pandemic or to extend the policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B had an annual dental policy arranged through Mr Bs employer. The premium 
was about £80 a month. The insurer was Unum.
On 23 March 2020 the UK government imposed a national lockdown due to the covid-19 
pandemic, leading to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the spread of the 
virus. Dental services reopened for treatments from about 8 June 2020.
Mrs and Mr B say it was unfair for Unum to charge the policy premium for the three months 
they werent able to get dental treatment due to the covid-19 restrictions. Mr B was due to 
retire from his employer in October 2020 and asked Unum to extend the policy, charging no 
further premiums for three months, but Unum refused. It offered Mr B a policy at a higher 
cost to cover him and Mrs B after hed retired, which they took.
Mrs and Mr B say when he retired theyd intended to take a more affordable lower level of 
cover and had considered changing to another insurer. But they couldnt get other insurance  
to cover any existing conditions and, although they werent aware of any, they felt tied to the 
Unum policy.  
Mrs and Mr B wanted Unum to provide three months premium refund or extended cover on 
the old policy terms and if thats agreed they want to be released from the new policy to take 
out alternative cover.
Unum said:
Its policies are 12 month contracts which cant be extended. 
Although Mrs and Mr B hadnt been able to attend a dental practice for routine dental 
treatment due to covid-19 restrictions they could have still claimed for any accident 
and emergency treatment they may have needed during that time. Any treatment Mrs 
and Mr B had planned which was cancelled as result of Covid-19 could be claimed in 
line with the policy benefits with proof from their dental practice.
It had made a covid promise to return exceptional profits to its members, it was 
considering how to administer that process and would contact Mrs and Mr B when 
finalised. Unum then told us it had later sent them a £80 voucher.
Our investigator said Unum acted fairly in not extending the original policy for three months. 
And Unum wasnt responsible for other insurers not accepting Mrs and Mr Bs pre-existing 
conditions under alternative insurance.
Mrs and Mr B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary their main 
additional points are:
They paid Unum for three months dental cover when no normal dental cover was 
available and the £80 voucher was only about a third of what they paid for those 
months. The £80 had been paid months after they complained and wouldnt cover 
any expensive treatments if required.
During lockdown Mr B couldnt use his company car and HMRC didnt tax him for that 
benefit for three months so it would be fair for Unum to refund the three months 
premiums or extend the original policy for that time.
If Unman had extended the original policy they could have had a dental check-up and 
had any necessary dental work covered by the policy. They could have then chosen 
a cheaper policy with another insurer.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) statement on Coronavirus (covid-19) 
consumer contracts, cancellation and refunds said consumers could be offered 
credits, rebooking or rescheduling, which is what they were asking for, and that a 
consumer shouldnt be worse off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Bs contract 
with Unum as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance, 
including the CMA statement Mrs and Mr B referred to. Ive also taken into account all that 
Mrs and Mr B have said and only summarised their main points above.
I think Unum has treated Mrs and Mr B fairly and Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr Bs dental plan was an annual contract and premiums had to be paid for cover to 
be provided during each policy year. Insurance policies are designed to cover the risk of an 
unforeseen event happening over the duration of the contract. Even if no successful claim is 
made during the policy term, an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the 
risk during that time.
The policy gave them cover from 1 June 2019 to 31 May 2020, and the renewed policy from 
1 June 2020 to 31 October 2020, when Mr Bs employment ended. Dental practices were 
temporarily impacted by closures and restricted services between 23 March 2020 to June 
2020. This means Mrs and Mr B would have been able to have the full benefits provided by 
the policy for the majority of both policy years affected. So Im satisfied Unum is entitled to 
retain the premiums paid to cover the risk of a claim being made during that time.
The closure of private and NHS dental practices was a result of government restrictions to 
prevent the spread of covid-19. That was an unprecedented and unforeseen circumstance 
which was entirely outside of Unums control. But although dental services were restricted 
for a limited period of time, Unum was still offering its policyholders cover for any accident 
and emergency treatment. 
Mrs and Mr Bs point is that they couldnt have a dental check-up during the period for 
restricted services as generally non-urgent treatment was unavailable. But it would have still 
been possible to claim for that treatment at a later date when services resumed, subject to 
the policy terms. Ive seen no evidence why Mrs and Mr B couldnt have had their check-up 
at other times in the policy year. Unum also told them it would honour claims for any eligible 
treatment which had been scheduled but cancelled because of covid-19. Mrs and Mr B compare their dental policy situation with the tax situation with Mr Bs 
company car. But I dont think the two circumstances are the same. And for the above 
reasons I cant reasonably say the dental policy benefits were unusable. I cant fairly direct 
Unum to refund premiums just because Mrs and Mr B made no claim, thats not how the 
policy works. 
I cant tell Unum to provide a policy extension because the policy is an annual contract, 
which it can chose to offer each year on specific terms for Mrs and Mr B to accept. The 
renewed policy ended in October 2020. And even if I could tell Unman to extend that policy 
theres no basis for me to reasonably do so for the reasons Ive given above. 
I note Mrs and Mr Bs comments that theyve not been able to take alterative insurance as 
they were concerned about pre-existing conditions they might have. If, as they say, they 
dont know of any pre-existing condition then that may not be an issue but that will depend 
on the terms and conditions of the alternative policy they want to be insured by. Even if pre-
existing conditions were an issue, for the reasons Ive explained Unum acted fairly and 
I wont be requiring it to take any action.
In its final response letter to Mrs and Mr B Unum said it was making a promise to return 
exceptional profit to it members and at the time it was looking into that process. During our 
investigation Unum told us it had sent Mrs and Mr B a £80 voucher and from information on 
its website (through the link it provided to Mrs and Mr B) that voucher was the result of its 
promise, not a direct response to their complaint.
From Mrs and Mr Bs comments they think £80 is an unfair amount. But I dont think its 
appropriate for me to comment on that issue any further because Unum hadnt issued the 
voucher at the time of its final response letter so it hasnt had the opportunity to respond to 
any concerns Mrs and Mr B have about the amount. They would need to contact Unum with 
their concerns and if the parties cant ultimately agree they can make a separate complaint 
to us about that specific matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman