DRN-3593934
The complaint
Ms P complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined a claim 
under his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
When Ms P moved home, she had an issue with the removal company (Company A) 
that was moving her belongings. Ms P says Company A was due to pack her items, 
transport them, and unpack them at the new address. But instead, she says it didnt 
complete this last step. And due to a lack of storage, she was unable to receive all 
the items.
Ms P contacted Fairmead to make a claim on her LEI cover. It considered the claim 
and declined it. It said there was no insured event under the policy.
So, the complaint came to this Service. Our Investigator looked into what happened 
and didnt uphold it. As Company A had been hired by a housing trust and not her 
directly, he said there was no contract dispute between Ms P and Company A. He 
said there was no cover under the property protection section as the dispute didnt 
amount to physical damage, trespass or nuisance to her home as required. And the 
policy had a general exclusion that meant Ms P wouldnt be covered for any action 
taken against her landlord.
Ms P disagreed, saying the landlord had arranged the removal company as a 
reasonable adjustment and she shouldnt be disadvantaged as a result. The 
Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Fairmead has fairly declined Ms Ps claim.
So, Ive looked at the policy terms. It states the cover is in place to pursue legal 
action directly arising from:
You buying or hiring goods or services for your own private use.
An event which causes or could cause physical damage to your home or any 
nuisance or trespass which affects or will affect your owning or living in your 
home.
First, I have to consider is the dispute about Ms P buying or hiring goods or services 
for her own private use. And in the facts of this case, its not in dispute the contract 
for removal took place between a third party and Company A  not Ms P, even if this 
was for Ms Ps benefit. So, its clear to me the claim isnt covered in line with the 
contract dispute policy terms.
Second, I have to consider if the dispute about the removal company has caused 
physical damage to Ms Ps home, or if theres any nuisance or trespass which 
affected her owning or living in her home. And Im satisfied there isnt in this case. 
The alleged damage all relates to possessions, not the actual property.
Finally, Fairmead considered if there was any direct-action Ms P could take against 
the landlord/housing trust under the policy. And it highlighted an exclusion that says it 
will not cover Disputes between landlord and tenant or licensor and licensee. The 
terms are clear, so Im satisfied there is no cover for Ms P in this situation.
Ms P has argued that she shouldnt be disadvantaged because the contract was 
taken out on her behalf. I understand her frustration, but this simply doesnt change 
the terms of the LEI cover she has, nor does it persuade me to direct Fairmead to 
provide cover for an uninsured event.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman