DRN-1586154
The complaint
Mr C complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited hasn't been able to
locate documentation for an endowment policy he had with it. He thinks it mis-sold the policy 
as he wasn't aware he had been sold it.
What happened
Mr C was sold the endowment policy in 1989. It was set up to achieve £60,000 on maturity
and had a term of 25 years. The policy was invested into the with-profits fund and Mr C paid
£72.50 a month premium. In 1990, the policy was used as additional security for a mortgage
with Alliance & Leicester (now Santander).
Mr C wanted to complain about the sale of the policy in 2019 - he says he was taking out an
additional mortgage in his own name but wasn't aware he had been sold an endowment
policy. He complained to both Santander and L&G as he wasn't sure who was responsible
for the sale (his complaint against Santander is being dealt with separately).
L&G said it no longer held any policy information and it couldn't be sure it was responsible
for the sale of the policy, particularly as Mr C had said he arranged his mortgage with
Alliance & Leicester. It therefore didn't uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint either. She wasn't satisfied L&G was
responsible for the sale. Mr C asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. As the
investigator had found Santander wasn't responsible, he believes L&G must be.
The matter was referred to me for review and I noted that Mr C must have become aware of
the policy in 1990 - as he had provided a copy of a letter from a solicitor about the policy
being used as additional security for his mortgage. Because he became aware of the policy
in 1990, his complaint about not being aware of being sold it, is out of time and so wouldn't
be something we can look into. However, L&G has consented to us investigating the
complaint and so we can proceed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only uphold a complaint if I'm satisfied that a financial business had done something
wrong. And in order to make an award I must be satisfied, on balance, that a business is
responsible for what happened. It wouldn't be fair or reasonable of me to make an award
against a business that didn't sell the policy in question.
It isn't clear whether Mr C's policy continued to the end of the term or not. It was due to
mature in May 2014 but it might have been surrendered at any point before then. L&G has
searched it records and has been unable to find any trace of the policy. Given businesses
data retention obligations, and that they're not allowed to keep customer information for
longer than necessary, it isn't surprising information is no longer available.Mr C has said he was he came away from a meeting with Alliance & Leicester about his
mortgage with an endowment policy. And the very minimal information that is available does
show its involvement with the mortgage. Given his testimony, and the limited information
available, I'm not persuaded L&G is responsible for selling the policy.
That the investigator found Santander wasn't responsible for the sale of the policy either,
doesn't mean L&G is. Quite a lot of mortgages and associated policies were arranged
through independent financial advisers, in which case neither the lender, nor the policy
provider, would be responsible.
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I don't uphold this complaint as I'm not
persuaded I can fairly find L&G responsible for the sale of the policy. Invariably, when
complaints are made so long after the event, there is very little information to go on.
However, if Mr C does obtain further information in the future that sheds more light on that, I
would expect L&G to fairly consider it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman