DRN-4353331
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled the claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy. Mr K says he was denied a courtesy car and hasnt had his excess 
returned even though the claim wasnt his fault.
Aviva, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. He had a car accident on 23 June 2022 and 
reported this to his broker on 2 July. On 5 July, this incident was reported to Aviva. On the 
same date, Aviva declared Mr Ks car a total loss and paid him the value of the car less his 
excess.
Mr K was unhappy he wasnt given a courtesy car under his insurance policy. Nor was he 
given a hire car under a separate credit agreement when he was referred by the broker to a 
third party, E, as it wanted to investigate liability first. 
When Aviva responded to Mr Ks complaint, it explained Mr Ks car was a total loss and a 
courtesy car is only available under his policy whilst repairs to his car are being carried out. It 
confirmed the excess had been sent to Mr K. However, Aviva recognised it didnt clearly 
explain the process for Mr K to recover the excess as it incorrectly referred to using legal 
cover when this wasnt part of Mr Ks policy. It apologised and offered Mr K £50 
compensation. 
Having checked the policy terms, I can see Mr K was only entitled to a courtesy car under 
his policy whilst his car was being repaired. His car was written off within three days of him 
notifying his broker of the accident. I dont therefore consider Aviva was reasonably or fairly 
required to offer Mr K a courtesy car.
In relation to the recovery of Mr Ks excess, I find the offer Aviva made in addition to its 
apology to be a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
I take onboard what Mr K said in response to the Investigators view about wanting this 
service to consider the complaint against his broker rather than Aviva. However, Aviva  as 
the underwriter of his policy - is the party responsible for Mr Ks complaint about the courtesy 
car and excess. As the Investigator explained, a complaint about the broker - and any 
associated referral to E - would need to be set up as a separate complaint to this matter.
Mr K says he has been threatened, blackmailed and discriminated against. He also says 
hes been accused of money laundering and fraud. Mr K has been asked what made him 
feel this way and I cant see any further details about this have been provided. Even so, 
having looked at all the evidence I dont think Aviva has done so. Nor do I think Aviva has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr K to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint so Aviva Insurance Limited doesnt need to 
do anything more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman