DRN-4212606
The complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage to a roof.
What happened
Mr A contacted UKI to make a claim for storm damage to his roof, as well as internal 
damage. UKI declined the claim for the roof because it said it wasnt the result of a storm, 
but it dealt with the internal damage as accidental damage.
When Mr A complained, UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim for the roof. It said 
there wasnt evidence to show storm conditions and there was also evidence of gradual 
deterioration to the roof.
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for UKI to say there werent storm conditions around that time and for it to 
conclude that the roof was poorly maintained.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was found. Looking at the 
wind speed, I didnt see any windspeeds around the time of the incident significant enough 
to be considered storm strength. I also didnt see significant levels of rainfall. Mr A has said 
there was a snow storm. I have looked at the weather conditions and these showed the most 
significant snowfall, local to the property, was about forty miles away. More local weather 
stations showed lower amounts of snow. Ive also read the weather reports Mr A provided, 
but these also didnt show there were significant amounts of snow local to the property. So, 
thinking about this, I think the answer to the first question is no. 
Im aware Mr A said the policy didnt include a definition and UKI instead relied on the 
Beaufort scale. Not all policies include a storm definition and I think its reasonable to use the 
Beaufort scale to consider whether it was a storm. So, this doesnt change my view.
Although the damage could be consistent with storm strength winds, there wasnt evidence 
of storm strength winds around that time. Even if some of the damage was weather-related, 
the policy didnt provide cover for bad weather, it needed to be caused by storm conditions. 
UKI also considered the other evidence provided by Mr A, which included photos, and it 
checked online images. I consider this was a reasonable way to assess the roof. Based on 
the evidence it considered, I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim for the roof, 
as this showed a range of pre-existing issues with the roof that it considered were the main 
cause of the damage.
Mr A was also concerned that UKI had falsified information as part of making its decision. In 
particular, what UKI said Mr As contractor had said about the damage during a phone call. 
So, Ive considered this. I listened to the phone call. I dont think it was the most open 
conversation, in that the call handler explained her position and asked the contractor to 
confirm it. In my view, it was an unusual way to ask a contractor to provide information about 
their assessment of the damage. But, I dont think this showed the call handler falsified 
information.
I should note that I havent relied on the information in the phone call to make my decision. 
This is because, regardless of that phone call, I didnt see evidence of storm conditions local 
to the property. UKI also considered the other evidence provided by Mr A and checked 
online images. So, from what Ive seen it considered a range of information to form its view 
on the roof. Having assessed these, UKI didnt think the main cause of the damage was a 
storm, as it found other issues with the roof. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman