DRN-1716354
 
The complaint
Ms W says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says this affected her financially as she needed to borrow again to make the 
repayments. She says this caused her stress and anxiety. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account and five instalment loans Sunny provided 
to Ms W between October 2014 and May 2015. Some of the information Sunny has provided 
about this lending is in the table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months) date ended
1 03/10/2014Running credit with a £500 
credit limit.30/01/2015
2 06/01/2015 £200 6 30/04/2015
3 16/01/2015 £100 6 02/03/2015
4 05/03/2015 £300 6 28/08/2015
5 20/04/2015 £100 6 04/06/2015
6 07/05/2015 £150 6 04/06/2015
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Sunny was wrong to have 
approved loan 6. Sunny agreed with the adjudicator and made an offer of compensation.
Ms W didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint. Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws 
complaint in part and have explained why below.
Sunny has accepted our adjudicators opinion about loan 6. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. I have included the compensation offered in my putting things right section 
below. 
Ive seen a record of the information Ms W provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Ms W said she had a monthly income of £1,800 and she had regular monthly 
credit expenses of between around £100 and £400. This wouldve likely left her with a 
reasonable disposable income. So the loan amounts wouldve seemed affordable to Sunny. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Sunny was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further.  
Ms W has indicated that she had some financial problems. But she hasnt provided any 
further detail about what these were, and how they wouldve impacted on her ability to repay 
the loans. So I think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information it obtained
And whilst its now been agreed that Sunny shouldnt have approved loan 6 I think the 
lending pattern itself before this didnt indicate that Ms W was likely to be having financial 
problems. Ms W used the running credit account for a fairly short time and the amounts she 
borrowed werent high. Ms W borrowed for around eight months in total over all of the loans 
and again the amounts werent high. She didnt have any repayment problems.  
So, overall in these circumstances, I think the assessments Sunny did for loans 1 to 5 were 
likely to be proportionate. I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 5 was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Ms Ws complaint about loans 1 to 5. Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms W paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman