DRN-3457134
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as F complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to
terminate their business account and withhold the money held in it.
Mr Z, director of F, complains on its behalf.
What happened
In July 2020, F applied for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme. The loan was
approved and a few days later, F received the loan funds into its account.
In January 2021, HSBC contacted Mr Z, on Fs behalf, and asked for information about F.
HSBC initially tried to contact Mr Z by telephone but wasnt successful. HSBC reverted to
email contact. At the time, Mr Z was abroad and didnt respond to the email initially as he
had concerns about the legitimacy of it. When he did reply  he didnt give in-depth detail but
intended to investigate the email and its content when he returned to the UK. Mr Z didnt
return home for a while due to him contracting the Covid-19 virus while abroad. In the
meantime, and in July 2021, HSBC made the decision to immediately end the banking
relationship with F. HSBC also recorded a fraud marker against Mr Z personally.
Mr Z says he was informed that HSBC would send a cheque with the remaining money
which was left in Fs account  but he didnt receive anything.
Our investigator who reviewed things upheld Fs complaint overall. In summary, he thought
HSBC were fair to close Fs account  but didnt think it was fair they were holding on to Fs
funds. So, our investigator asked HSBC to return the balance of the account to F, add 8%
simple interest to the amount and pay F £500 compensation for the distress caused. Our
investigator explained to Mr Z that he couldnt comment on the fraud marker which had been
applied because Mr F wasnt an eligible complainant because the marker had been applied
due to Mr Zs link to F.
Mr Z, on behalf of F, didnt agree. In summary, he thought we could look at the merits of why
the fraud marker had been applied as it was recorded against him individually and not F.
And he didnt think £500 compensation was enough to reflect the reputational damage
caused to F, the late payment fines it occurred and the declined application for a refinance
on a commercial property. Mr Z said he would like at least £7,500 compensation.
HSBC responded to our investigators view and said they were unable to return the full
balance at this time due to the outstanding BBL loan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
Since our investigators view, HSBC has provided an update to our service. They have
explained that they used money from Fs account to offset against the outstanding balance
of the loan. This was communicated to F in February 2022.
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive noted that Mr Z, on behalf of F, has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Like
the investigator, Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address
each and every point that Mr Z has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his
complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I
consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that
Mr Z and HSBC have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information. Some of the information HSBC has provided is information that we considered
should be kept confidential.
The fraud marker
Our service isnt able to consider every complaint referred to us. Sometimes a complaint
may fall outside our jurisdiction, which means we dont have the legal power to consider it.
Our jurisdiction is explained in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These form part of the
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs), handbook.
Although Mr Z is complaining on behalf of F, the negative marker Mr Z wishes to complain
about isnt loaded against F. This means F isnt entitled to make a complaint about the
marker.
Ive moved on to consider whether Mr Z is an eligible complainant. There are a number of
different rules which apply here, one of which is:
A consumer is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or
mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession.
Ive considered whether Mr Z meets this criteria as a consumer, and I understand this will
disappoint him however Im afraid he doesnt. The negative marker loaded against Mr Z was 
applied because of activity which took place on Fs business account  this means that Mr Z
isnt acting outside of his business when complaining about the marker.
Mr Zs complaint must also arise from one or more of the relationships with HSBC set out in
DISP 2.7.6. Most of the time this will be a direct relationship between the person bringing the
complaint and the financial business. And most complaints about banks are brought by their
customers as a result of something the bank did or didnt do to them as customers.
However, Mr Zs complaint doesnt arise from a direct relationship between him and HSBC;
he wasnt the banks customer; his company F was.
In summary, Ive concluded that Mr Zs complaint doesnt arise from one of the necessary
relationships between him and HSBC set out in our rules. It follows that he isnt an eligible
complainant.
Id like to make it clear to Mr Z that I havent considered whether or not HSBC are justified in
loading the marker against Mr Zs name. And Im afraid I wont be commenting on this. For
the reasons Ive explained above I dont have the power to consider the fairness of HSBCs
actions relating to the application of the fraud marker against Mr Z.
Account block and closure
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with
these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing Fs account.Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same
as if Mr Z, on behalf of F, decided to end the agreement with HSBC and use another bank 
he wouldnt have to explain why.
Im aware Mr Z believes HSBC took the action they did because of an email which was
interpretated incorrectly. When HSBC asked for further information relating to F, and Mr Z
responded, he referred to the date F was formed, and HSBC referred to the date F started
trading. Im aware of how strongly Mr Z feels about this, and he has made it very clear that
the words trading and formed have two different meanings. I can appreciate why Mr Z
feels this way, and I can understand his frustrations and concern around this potential
misunderstanding. However, having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I
cant fairly agree that HSBC have acted unfairly when closing Fs account. I understand
HSBC hasnt shared the full reasons for their decision to close the account with F. And Im
sorry I cant share more specific details, but Ive reviewed HSBCs reasons and Id like to
reassure Mr Z that Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC have acted unreasonably. It therefore
follows that I wont be asking them to do anything differently in relation to the account
closure.
Withholding the funds and offsetting the debt
I can appreciate why it would have been inconvenient for Mr Z not to have access to Fs
money for a prolonged period of time. And I recognise this would have put F in a financially
challenging position because it didnt have access to its funds  which in turn would have
likely made it difficult to continue trading. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an
account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations which they have
to comply.
Having said that, I do think HSBC could have dealt with things more efficiently  and Ive
seen nothing to satisfy me that F being without its funds for the amount of time it was, is 
reasonable. Again, HSBC has shared information with our service which Im unable to share
with F. However, despite this evidence, I do consider HSBC caused unnecessary delays  I
think the action they took could have been pursued sooner, and no later than August 2021. It
therefore follows that I think HSBC should pay 8% simple interest on the funds they withheld
and the funds which rightfully belonged to F only.
This brings me on to the developments of the complaint since our investigator issued his
opinion. Im aware HSBC has used money from Fs account to repay the BBL loan. Im
aware Mr Z has already explained to our service that F utilised all of the loan funds shortly
after they were paid into its account and he continued to make the repayments towards the
loan to avoid defaulting. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider whether I think HSBC were
entitled to use money from Fs account, which likely didnt form part of the original loan
funds, to repay the loan.
Ive reviewed the loan terms. Clause 12 states;
12. Set-off
If you have money in one of your accounts (except for trust, client or joint accounts),
we may set it off against any amount you owe us which is due for payment on other
accounts (including money you owe on a joint account) so it reduces or repays the
amount you owe us. We'll only do this with accounts in your name and after we have
checked that you have enough left in your accounts to cover essential living costs.
Im satisfied, based on these terms, that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in using the funds F
held in its current account to settle the debt owed on its BBL account.Therefore, the amount I think F was entitled to receive back from HSBC, was the total
amount left in their account (£150,092.59), less the amount owed to the BBL (£46,173.99). I
havent seen any evidence to show why F isnt entitled to the remaining £103,918.60 and
therefore am likely to ask HSBC to return this amount to F and include 8% simple interest on
it from 5 August 2021 (when they could have likely released the money), up to the date they
do return it.
Compensation
I appreciate Mr Z, on Fs behalf, would like at least £7,500 compensation to recognise the
distress, reputational damage and loss of funds to F. Ive carefully considered the full
circumstances of this complaint, and I agree with our investigator £500 compensation is fair.
I say that because, Mr Z has commented that the declined application of the re-mortgage
and the higher monthly repayments, were a result of the fraud marker being registered. Ive
explained above why I cant consider whether the fraud marker was recorded fairly or not 
and therefore it wouldnt be reasonable for me to make a finding on whether compensation
should be paid because of the result of it.
I find the 8% simple interest added to the funds which should be returned to F covers the
loss of use of the money, and the £500 fairly reflects the inconvenience this overall situation
has caused F.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they issued a cheque with the 
remaining balance to F in February 2022. HSBC didnt add any further comments to the 
provisional decision.
Mr Z, on behalf of F, responded to confirm he did receive the outstanding balance. Mr F also 
explained that he wasnt happy HSBC took the remaining balance outstanding from the 
original BBL loan as he says F was legally entitled to the BBL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has presented new arguments or evidence, I see no reason 
to depart from my original findings which are explained above.
I recognise Mr Z, on behalf of F, remains unhappy that HSBC used the balance to repay the 
loan, but I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point. Im satisfied, based on the terms of 
the loan agreement, HSBC were entitled to do what they did. I appreciate this may have put 
F in a difficult position  as it hasnt got access to the loan funds like it would have had this 
situation not occurred. But that doesnt mean HSBC have acted unfairly  and based on the 
evidence Ive received; Im satisfied HSBCs actions were reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
Putting things right
Im pleased to hear Mr Z, on behalf of F, has received the money which is owed to it. 
However, I still consider HSBC should pay 8% simple interest on the amount withheld from Z 
from 5 August 2021, up to the date they did refund it  21 February 2022.
And I consider HSBC should pay £500 to recognise the inconvenience caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, HSBC should:
Pay 8% simple interest on the £103,918.60 withheld from F from 5 August 2021 to 21 
February 2022.
Pay £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman