DRN-1460612
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the service received from Assurant General Insurance Limited when 
she made a claim on her mobile phone insurance. My references to Assurant include its 
agents.
What happened
Mrs S has mobile phone insurance, insured by Assurant and its agent administers the policy 
on its behalf.
Mrs S mobile phone stopped working. Her son took the phone to the manufacturers shop 
who said it couldnt repair the phone. She called Assurant who explained the claims process. 
Mrs S said she would call again once shed spoken to her son.
Mrs S complains about the service received from Assurants representative in the second 
call. She asked the representative to call her son who she authorised to speak on her behalf. 
Mrs S says Assurants representative refused to do so without her being present. She says 
the representative was quite aggressive and gave different information from Assurants 
representative in the first call. She asked her son to return home to help as shes reliant on 
her phone and wanted to get a replacement quickly.
Mrs S made a third call to Assurant. Her son spoke to another representative on her behalf 
and Assurant detailed the claim process. Mrs S says Assurant told her son; it would take no 
action until she paid the £100 excess, she would need to return her phone to Assurant as it 
may be able to repair, it didnt need to see the report from the phone manufacturer. Mrs S 
son complained that Mrs S could be deemed vulnerable due to her age and he thought 
Assurants process oppressive. Mrs S says she and her son had lost confidence in 
Assurant so he bought her a new phone that day.
A manager at Assurant called Mrs S son about the complaint. The manager said the calls 
werent handled to an appropriate standard and offered £25 compensation for Mrs S 
distress and inconvenience. Its customer relations representative made the same offer which 
Mr S son rejected on her behalf.
Mrs S complained to us, represented by her son. She wants Assurant to pay at least £100 
for the costs and inconvenience she and her son had.
Assurant re-reviewed the calls as a result of the complaint to us. Recordings of the relevant 
first two calls were available and Assurant now said there were no service issues in the calls. 
It had the notes of the third call and thought there were no concerns with its service in that 
call. But it couldnt listen to the call and was still offering £25 compensation.
Our investigator said Assurant had given reasonable service and its offer was fair.
Mrs S son disagreed on her behalf and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said Assurant 
had already agreed it had given poor service in the first two calls and Mrs S complaint was 
about the amount Assurant offered, not whether it had given poor service. He said hed in 
part rejected the offer as its customer relations representative admitted she hadnt listened to 
the calls so she couldnt have investigated thoroughly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant no longer accepts it gave poor service and its not unfair for Assurant to change its 
view. So I need to decide whether Assurant gave reasonable service, and I think it did. 
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the two calls with available recordings. Those are the calls relevant to Mrs S 
complaint and the content of the other calls arent disputed. 
In the first call Assurants representative correctly explained the claim process and excess 
under the policy terms. The representative told Mrs S the claim was accepted and the next 
step was for her to pay the excess fee. Mrs S said she wanted to speak to her son first to tell 
him it wasnt as simple as her getting a replacement from the phone manufacturers shop. 
Mrs S hasnt complained about the service she received in the call and I dont think there 
were service issues in that call.
In the second call Mrs S sounded frustrated that the first representative shed spoken to 
wasnt available and she had to repeat some information shed given before. Assurants 
representative was polite and professional and was able to pick up the call quickly from 
where the first call finished. The representative answered Mrs S queries thoroughly in line 
with the policy terms. When Mrs S asked the representative to call her son he explained he 
was in an inbound call centre and could only speak to the policyholder. Theres no evidence 
that the representative was quite aggressive, as Mrs S suggests. He didnt give information 
that was substantively different to the information given in the first call.
Ive read Assurants notes of the third call as no recording is available. Theres nothing in the 
notes to show any service issues. The notes say Assurants representative told Mrs S son 
the phone had to be returned to see if it was repairable. Thats in line with the policy terms 
and a reasonable request by Assurant. The policy is clear the excess must be paid before 
the claim is settled.  
I understand Mrs S was anxious to have her phone replaced and she wanted to be able to 
buy a replacement from the manufacturers shop. But the policy is clear about the claim 
process and Assurants representative gave Mrs S and her son correct information about the 
process. I dont think Assurants claim process is oppressive as her son suggests. Most, if 
not all, general mobile phone insurers have the same/very similar process and timescales for 
claims.
I dont think Assurants customer relations representative was unreasonable not to listen to 
the calls. One of its managers had already accepted the calls werent of its usual standard, 
so the decision not to re-listen to the calls was reasonable at that point. 
Another Assurant representative did re-listen to the calls once Mrs S complained to us and it 
re-reviewed the matter. I think that was reasonable action to take at that stage.
Im satisfied Assurant gave reasonable service so Im not going to award any compensation 
to Mrs S. But Assurants already offered £25 compensation and its confirmed to us the offer 
remains open. Mrs S should contact Assurant direct if she now wishes to accept the offer.Mrs S refers to the costs she and her son had. She had the cost of the replacement phone 
which she and her son chose to buy from the manufacturer. But she could have continued 
the claim, upon paying the excess, so she didnt need to incur the cost of buying a 
replacement. As Ive said the process and timescales Assurant gave for the claim were 
reasonable. Theres no basis for me to say Assurant should pay any cost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman