DRN-1575068
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold his life insurance policy by wrongly 
declaring he wasnt a smoker in the application form.
What happened
In 2013 Mr H visited a Barclays branch and took out about £38,000 worth of life cover with a 
third-party insurance provider.  The cover was set up on a non-smoker basis for a monthly 
premium of £8 per month.
Mr H complained to Barclays in 2019 about the sale of the policy. He said, after an insurance 
broker had offered to review his existing cover, hed found his smoking status wasnt 
declared on the policy when it was set up even though he told Barclays he was using 
nicotine replacements at the time. He wanted the policy corrected to reflect his smoking 
status and thereby pay out in the event of a claim.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. They said due to the sale of policy dating back to 2013 
they were unable to investigate what was discussed with their member of staff. But theyd 
liaised with the insurance provider who confirmed the policy documents were sent to Mr Hs 
address. And that the application form, under section 4, showed Mr H confirmed hed never 
smoked or used tobacco products  with nicotine replacements used as an example of a 
tobacco product. Barclays explained they advise all their customers to go through their 
documents to check the policy is suitable for them and that this was also highlighted in the 
policy documents. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but she didnt think 
the policy was mis-sold. She said without being present at the time of the meeting she 
couldnt be certain what was discussed. But the cover letter from the insurance provider 
enclosing the policy documentation sent to Mr H asked him to check the documents and to 
let them know if anything was wrong. She thought the documents clearly showed
Mr H was recorded as a non-smoker but couldnt see hed questioned this at the time. And 
so, without knowing for certain how the recording of Mr Hs smoking status came about, she 
didnt think she could reasonably say Barclays were to blame for it.
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr H is unhappy with whats happened as, in the event of a claim being 
made, the cover he set up may not have been paid out (or in full). But while Ive taken what 
Mr H has said in to account, I dont think I can fairly conclude the policy was mis-sold. Ill 
explain why.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute whether the application process required Mr H to declare his 
smoking status and that he was using nicotine replacements. Instead, Mr H alleges he told the Barclays staff member about this but they didnt include it in the application to keep the 
cost of cover down and so increase their chance of obtaining a sale. As I wasnt present 
when the application was made, I cant be sure what was discussed and whether Mr H did 
(or didnt) inform the Barclays staff member that he was using nicotine replacements. Ive 
therefore considered the documentary evidence available.
The insurance provider sent policy documents to Mr H confirming the cover hed set up. The 
cover letter asked Mr H to check the documents theyd enclosed and, if anything was wrong, 
to call them. Having looked at the policy schedule and the your illustration document, I think 
they clearly show Mr H being recorded as having never smoked or used tobacco products. 
And I think its reasonable to have expected Mr H to have read and checked the information 
as advised by the insurance provider. Had he done so he ought to have realised it was 
incorrect and informed them of this. I havent however seen anything to show this happened.
To reflect Mr Hs actual smoking status the insurance provider offered him the option of 
increasing his premium to retain £38,000 worth of cover or accept a lower level of cover.
Mr H has however since told us the policy is no longer active due to the direct debit being 
cancelled. If Mr H wants cover to remain in place with the insurance provider he will have to 
contact them directly to see if this is possible. Otherwise, he will have to apply for a new 
policy.
I know how strongly Mr H feels about this matter but I dont think I can fairly conclude 
Barclays is responsible for his smoking status being recorded incorrectly. So while I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman