DRN-2778075
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) offer to settle her buildings 
insurance claim. She wants Aviva to pay for all the repair work she feels is necessary to 
return her home to the condition it was in before the incident.   
What happened
Mrs G says she found water running down the walls in her kitchen and utility room. She says 
she rang her insurer and was told she didnt have emergency cover so they couldnt send 
someone. Mrs G then arranged for someone to have a look at the issue and they identified 
the source of the leak to be a mechanical failure from the toilet in her upstairs bathroom. Mrs 
G made a claim against her buildings insurance and Aviva made an offer to settle the 
repairs. Mrs G wasnt happy with the offer, so she complained. Aviva responded and said 
the settlement figure of £7,115.50 is reasonable and takes into account all damage covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs G. She thought Avivas offer to settle the claim 
was reasonable. Mrs G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Avivas offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs 
G will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I can see Mrs G 
has raised further complaints with Aviva so I think its important for me to clarify my decision 
only relates to the complaint regarding the cash settlement. 
My starting point is Mrs Gs buildings insurance policy. Theres no dispute here that Mrs Gs 
claim falls within the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy says Aviva can choose to 
settle a claim by carrying out repairs or by making a cash settlement. I can see Aviva have 
offered to carry out repairs which Mrs G has declined. And, she feels their offer for the cash 
settlement is around £2,600 short of the figure which her own contractor has estimated to 
carry out the works. So, Ive looked at whether the cash settlement amount offered by Aviva 
is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs G has supplied Aviva with quotes for the works, new tiles and new appliances. Aviva 
have accepted the quote for the tiles but not the works and new appliances. Aviva say the 
difference in the price between her contractors quote and their own quote is down to Mrs 
Gs contractors labour charges being higher. Mrs Gs policy says If we can repair or replace 
property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement we will only pay you what it could 
cost us to repair or replace it. So, taking this into account, Aviva are acting in line with the 
terms and conditions by using the rates they have with their network contactors. 
Ive compared the schedule of works prepared by Aviva with the one prepared by Mrs Gs 
contractor and its largely similar. Avivas schedule of works doesnt take into account 
replacement of the towel radiator as they say Mrs Gs contractor is of the view it will most 
likely have significant corrosion to the inside. Aviva have taken the view this is down to 
general wear and tear and not as a result of the escape of water which gave rise to the 
claim. The policy says Aviva wont cover loss or damage resulting from wear and tear. Mrs G 
accepts the radiator is 23 years old and, given the area where the corrosion has occurred, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to take the view this is down to wear and tear. This 
falls outside the scope of the policy so I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to decline a 
replacement towel radiator. 
In relation to the cupboard unit, theres no evidence this was damaged by the escape of 
water, but Aviva have agreed to replace this. I can understand why Mrs G might feel Aviva 
have taken an inconsistent approach here given their position with the towel radiator. I dont 
think thats the case here though as Aviva say Mrs Gs contractor has identified this will be 
damaged beyond repair upon removal. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
replace this. 
Looking at the remaining items on Mrs Gs contractors schedule of works, I think its all 
covered in Avivas schedule of works. So, Im persuaded Avivas schedule of works provides 
a reasonable and accurate account of the work needed to repair Mrs Gs bathroom to bring it 
back to the position it was in before the escape of water incident. I acknowledge Mrs Gs 
concern that her own contractor wont do the work for the cash settlement amount being 
offered by Aviva, but I cant hold Aviva responsible for any difference Mrs G might have to 
pay. Aviva have put forward a solution to this issue by offering to carry out the repairs, which 
Mrs G has declined. I understand Mrs Gs reasons for doing this and agree a business 
should take any health concerns into account when considering how to deal with a claim. 
And, I think Aviva have done that here by offering a cash settlement which then allows Mrs 
G to use her own contractor. I accept this has led to a shortfall in what Mrs G says she 
needs to carry out the repairs, but I dont think its unreasonable for Avivas cash settlement 
to be calculated on the basis of the rates it would cost them. 
I note Mrs Gs concern that, once the works start, this might well reveal further problems. I 
understand there could well be situations where ongoing works identify further issues which 
were unidentified during the claim process and therefore wont have been factored into the 
original schedule of works. If that is the case, then Mrs G can return to Aviva for them to 
consider this. Mrs G also says the quote she received for the tiles may no longer be valid 
and the price could be higher. If that is the case, Mrs G will need to submit a new quote to 
Aviva for them to consider this further.       
Mrs G says the unresolved claim has had a significant impact on her and her elderly mother. 
Theyve been unable to use the upstairs bathroom which has led to Mrs G putting additional 
pressure on an already injured knee by having to walk up and down the stairs to access a 
bathroom. Mrs G does have my sympathy as I can see why this will be frustrating and 
inconvenient. I cant however say Aviva are responsible for the claim being unresolved. They 
have made an offer to settle the claim in order to resolve this issue. And, given that I dont 
think that offer is unreasonable, I cant attribute the issues Mrs G has mentioned as being 
down to any error by Aviva.  
In summary, I dont think Aviva have acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering Mrs G a cash 
settlement. And, I dont think its unfair for them to base that cash settlement on rates it 
would cost them to repair or replace items. 
My final decisionAviva Insurance Limited have already made an offer of a cash settlement to settle Mrs Gs 
claim and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay the cash settlement to Mrs G, if 
they havent done so already. This should take into account any changes to new quotes 
provided by Mrs G for the tiles. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman