DRN-4256613
The complaint
Mr S complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap wont refund 
payments he says he didnt authorise from his account.
What happened
Mr S explains that he was looking to book three air tickets online on 11 November 2022. He 
got to the point of booking with one merchant. But says he didnt complete this as he didnt 
enter a one-time passcode sent to him by text. He says he still booked the same trip but with 
better terms through a different merchant. He found that the first merchant had still charged 
him a total of £2,864.58 and he asked for a refund. He is unhappy that this refund was only 
partial and that he has lost money and spent time pursuing this.
Capital on Tap said that it had raised a chargeback with the merchant. A partial refund had 
been provided but Mr S wasnt eligible for anything further. It said that the payments were 
authorised when Mr S selected the product and provided his card details online. The use of 
the one-time passcode was at the discretion of the merchant. It wouldnt be refunding the 
rest of the payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the issue was 
whether Mr S consented to the payments. He had done so and authorised the payments 
before any secondary authentication check. Mr S wouldnt have known that this was going to 
be made. Capital on Tap had fairly attempted a chargeback. There was now a contractual 
dispute between Mr S and the merchant. Whether Capital on Tap ought to have declined the 
payments was a risk-based decision and not about authorisation.
Mr S didnt agree and provided a detailed statement. He said that we hadnt considered the 
possibility that once the code had been issued it isnt optional as otherwise what is the use of 
it. And not using it as part of the process would be misleading. He wasnt sure how wed 
concluded that hed decided to go ahead and completed the payment process. He said that 
he didnt do so. He said that Capital on Tap failed to apply a secondary security measure 
and that it must refund the unauthorised transactions and the interest charged. The outcome 
here was biased, not factual and not fair at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if they werent authorised Mr S wouldnt generally 
be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr S authorise the payments on the account?
Mr S says he had an account with the merchant and his details were already stored on its 
website. He was looking to buy tickets. And he accepts he entered his card details for 
payment. As part of the chargeback process the merchant has sent sample screen shots of 
its booking process. And Im satisfied that Mr S would have needed to have agreed to its 
terms and conditions before a payment could have been processed. A purpose of asking for 
stronger customer authentication is to help prevent fraud. By it seems to be accepted here 
that the merchant didnt require the one-time passcode issued to be entered to proceed. 
That meant it adopted the higher risk of this transaction having not been by Mr S using 
these card details. But here there was no other party than Mr S involved and one of the 
tickets was issued in his name. And there was no claim of fraud.
The issue is whether he consented to the payments. I appreciate he says that he didnt do 
so because he didnt enter the one-time passcode. Im afraid I dont agree that this was a 
pre-requisite to him consenting to the payments whether or not he expected such a code to 
be issued or required. I accept the possibility of confusion about whether the booking had 
gone ahead. But I can also see that he was sent an email at that time by the merchant 
confirming the booking and providing ticket numbers. And that if there was a mistake there 
was it seems a 24-hour period for him to contact the merchant. Otherwise, his booking 
terms said the payments were non-refundable save for some taxes and fees on 
cancellation. 
Based on Mr S statement he then went on to make a similar booking with a different 
merchant and then did enter a one-time code. I can see the related amount that debited his 
account. 
He raised this dispute with Capital on Tap on 7 December 2022. And it followed its 
chargeback process. It received a response from the merchant defending the chargeback 
and later refunding only part of the fare related it seems to certain taxes and fees. That was 
in line with the cancellation terms of the tickets and not due to any error with the payments.  
And so, Mr S remained liable for a net amount of over £2,300 and has been charged 
interest on the payments. 
I understand what is at stake for him and why he is dissatisfied with the outcome from 
Capital on Tap. But having considered his testimony and all the other evidence provided Im 
satisfied that he consented to and so authorised these payments. Its also clear that he 
changed his mind and believed that the initial payments wouldnt go through. Unfortunately, 
he couldnt withdraw his consent to the payments including by not inputting a one-time 
code. It is possible that not inputting the one-time code could have resulted in the 
transactions being declined but that didnt happen here. 
For these reasons I dont find Capital on Tap has made a mistake or acted unreasonably. 
And so, Im afraid, Mr S remains liable for the remaining balance of these payments after 
the refund and for the related interest and charges applied. If he doesnt accept my decision 
he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman