DRN-4151800
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc entered a default on his credit file in error.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties so it serves no purpose to repeat them in detail here. 
In summary Santander incorrectly applied a default to Mr Hs credit file in 2018. This led to 
him being declined for credit on several occasions and caused him much stress and 
hardship. Santander admitted its mistake and advised Mr H that it would correct the record. 
It offered Mr H compensation. However, Santander didnt amend the incorrect entry for some 
time.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Mr H given greater 
compensation. Firstly they recommended £600, with which Santander agreed. But when 
Santander failed to update the record and the situation remained ongoing she recommended 
compensation in the sum of £1500 in total.
Mr H didnt feel this compensated him for the hardship he had endured but provided no 
further evidence. As no agreement has been reached the matter was passed to me to 
determine. I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2023 and said as follows:
Santanders error caused enormous hardship to Mr H, which it has acknowledged. 
Unfortunately the matter took some years to resolve  the incorrect entry was first made in 
2018. But Mr H didnt find out about the entry until 2021. Im satisfied that Mr H was declined 
for credit on at least three occasions. It may be there were other reasons for this, but I find it 
fair to conclude that the incorrect entry was likely to be at least part of the reason for the 
repeated failure to obtain credit.
Although Santander told Mr H his credit file was updated in October 2021, it wasnt until the 
summer of 2022 that that the required updates were sent to the credit reporting agencies.
This ongoing period impacted Mr H  he was advised things were being sorted and they 
werent. He was not able to rectify the matter himself and I accept this caused great 
inconvenience, distress and upset.
Im pleased to note that the situation is now as it should be. But having regard to the fact that 
the error caused Mr H sustained distress over a lengthy period of time, impacting his mental 
health and ability to move on with his life Im satisfied compensation is merited. I find that a 
total payment of £2250 is fair in all the circumstances.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional findings. Santander agreed to make the 
payment to Mr H.
In summary Mr H responded that Santanders mistake had caused, and continued to cause 
himself and his family distress, loss and damage as it said if affects and hampers many of 
his plans to invest in their futures. He felt it also presented an unfair picture of his financial 
probity and of his reputation.
He felt that his health issues were caused by long term stress.
Mr H explained that had he been able to take a car on finance, he would have saved a 
considerable sum of money compared to what he was presently paying to rent a car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr H for the evidence he has submitted. I have acknowledged the enormous 
hardship that this matter has caused him. It is for that reason I felt that the initial sum 
recommended was insufficient. I have carefully reviewed all the representations that Mr H 
has made. 
The medical evidence he has submitted doesnt lead me to conclude that his current 
problem is caused by stress. The GPs clinical notes dont say that. However I do accept that 
Mr H has been stressed and that can impact his overall health and wellbeing.
I have considered the car rental agreement Mr H sent in. I acknowledge that there may have 
been a more cost-effective way for him to work as a taxi driver. But Im not able to definitively 
conclude that the reason he went with the arrangement he did was because of Santanders 
error. 
Likewise I am not able to conclude that the reason Mr H was declined for credit on several 
occasions was only because of Santanders error. There may have been other factors which 
influenced these decisions. But I acknowledge that there is likely to have been some impact, 
and for that I remain satisfied that compensation is due.
I recognise that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not persuaded by the 
representations he now makes that the compensation amount I felt was merited in my 
provisional findings should be greater. For the reasons given in my provisional decision, and 
adopted here, and my findings above, Im satisfied that compensation of £2250 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr H should be aware that if he accepts my decision, its unlikely he would be able to go to 
court to ask for further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr H £2250 in compensation. It 
may deduct from this sum the £250 already paid to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman