DRN-4010438
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way her account switch was completed by TSB Bank plc. 
Miss H has told us she was given misleading information about the account switching 
process and time it would take to complete. Miss H also complains about the way TSB 
handled her complaint.
What happened
On 24 November 2021 TSB received an account switch request from a business Ill call N. 
Miss H was advised the switch would complete on 2 December 2021. NatWest has sent in 
statement information that shows Miss Hs account had no automated payments, like 
standing orders or direct debits, in place and that the account hadnt been used between 12 
December 2020 and 17 November 2021 with a £0 balance. On 17 November 2021 a 
payment of £5 was deposited into the account. 
NatWest says it transferred the £5 balance to N as part of the account switch process on 2 
December 2021 and made plans to close the account at the end of the business day  in line 
with its normal approach. That left a balance of £0. 
Miss H has told us she checked her account on 2 December 2021 and found the balance 
was £0 but that the account was still open. Miss H went on to transfer £5 to the TSB account 
and says it was accepted but not transferred on to N as expected. Miss H contacted N and 
was told the switch had already been completed and transfer received from her old account 
with TSB. Miss H has explained N was unaware of the £5 payment shed made to her old 
account with TSB that morning. 
Miss H contacted TSB and was told the switching team didnt open until 9am. An agent 
advised the account would remain open until the close of business. Miss H says she queried 
why the account allowed her to deposit £5 but wouldnt allow her to withdraw it again. Miss H 
raised a complaint. 
TSB sent a final response on 17 December 2021 but didnt agree it had made any mistakes 
when completing the account switch. TSB said the redirection of new payments only takes 
place once the account is closed. And when Miss H transferred £5 on 2 December 2021 the 
account remained open. TSB didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Miss H has told us in the months that followed she tried to raise her concerns about the way 
her complaint had been handled without success. Miss H went on to refer her complaint to 
our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought TSB had dealt with Miss Hs 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss H asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ive looked at whether TSB followed the normal process when completing Miss Hs account 
switch. The account had no active direct debits or standing orders. And there was a balance 
of £5 held at the point the account switch was instructed. That meant the process was 
reasonably straight forward for TSB. The switch date of 2 December 2021 came about and 
TSB made arrangements for the £5 balance to be transferred to N. That led to the account 
balance showing as £0 in preparation for it being closed at the end of the business day. I 
havent seen anything that shows TSB made any mistakes. 
I understand Miss H was unclear about whether the switch had completed on 2 December 
2021 and sent a payment to the account. But I think its fair to say Miss H couldve contacted 
TSB to ask about the process. I understand the switching teams open from 9am. But Im 
satisfied Miss H couldve contacted TSB and asked about the process of closing her account 
as part of an account switch. 
When Miss H transferred £5 into her TSB account it was still open but withdrawals appear to 
have been restricted in anticipation of the account being closed. TSB went on to transfer the 
funds to N. In my view, the account switch process worked as it should have. I havent seen 
evidence that supports TSB made any mistakes or treated Miss H unfairly. 
I understand Miss H tried to speak with TSB on 2 December 2021 and that the switching 
teams telephone number wasnt easily accessible. But TSB has explained it provides the 
customer services number and that the team can transfer customers to the relevant 
department as required. Miss H has told us the account switching team werent open when 
she first called. But I havent seen anything that shows Miss H was treated unfairly by the 
way TSB handled her calls. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I havent been seen evidence that shows TSB made 
mistakes or treated her unfairly when completing the account switch. 
Miss H has told us that after TSB issued its final response she wanted to discuss the issues 
surrounding her complaint further. As a result, Miss H made several calls to TSB in the 
months that followed but didnt receive call backs or further responses as requested. I 
understand Miss H remained unhappy with the response she received. But once a business 
issues a final response and provides referral rights for this service, it isnt required to 
continue to comment or respond further. Ive looked at the final response TSB issued. I can 
see it set out the reasons why Miss Hs complaint wasnt upheld and provided referral rights 
to this service. Thats in line with the rules TSB operates under. I havent been persuaded 
that TSB acted unfairly by not responding further.  
As Im satisfied TSB dealt with Miss Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman