DRN-2956348
The complaint
Ms N has complained that Revolut Ltd did little to solve her complaint after she was a victim 
of fraud.
What happened
In May 2020 Ms N received a couple of emails from Revolut asking her to authenticate 
herself for an Android device. As she didnt use android technology, Ms N ignored these 
emails. She quickly realised her access to her Revolut app and account was blocked.
£1,218 had been transferred from her account without her authorisation.
She complained to Revolut but found it difficult to get her problem resolved. She brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service. A month after her account was blocked, Ms N was 
able to access her account. In early July 2020 the money was reimbursed to Ms Ns 
account.
Ms N was unhappy that whilst shed had the money reimbursed, Revolut hadnt reimbursed 
to Ms Ns foreign currency and cryptocurrency pots. Revolut also gave Ms N £100 for the 
inconvenience caused and £24.83 to reflect the relevant interest for the time she was without 
her money.
Our investigator didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong. Ms N remained disappointed 
that shed lost out on the ability to trade and earn money during the period she was without 
funds. She expected to be reimbursed for her losses.
Ms Ns complaint was referred to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 1 July 2021. I felt there had been delays in Revolut 
sorting out Ms Ns issues and giving her access to her account. This meant I was going to 
ask them to pay her additional compensation of £150.
Ms N responded by saying she felt £500 compensation would be fairer. She didnt see why 
she had to prove that she would definitely have undertaken transactions during the period 
she was locked out of her account.
No response has been received from Revolut.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly theres no dispute that Ms Ns account was accessed without her authority. A transfer 
shed not consented to was made to a named, but unknown, third party. Revolut was able to 
locate the funds and reimbursed Ms N, along with the requisite interest for the time she was 
without her funds.
As Revolut had identified a potential security breach on Ms Ns account, they blocked 
access to it. This is line with what wed expect to see from a bank managing security issues. 
However Ms N wasnt able to access her account for up to a month so I have considered 
whether that level of customer service is fair and reasonable.
To assist me in assessing this aspect, Ive reviewed Ms Ns account terms and conditions. I 
couldnt see any specific time period indicating when a customer would get access back to 
their app and account.  
So Ive reviewed what standards tend to be followed within the banking industry when banks 
block and take steps to protect customer accounts. A period of 10 days is not uncommon.
To be unable to access your account for a month is quite a considerable period. Ive also 
reviewed the interaction between Ms N and Revolut through their online chat facility. There 
seems to have been a lack of urgency in how Revolut approached this issue.  
Putting things right
Whilst its not my role to tell Revolut how to manage their systems and processes, I can 
decide that the impact on individual customers  like Ms N  has not been fair and 
reasonable. Because of the time taken to resolve issues here, I believe this is the case in 
Ms Ns case.
I think its fair Revolut pay her an additional £150 for the inconvenience caused.
I know Ms Ns main concern is that she was unable to use her funds to trade currencies and 
earn additional funds during the period she had no funds. Ive seen no evidence that Ms N 
would have done this trading nor the profit she would have earned although Ive considered 
the figures Ms N has provided to us showing the value of her holdings in January 2021. 
I appreciate Ms N believes its harsh to expect her to prove that she definitely would have 
traded during that period but what Im considering is the actual impact on her and not 
potential gains. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to add further to the 
compensation paid to Ms N.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Revolut Ltd to pay Ms N an 
additional £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman