DRN-3672402
The complaint
Mr J is complaining on behalf of the trustees (Mr B, Mrs J and Ms L) of a trust, about the 
poor service provided by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) when responding to Mr 
Js information requests on behalf of the settlor, Mr B. The trust held his whole of life with-
benefits policy.
What happened
On 20 January 2021, Mr J wrote to Aviva to ask them a number of questions about trust 
assets settled by Mr B and held by Aviva. Mr B was elderly and had asked Mr J to help him 
clarify and tidy up his assets. Mr Js questions to Aviva were aimed at helping with that 
process, and related to two different products  the whole of life policy, and a separate bond. 
The request for information was dealt with by two different teams  one for each product, so 
the complaints have been dealt with separately and this decision deals only with the 
correspondence about the whole of life policy.
Around three weeks after his first letter, Mr J had heard nothing from Aviva so sent them a 
reminder. At around the same time, Aviva wrote to Mr B, asking him for some details to help 
them identify Mr J. Mr B sent the relevant information to Aviva around the end of February 
and Mr J wrote to them at around the same time.  Aviva treated Mr Js letter at the end of 
February as a complaint. 
After several months of further correspondence, Aviva sent a final response to the complaint 
on 2 July 2021, apologising for the delays and saying theyd send a payment of £200 to Mr B 
for the trouble and upset caused. Mr J remained unhappy with Aviva and continued to raise 
questions. On 26 August 2021, Aviva wrote again to Mr J. They answered some more of 
Mr Js questions but didnt increase the amount of compensation they were willing to pay.
Mr J was still unhappy so he came to our service. He thought Aviva should have offered 
significantly more compensation for their failures. Mr J said an additional £500 across the 
two products would be a reasonable reflection of what had happened and the distress it had 
caused Mr B in particular. Aviva declined to pay this amount and so our investigator 
considered the case. His view was that Aviva should pay an additional £100  so a total of 
£300 compensation in relation to this product. 
Aviva didnt respond to our investigators view  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The correspondence on this file is lengthy. Mr J has set out in great detail all of his 
exchanges and frustrations with Aviva. Ive considered everything thats been sent to us from 
both parties but Ive focussed here on the key points. And Ive only considered the 
correspondence relating to the whole of life policy  not the bond.
Its clear Aviva could have done some things better  and theyve apologised for that. 
Specifically, theyve said they could have provided the information Mr J asked for in early 
March  but didnt do so until late May. Theyve not been able to explain the delay except to 
say they missed some correspondence. So its clear there was a delay of two and a half 
months during which Aviva did nothing. 
Im satisfied Aviva answered most of Mr Js questions in late May. I know Mr J wasnt 
completely satisfied with all the answers  he wanted more guidance on taxation and on the 
Trust Registration Service (TRS) than Aviva gave him. But Avivas letters were clear that 
Mr J would need to seek advice elsewhere on these matters  which isnt unreasonable. 
Finally, Mr J wanted to clarify whether Aviva held any other assets for Mr B. But Aviva said 
theyd only release this information to Mr B  which again isnt unreasonable. 
Aviva continued to attempt to address Mr Js questions. I cant see that there were any 
significant delays after late May  there was regular correspondence between both parties 
with Aviva making reasonable efforts. Quite a bit of this was about new questions or about 
issues in relation to the bond which I dont consider relevant to this decision.  
So Im satisfied that the delays caused by Aviva in relation to the whole of life policy were 
limited to two and a half months  from early March to late May. Im aware Mr J would 
contest that and say that it ran until late August at the earliest. But as Ive outlined above, Im 
persuaded Aviva had answered most of his questions by the end of May and the 
correspondence that followed was dealt with promptly.
Putting things right
Having decided that Aviva should have dealt with Mr Js request two and a half months 
earlier, I have to think about the impact this has had on the trustees. Im aware Mr B is 
elderly, and was very keen to get this resolved  he was worried he might pass away before 
it was all sorted. Its completely understandable that an elderly customer would be upset 
about a two and a half month delay in sorting out his financial affairs and about the effort 
Mr J was having to go to in chasing Aviva and getting to the bottom of things. I dont think 
Avivas payment of £200 does quite enough to recognise this. Instead, Im satisfied our 
investigators recommendation of an additional £100 is fair. 
As our investigator explained to Mr J, our service can only award compensation to an eligible 
complainant  not their representative. So although I realise how much time and energy Mr J 
has spent on this matter, this doesnt form part of my decision. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding the trustees complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited need to pay an additional £100 to Mr B in recognition of the distress their delays 
caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mrs J and 
Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman