DRN-3977816
The complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly gave him 
a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr H acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. The cash price of the car was £7,650 and this was financed by the credit 
agreement. Mr H was required to make 42 monthly repayments of £307.63.
Mr H complained to Moneybarn in March 2022. He said their decision to lend to him was 
irresponsible, as he had a poor credit history and the agreement made things worse. 
Moneybarn sent Mr H their final response to his complaint in April 2022. They said theyd 
completed a credit search for Mr H, verified his income by way of wage slips and used a 
calculation to allow for appropriate expenditure before making the decision to lend to Mr H. 
Moneybarn said these checks showed that Mr Hs existing borrowing levels were moderate, 
he had no County Court Judgements (CCJs) and although hed defaulted on some previous 
borrowing, the most recent was 18 months ago and the evidence showed this was being 
repaid. 
Moneybarn said based on their checks, the agreement was affordable, and Mr H had 
maintained his payments, so they didnt agree that their decision to lend to Mr H was 
irresponsible. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He 
said Moneybarn shouldve checked his bank statements before agreeing to lend to him and, 
if theyd done so, theyd have seen that hed been unable to keep up with his committed 
expenditure. Mr H said Moneybarns interpretation of his income and expenses was 
inaccurate. 
Our investigator gave his view that he didnt think Moneybarn had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before granting the finance to Mr H. However, he thought 
that if Moneybarn had completed more thorough checks it would likely have concluded that 
the lending was affordable to Mr H, so he didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said his expenditure looked too low, his wifes salary had been 
unusually high in the months leading up to the finance application, and she had some 
committed expenditure which hadnt been taken into account. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting credit, Moneybarn were required to take steps to ensure the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr H. There isnt a set list of checks that had to be completed, 
but the relevant rules required Moneybarn to complete proportionate affordability checks. 
What is considered proportionate will vary in each case as there isnt a one-size-fits-all 
approach to assessing affordability. In deciding what is proportionate, Moneybarn needed to 
take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the total repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the total charge for credit and Mr Hs individual circumstances. 
The total repayable was around £13,000 over a three-and-a-half-year term. This was a 
relatively significant financial commitment and therefore my starting point is that any 
proportionate affordability check ought to have been relatively thorough. 
Moneybarn says it completed a credit check to understand Mr Hs current financial 
commitments. I havent seen the data gathered from the credit check completed by 
Moneybarn, although they did acknowledge that they saw Mr H had no CCJs and itd been 
18 months since hed had a default registered. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr H has supplied of his credit file, and this shows that Mr H had 
three finance agreements with balances of £4,912 showing in default when he applied for 
the agreement. 
Moneybarn said they reviewed Mr Hs income and expenditure by reviewing Mr Hs payslips. 
The payslips confirm Mr Hs average income to be around £2,600. Based on Mr Hs average 
net income they calculated that the repayments on the agreement represented 11.61% of Mr 
Hs income. Moneybarn said they wouldnt approve an application if the proposed repayment 
was more than 25% of net income, and so on this basis the agreement was affordable. I 
havent seen any evidence of how Moneybarn calculated Mr Hs commitments. 
Given the size of the borrowing, and the balances of defaults that Moneybarn could see on 
Mr Hs credit file, I dont think the affordability checks were reasonable or proportionate. I 
think Moneybarn should have completed a more thorough assessment of Mr Hs 
circumstances before agreeing to lend to him. I think a proportionate affordability 
assessment ought to have included a more detailed verification of Mr Hs committed 
expenditure. 
It's not clear exactly what information Moneybarn would have reviewed if it had tried to verify 
Mr Hs expenditure. In the absence of any check Moneybarn completed, Ive relied on copies 
of Mr Hs bank statements from the months leading up to the lending decision. Im not 
suggesting Moneybarn were required to check bank statements, but I think these give a 
good indication of what information Moneybarn would likely have discovered if it had 
completed more thorough checks. 
Mr Hs partners income was also paid into the account. Mr Hs income was around 63% of 
what was coming into the account, and so Ive considered his share of the committed 
expenditure. 
The statements show that Mr Hs share of regular committed expenditure for things such as 
rent, bills and credit commitments was around £1,900. This figure doesnt include food, 
petrol or other household expenditure. His income appeared to be around £2,600. 
After taking into account what Mr H appeared to be regularly spending on other living costs 
such as food and petrol and thinking about other additional costs such as road tax and 
maintenance, it seems he still had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly payment towards the Moneybarn agreement and have funds left over for any unforeseen emergency 
expenses or modest increases in outgoings. I therefore think that proportionate affordability 
checks would mostly likely have shown the agreement was affordable to Mr H. 
Mr H has said that his partners income had been unusually high in the months leading up to 
taking the agreement, and it was regularly around £200 a month less. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr Hs partners income was lower in the months following the 
agreement, but Im not persuaded that this changes what Moneybarn wouldve seen if theyd 
completed proportionate checks at the time the agreement was entered into. 
Whilst Moneybarn werent required to check bank statements, they are a good indication of 
what Moneybarn wouldve discovered and, I think Moneybarn are unlikely to have 
discovered that Mr Hs partners income was unusually high in the months preceding the 
agreement. 
This means I dont think Moneybarn made an unfair lending decision when it gave Mr H the 
conditional sale agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman