DRN-2272086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Nationwide Building Society acted unreasonably when the fixed rate 
on their mortgage was coming to an end.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage with Nationwide that had a fixed interest rate. This interest 
rate was due to expire on 30 November 2019. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 7 November 2019 to remind them of this. The letter 
explained that, if no new interest rate deal was put in place, their mortgage would revert to 
Nationwides standard variable interest rate (referred to as its Standard Mortgage Rate or 
SMR). The letter set out new rates that Mr and Mrs D could apply for. And it said in order to 
guarantee any new rate was in place for 1 December 2019, their application for a new rate 
would need to be completed by 24 November 2019.
Mr and Mrs D applied for a new rate after 29 November 2019. As a result, their mortgage 
reverted to Nationwides SMR for one month. Their new chosen interest rate then took effect 
from January 2020.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Nationwide. They said they didnt think the letter it had sent to 
them made the deadline to apply for a new rate clear enough. They also felt the wording was 
misleading. And they thought it was unreasonable that Nationwide set such a deadline and it 
couldve processed their request in time for the new rate to apply immediately. They said this 
was because they had applied before their existing interest rate deal expired and the 
confirmation letter they received, confirming their new rate, indicated the processing time 
was shorter than Nationwide indicated. 
Nationwide said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that the rate switch 
process can take up to five working days which is why it set a cut-off date and told 
customers about it. And Mr and Mrs D had applied after this cut-off date.
Mr and Mrs D asked our service to consider the complaint. As well as still thinking this was 
unfair, they said they felt we should require Nationwide to change its processes so other 
customers in a similar position were not affected in the same way.
One of our investigators looked at whatd happened but didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. He was satisfied Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs D notice that the interest 
rate deal on their mortgage was expiring and informed them an application for a new rate 
needed to be completed by a certain date. As this wasnt done, he didnt feel Nationwide 
was wrong to have applied the SMR for a month. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion. They reiterated they didnt agree that 
the letter was clear and that they felt Nationwide was treating them and other customers in a 
similar position unfairly. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have said they want our service to require Nationwide to change its processes 
for how it deals with applications for new rates  specifically the time it takes to deal with 
these. And they also want us to get it to change how it communicates with customers about 
this. But a business is entitled to set its own processes  as these are a matter for its own 
commercial judgement. And our service is not a regulator, so I cant require that these be 
changed, as that is outside of my remit. Our role is to consider the individual circumstances 
of a complaint and decide if we think a business has acted fairly. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs D on 7 November 2019. And Mr 
and Mrs D have confirmed this letter was received. The letter reminded them that their 
existing mortgage interest rate deal was coming to an end that month. I think Nationwide 
acted fairly by sending this reminder. 
I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve been aware from this letter, as well as other information 
provided periodically by Nationwide about their mortgage such as annual statements, that 
after 30 November 2019 their account would be reverting to Nationwides SMR and if they 
wanted to avoid this, they needed to act.  
The letter included the explanation To guarantee your new deal starts next month, youll 
need to complete your application before the 24th of this month. Mr and Mrs D argue that 
information was not sufficiently clear or prominent in the letter and was misleading. But I 
disagree. This information was contained on the first page of the letter and I think it is 
sufficiently prominent. I also think it is clear that if an application for a new rate is not made 
by that date, the new rate wouldnt start in December 2019. Mr and Mrs D say that this 
shouldve been repeated more than once and shown in a different part of the letter. But while 
I agree repeating the information wouldve made it even clearer, I think it is clear and not-
misleading as it is. So, I dont think Nationwide needed to do more or has done anything 
wrong in terms of how this was communicated. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt apply for a new rate until 29 November 2019. So, I dont think 
Nationwide was wrong to initially place the account onto its SMR, in line with the information 
it had given Mr and Mrs D and its usual processes.
Mr and Mrs D have said they think Nationwide would still have been able to process their 
application in time for the rate to apply in December 2019. So, they think it has acted 
unfairly. But again, Nationwide is entitled to decide its own processes. And I dont think it 
was required to treat Mr and Mrs D any differently or deviate from its usual process  
particularly considering it gave Mr and Mrs D clear information about what needed to be 
done and by when, in advance. 
So, taking everything into account I dont think Nationwide has made any errors in its 
handling of this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman