DRN-2708336
The complaint
 Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) cancelled the direct debit to his credit card. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K applied for a credit card with a 12-month interest free balance transfer
offer. He set up a direct debit for payments to be made to it from his Lloyds bank account.
The direct debit was cancelled in June 2019. The direct debit payments didnt start until
September 2019. He paid late fees and interest on the new account. His credit file was
affected.
Mr K complained. He said that it was Lloyds mistake. Because of this, hed paid late fees on
the credit card  and the interest free offer had been cancelled, so he was paying interest on
the balance transferred - £3244.50. Hes told us that hes been charged interest of £601.37
up to September 2020. His credit file had been marked with two late payments.
Lloyds said the direct debit was set up in June 2019. But it was then cancelled in the same
month and reinstated in September 2019. But they accepted it was their error. They sent a
letter to Mr K for him to give to his credit card company  saying that it was their error  and
asking to change his credit file. They paid Mr K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In
September 2020, he said the direct debit was set up on 21 June 2019 and cancelled on 28
June 2019. It was reinstated on 10 September 2019. The balance transfer had been
withdrawn because the monthly payments hadnt been made  so Mr K hadnt met its terms
and conditions. He said that Lloyds payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience was
OK. But they should also ask the credit card company to change Mr Ks credit file. As well as
asking them to reinstate its balance transfer offer. Lloyds should reimburse the late fees
paid.
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators view. They said that there wasnt any evidence
that they cancelled the direct debit. And they couldnt force the credit card company to
change Mr Ks credit file or reinstate its balance transfer offer. They said that Mr K hadnt
tried to reduce the cost of what had happened - say, by taking a loan from another lender.
Our investigator gave a further opinion in October 2020. Hed seen evidence from the credit 
card company which said the direct debit was cancelled by the payer. Lloyds had said to us
they hadnt made an error. But our investigator said - they hadnt provided any evidence to
show that Mr K cancelled the direct debt - and theyd already admitted that they were at fault
in their letter to Mr K in June 2019. He said that Lloyds hadnt tried to resolve matters when
the problems arose  by contacting the credit card company. He didnt see why it was up to
Mr K to borrow money from another lender as a result of Lloyds error. He said Lloyds should
ask the credit card company to reinstate the balance transfer offer and remove the adverse
information on Mr Ks credit file. And they should reimburse Mr K for the late fees paid.
Mr K asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take a different view to our investigator regarding how to settle this complaint.
I can see Mr Ks frustration here. He successfully applied for a new credit card with a
balance transfer offer. And, as a result of the direct debit getting cancelled, he lost the 12-
month interest-free period, paid debit interest and late fees  and had his credit file marked
with late payments. Hes told us that hes paid interest of £601.37 to the credit card company
up to September 2020. Hes complained also to the credit card company about what
happened  this is also being reviewed by this service.
The key issue here is how and why the direct debit to the credit card company was
cancelled, and by whom. Lloyds originally admitted it was their fault. In their customer notes,
they said: cannot disprove there wasnt an issue with registering DD on time, we are
happy to accept liability to resolve issue for customerwe did not cancel DD however as
customer has been informed by (credit card company). Lloyds also said to us  in sending
us information about the Mr Ks complaint - that they accept it was their error.
And, Lloyds said in their letter dated 24 February 2020 (directed to the credit card company)
(Mr K) has been impacted by an error Lloyds have made with a Direct Debit to yourselves.
This has resulted in the customer missing two payments with yourself between June 2019
and September 2019. We would appreciate if you could make a request to update the
customers credit file to reflect this, as this issue has not been their fault.
It is clear that it wasnt cancelled by the credit card company. Weve seen their records
which show that the direct debit was set up on 21 June 2019 and then cancelled on 28 June
2019. The description is stated as code 1. Theyve told us this means cancellation
instructed by payer. Theyve told Mr K that it couldve been cancelled by either the bank or
Mr K.
Weve also seen evidence from the credit card company that Mr K called them as soon as
he returned from holiday  theyd texted him - on 10 September 2019 - and set up the direct
debit again. This suggests that he wouldnt have cancelled it originally  only nine weeks
before - and was acting responsibly.
So, on the balance of evidence, I must conclude that Lloyds cancelled the direct debit  in
error. And this has caused Mr K to lose the benefit of his 12-month interest-free balance
transfer, pay late fees and have his credit file marked with two late payments.
So, subject to any comments that either Mr K or Lloyds may have, I am minded to uphold Mr
Ks complaint. And I will ask Lloyds to:
- pay Mr K the interest hes paid to the credit card company as a result of losing the
12-month interest free period. Ive seen the statements (as have Lloyds). Between
October 2019 and September 2020 - this amounts to £642.26.
- pay Mr K the interest hes paid on late fees of £10.78
- refund Mr K one late fee paid to the credit card company of £12.
- work positively with the credit card company to ensure the late payment markers are
removed from Mr Ks credit file. If necessary, Lloyds may need to support Mr K in
filing a Notice of Correction to the Credit Reference Agencies.- This in addition to the £200 already paid to Mr K for distress and inconvenience.
Mr K accepted my findings. Lloyds didnt comment.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As Mr K accepted my findings, and Lloyds didnt make any comments, I wont be departing 
from what I said in my provisional decision for the reasons I gave in it. So my final decision is 
that Lloyds must do what I suggested here.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should:
 -Pay Mr K the interest hes paid to the credit card company as a result of losing the
12-month interest free period. Between October 2019 and September 2020 - this amounts to 
£642.26.
- Pay Mr K the interest hes paid on late fees of £10.78
- Refund Mr K one late fee paid to the credit card company of £12.
- Work positively with the credit card company to ensure the late payment markers are
removed from Mr Ks credit file. If necessary, Lloyds Bank PLC may need to support Mr K in
filing a Notice of Correction to the Credit Reference Agencies.
- These are all in addition to the £200 already paid to Mr K for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman