DRN-3923988
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr C made to HSBC UK Bank Plc for a commercial 
loan. Hes unhappy that HSBC initially told him he could use his own solicitor for the 
transaction, then subsequently told him the firm hed chosen wasnt on its panel for 
commercial transactions. Mr C ended up with two lots of conveyancing costs, and a higher 
overall bill than hed anticipated. HSBC has reduced its own transaction costs by way of an 
apology, but Mr C says hes still out of pocket.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr C and HSBC Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator thought HSBC had 
dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr C being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have to decide if HSBC made a mistake, because its admitted doing so and sought to 
make amends. What I have to decide is whether HSBC has done enough. The effect of 
HSBCs error is that Mr C ended up with two solicitors bills instead of one. If HSBC had 
given him the right information at the outset, one of two things would have happened; either:
Mr C would have used one firm (HSBCs choice) and received one bill, or 
hed still have used his own firm, and HSBC would then have instructed its own firm for 
its legal work, and hed still have received two bills.
In either case, its reasonable to presume the overall cost to Mr C would have been less than 
he ended up paying, as thered have been no duplication of work. The difficulty here is that 
Mr C hasnt demonstrated that the difference would have exceeded the amount HSBC has, 
in effect, already paid him, by virtue of the reduction in its loan arrangement fee. 
Its been two months since our investigator invited Mr C to provide evidence that he was still 
out of pocket. It would have been a simple enough step for Mr C to have obtained an 
itemised bill from the second solicitors and ask the first one whether any of it was a repetition 
of the work it had billed him for. Without further evidence, which Im satisfied Mr C has had 
ample time to produce, I cant reasonably and fairly find in his favour.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman