DRN-2525783
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a window supplied with finance from Shawbrook Bank Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that decision, I explained that in order to 
find that there had been a breach of contract, I would need to see evidence that the window 
was defective or badly fitted. I said that an independent inspection report could help to 
decide this but that in this case, there was no inspection report because Mrs B arranged for 
the window to be repaired before it could be inspected. I also said that it would have been 
useful to have a report from the contractor who repaired the window, but that there wasnt 
one.
I explained that I didnt agree with Mrs B when she said that the fact that the window was 
repaired was sufficient evidence that there was a fault. I explained that because the window 
had been in use for around 5 months before the issue occurred. I thought it was unlikely that 
there was a fault with the window. I concluded that it was more likely that the window was 
damaged when it was blown open in the storm.
I concluded that I hadnt seen enough evidence to persuade me that the window wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
I invited Mrs B and Shawbrook to let me have any further evidence or arguments they 
wanted to make before I finally determined the matter.
Mrs B said she didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said shed been told that the 
windows were defective, but she didnt have a report to confirm this. She also said that she 
didnt think the supplier of the windows had fulfilled its contractual obligations and said the 
supplier held technical details which hadnt been considered here.
Mrs B was invited to let me have any further evidence she wanted to consider. I havent 
been provided with any further evidence.
Shawbrook didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the further pints which Mrs B has made. But ultimately, and as I 
explained in my provisional decision, without any evidence that the windows were defective, 
or that they were fitted poorly, Im unable to safely conclude that the windows werent of 
satisfactory quality or that the installation was below standard. I still think its unlikely that 
windows which functioned as intended for the first 5 months were faulty at the point of 
supply.
My final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in my provisional decision  my final decision is 
that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman