DRN-2096523
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr H paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return. He 
thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
I understand that Mr H has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank 
of Scotland has looked into its records for him and has told us that he first opened one of its 
fee-fee accounts during the late 1990s. He kept a-fee free account until August 2012 when 
Bank of Scotland sold him the URCA. In June 2019, he switched to a Reward account. The 
Reward account had a lower fee than the URCA and Bank of Scotland would waive it if Mr H 
managed the account according to certain criteria. In June 2020, Mr H went back to a fee-
free account. 
I believe that Bank of Scotlands records about Mr Hs account history are probably reliable, 
and I have taken them to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review him case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr Hs case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr H and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
As Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr H almost ten years ago, neither side has been 
able to send us any detailed records from the time. So, when I cant be sure what happened, 
Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred. 
In 2012, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well 
as giving Mr H a choice, I would have expected Bank of Scotland to tell him about the 
URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also have 
expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the account could provide. 
Mr H has told us that Bank of Scotland sold him the URCA during a discussion in one of its 
branches and advised him to buy it. Bank of Scotland has agreed that it sold the URCA to Mr 
H through one its branches, but it has said that it did so on an information-only basis. Im 
aware that this was its usual practice in 2012 and I havent seen sufficiently convincing 
evidence for me to think it changed its procedures for Mr H. So, I have considered this case 
to be about a non-advised sale. 
In 2012, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. 
Mr H has told us that during the discussion Bank of Scotland encouraged him to buy the 
URCA for its benefits and sold it to him in a pushy manner. Hes said that Bank of 
Scotland didnt check to see if he needed the benefits. Hes told us that he was ineligible for 
the travel insurance and that Bank  of Scotland  told him he would  receive  a £5 a month  
credit  to (his) account  for being  in credit  however  this was almost  never  the case  and 
was something  (he) I didn't  benefit  from.
Firstly,  I accept  that Bank  of Scotland  may have  spoken  positively,  or encouragingly,  to 
Mr H about  the URCA,  but Im not convinced  that it denied  him a choice.  At the time in 
question,  Mr H had held a fee-free  account  for several  years  and I havent  seen  
anything  to make  me think  that Bank  of Scotland  told him he couldnt  keep  that account,  
or that it pushed  the URCA  onto him unfairly.  And as Bank  of Scotland  sold him the 
URCA  on an information-only  basis,  it didnt  need  to check  if he needed  the benefits.  It 
did however  have  to tell him about  them  and about  the monthly  fee. 
Bank  of Scotland  has sent us a copy  of an application  form for the URCA  which  Mr H 
seems  to have  signed  either  during  or immediately  after the discussion.  The form 
mentions  some  of the information  which  Bank  of Scotland  says  it gave  to Mr H and Im 
satisfied  that it did so. I also think  its highly  likely  that Bank  of Scotland  told Mr H about  
the URCAs  benefits  during  the discussion;  after all it was trying  to sell the URCA  to him 
and it was in its own best interests  to tell him what  the URCA  could  provide.  
I also think  its highly  likely  that Bank  of Scotland  told Mr H about  the monthly  fees 
during  the discussion,  as I doubt  it could  have  presented  the benefits  as free. The fees 
would  also appear  on Mr Hs bank  statements  so it would  have  been  difficult  for Bank  of 
Scotland  to hide them  from him
The £5 a month  credit  Mr H mentioned  was a potential  benefit  of the URCA.  Bank  of 
Scotland  would  pay it to customers  with URCAs  who managed  the account  according  to 
set rules.  I accept  Mr Hs comments  that he may not have  benefited  from this very often  
as he didnt  usually  meet  the rules,  but this doesnt  mean  that Bank  of Scotland  treated  
him unfairly.
Mr H hasnt  told us great  deal about  why he believes  he was ineligible  for the travel  
insurance  that came  with the account.  The policy  provided  family  cover  in many  
countries  around  the world.  Mr H seems  to have  been  within  the age range  for the policy  
and not to have  failed  any other  eligibility  rules.  He has mentioned  that both his wife and 
his daughter  suffered  from several  physical  and mental  health  conditions  and I accept  
that they may not have  been  able to claim  for problems  arising  from these  conditions,  
but this doesnt  mean  they werent  covered  for other  events.  And taking  the benefits  of 
the URCA  as a package,  as Mr H drove  a car and used  a mobile  phone,  some  of the 
other  benefits  may also have  been  useful  for him.
Mr H has also said that he finds  complex  information,  such  that associated  with the 
URCA,  difficult  to understand  and doesnt  think  that Bank  of Scotland  treated  him fairly  
due to these  difficulties  and his familys  health  problems.  I appreciate  these  difficulties  may well be stressful  for Mr H, but I havent  seen  anything  to show  that Bank  of 
Scotland  knew  about  these  problems  or that Mr H asked  it for help with them.  I dont  
think  it treated  him unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman