DRN-2958166
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Assistance (UK) Limiteds handling of a claim under his home 
emergency insurance.
What happened
Mr M has a home insurance policy which includes home emergency cover underwritten by 
AXA.
On 19 May 2021, Mr M rang AXA to report a fire in his electricity fuse box, which had 
disabled almost all the lights and power sockets in his home. AXA agreed to arrange for an 
engineer to attend as soon as possible. 
Mr M says he was told the engineer would be in touch within two hours. He rang back 
around two and a half hours later, when hed heard nothing. 
AXA then told him their engineer couldnt attend and they couldnt find an alternative 
engineer in Mr Ms area. They said Mr M should arrange his own engineer and they would 
cover the costs in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr M had to leave work that afternoon to attend to the emergency (losing five and half hours 
work which had to be covered by him taking leave). He says he also had to take emergency 
leave the following two days  a Thursday and Friday (eight hours each day).
Mr Ms engineer attended on the next day (Saturday), which meant Mr M had to cancel an 
overtime shift, which would have been paid at time and a half.
Because of the lack of lighting and power, Mr Ms family  including children  had to go and 
stay with a relative over this period.
Mr Ms engineer charged him £800 to fix the problem. AXA initially told Mr M theyd only 
cover £500 of this because this was the maximum payment limit set out in the policy.
Mr M complained to AXA. They offered to pay him £200 in compensation for his trouble and 
upset but said they wouldnt offer more than £500 for Mr Ms costs.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and contacted a media organisation who report on consumer 
affairs. After they contacted AXA for comment, AXA agreed to cover the full £800 costs Mr M 
had incurred and pay him £500 in compensation.
Mr M still wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He says AXA 
failed to fulfil their obligations to him, which caused him significant inconvenience and meant 
he lost earnings and leave from work. He doesnt think the £500 compensation is enough to 
cover his trouble and upset.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AXA needed to do anything more for Mr M. 
She felt the £1,300 already paid to Mr M to cover his costs and trouble and upset was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that AXA failed to provide the service that Mr M was entitled to 
expect, having bought and paid for his insurance policy.
I think its fair to say that for most customers, this kind of emergency cover has two broad 
benefits. First, if there is an insured accident which causes damage to your home, the 
insurer will cover the cost of repairs. And second, the insurer arranges an immediate 
professional response to the emergency to make things safe and to carry out repairs.
AXA have, eventually, covered the cost of the repairs to Mr Ms home. So, they have 
delivered that aspect of the cover, albeit they appear to have done so only after media 
involvement in the case.
However, they left Mr M to arrange for an appropriately qualified electrician to carry out the 
repairs and offered absolutely no assistance to help him do that. So, they completely failed 
to deliver on that part of the service they were supposed to offer to Mr M.
Mr M in fact found an electrician who repaired the fuse box within a few days  the fire was 
on the Wednesday afternoon, the repairs were carried out on the Saturday. And, as I say, 
AXA have eventually agreed to cover the full cost  which was relatively high because the 
electrician attended on a weekend and told Mr M he had to cancel other jobs.
Given the nature of the fire in the fuse box, its not clear the full repairs would have been 
completed very much quicker than that if AXA had arranged for an engineer to attend on the 
day. Whilst they would have been expected to make things safe, they may not have been 
able to repair the damage and restore power to most of the house there and then.
We might expect AXA to respond immediately to an emergency, to get someone out to make 
things safe and prevent further damage, but the policy doesnt commit them to completing 
the repairs within any particular timescale. And thats to be expected given the vast range of 
circumstances in which they might be required to respond to an emergency.
However, its possible that some of the three day wait may have been avoided. And its 
absolutely clear that AXA left Mr M to his own devices in terms of getting the problem 
resolved  contrary to what they promise in the policy documents.
So, I can understand Mr Ms annoyance and frustration. And I think its absolutely beyond 
question that he should be appropriately compensated for the trouble and upset he was 
caused by AXAs failure to deliver the service they promised. 
So, the only remaining question for me in making this decision is whether the £500 AXA 
have paid Mr M in compensation is sufficient given the extent of the trouble and upset he 
experienced. 
I know this will disappoint Mr M, but I think the £500 is sufficient. Ill explain why.I think its important to say at the outset that I have to try to separate out the inconvenience, 
stress and upset Mr M experienced because there was a fire in his fuse box from the 
additional and unnecessary stress, inconvenience and upset he was caused by AXAs 
failings.
Mr M says he felt he was at his wits end when AXA told him he was on his own and would 
have to arrange the repairs himself. I can understand that. It must have been very stressful. 
And all of that is due to AXAs failure to support him in the way the policy promised.
He says his family had to move out of the house whilst there was no power, heating or hot 
water. That was no doubt inconvenient and stressful, although Mr M says there were no 
extra expenses involved in that (the family moved in with a relative for a short time)  or at 
least none that he expects AXA to pay for.
Its also not unlikely the family would have had to move out of the house even if AXA had 
responded to the claim as they should have. There is no guarantee the repairs to restore 
power would have been possible on the day of the accident. 
The time spent out of the house may have been slightly shorter  its impossible to be sure 
at this stage. But I think a large part of that stress and inconvenience was an inevitable 
consequence of the fire rather than AXAs failings.
AXA say that Mr M was, at first, seemingly happy with their offer to pay £1,300 in total to 
cover the cost of repairs and compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr M is entitled to reflect again on that, however much he may have seemed to accept the 
original offer when it was first proposed. And hes since then said that he missed work due to 
AXAs failure to respond properly to his claim.
Without going into too much detail, Mr M told us he missed work on the Wednesday 
afternoon when the fire happened, and he had to leave to sort things out. He says he missed 
five and a half hours work that day. 
He says he couldnt work on the Thursday or Friday (eight hours each day). And he couldnt 
do pre-arranged overtime on the Saturday (12 hours pay lost). At his hourly rate of pay, Mr 
M calculates that to be in excess of £620 lost.
Weve explained to Mr M that we dont directly compensate customers for lost hours of work. 
If we did, wed be compensating those with higher-paying jobs far more than others, which 
wouldnt seem fair. It might also be unfair to insurers to ask them to cover large losses if a 
very highly-paid customer were to suffer a few hours delay. 
In this particular case, Mr M agreed when we asked him to confirm that he didnt in fact lose 
pay for the Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Hes a full-time employee of a public sector 
organisation. But he told us he did have to take emergency leave  which was taken out of 
his annual leave entitlement. 
I can appreciate that would be annoying. But again, it seems to me Mr M would have lost 
some of that time at work even if AXA had dealt with the emergency in line with the policy 
terms. 
All of this assumes that Mr M wanted to be there to deal with the electrician who attended, 
rather than leave that to other family members. That, of course, is for him to decide  I know he has children who needed to be looked after. It goes without saying that if Mr M didnt 
need to be there, then his argument for compensation for missed work falls away anyway.
But if we assume Mr M had to be there to deal with things, he would have had to leave work 
on the Wednesday anyway  whether AXA provided an engineer or not. And he would have 
had to miss work when the electrician attended to carry out the permanent repairs.
I also have to take into account that the incident happened on the Wednesday afternoon and 
the electrician carried out the repairs in one visit (as it happened, on the Saturday). 
Its not absolutely clear why Mr M had to miss the full three and a half days at work. I can 
appreciate that finding an electrician and arranging for their visit took some of that time - and 
that must have been very annoying and frustrating for Mr M. But it presumably didnt take the 
whole of the three days leading up to the visit on the Saturday.
In summary, I am convinced Mr M lost time at work  and lost leave as a result. Its possible 
 though by no means certain - he may have been able to earn overtime on the Saturday. 
But I think his overall losses caused by AXAs failings  rather than by the sheer fact of the 
fire  have been adequately covered in the £500 compensation already paid.
Much more recently, Mr M has also suggested that he ought to be refunded the premiums 
hes paid for his policy, given that AXA failed to deliver the promised service.
Im afraid I cant agree with this. The policy Mr M has is a home insurance policy. Emergency 
cover is just one part of it. Mr M hasnt suggested any failings in the rest of the agreement.
Perhaps as importantly, AXA have paid £800 to cover the cost of the repairs to the fuse box. 
So, Mr M has clearly benefitted from having the cover in place, even if the service provided 
has at times fallen far short of what he had a right to expect.
Ill try to sum things up. Due directly to AXAs failings, Mr M suffered the inconvenience, 
stress and frustration of having to find an electrician to carry the repairs himself. He didnt 
get the immediate help in an emergency that hed paid for. He got no call back in the time 
promised when he reported the incident. He had to take time out of work to arrange for the 
repairs to be carried out. 
AXA have admitted that the service they provided to Mr M was unacceptable. But Im 
satisfied that £500 in compensation for Mr Ms trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Im aware Mr M has a broader issue about the service provided by AXA in his geographical 
area. It seems in this case that when AXAs preferred engineer wasnt available, they had no 
immediate second option in that area. And they were unable to access and provide the 
professional help Mr M required. This may have been partly as a result of the COVID 
pandemic, since it appears AXAs engineer was isolating at the relevant time.
I can understand Mr Ms point of view about that issue. But I have to ask him to understand 
our role. We are an informal arbitration service, operating as an alternative to the courts to 
resolve disputes between financial businesses and individual customers. 
We dont have any power or authority to either ask or tell AXA to change the way they do 
business. If they chose to operate in a certain way and that causes problems for individual 
customers, we can certainly look at those individual complaints and resolve matters fairly, 
with compensation awarded as and when appropriate. But we cant tell AXA to change their 
business model or processes and procedures.If Mr M feels strongly that there is a more fundamental issue, he could refer the matter to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). As the financial regulator, they do have wider powers 
than our complaint-handling service and can comment on financial businesses way of 
operating. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman