DRN-1825553
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a finance agreement she entered into with MotoNovo Finance Limited 
for the purchase of a car was mis-sold and not properly explained.
What happened
Mrs K entered into a finance agreement on the 10 June 2019 for the purchase of a Range 
Rover. She was part exchanging two other cars which had outstanding finance and were in 
negative equity. Mrs K explains that she was told that the negative equity would be added on 
to the purchase price of the car she was buying. The negative equity was converted to a 
personal loan and although it formed part of the agreement for the purchase of the car it was 
a separate loan amount with a separate monthly payment. The car was eventually returned 
as it was not of satisfactory quality and the agreement unwound. Mrs K says that she then 
discovered that the negative equity was part of a personal loan which she was still 
responsible for. She said that this was never explained to her and she never would have 
gone ahead if she had known.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think that MotoNovo had done anything 
wrong. She checked the figures in the finance agreement which were correct. She thought 
that the personal loan agreement element was clearly set out in the agreement that Mrs K 
had signed.
Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I can understand why Mrs K may have been under the 
impression that the negative equity was in effect being added to the price of the car. I have 
looked at the agreement in detail and I agree with the conclusions of the investigator, but I 
acknowledge that this was a complicated sale with two different cars being part exchanged.
Mrs K was aware that the two cars that were being part exchanged had finance owing on 
them and the amount that the dealership was paying for them in part exchange wasnt 
enough to clear that finance. There was a shortfall on both cars which amounted to £6369 in 
total. This was worked into the agreement for the new car.
The dealership told MotoNovo that the car cost £18,220 but they sold it for £17,490 so Mrs K 
was advanced an extra £730 on the car which in fact reduced the negative equity balance. 
Mrs K paid £2000 cash deposit. The remaining £3640 was financed as a personal loan.
I can understand why Mrs K may have thought it was added on to the car. The 
arrangements are complex, and I do understand why she said she couldnt make sense of 
the figures. 
I wasnt at the dealership and so I dont know what was said. There are usually lots of 
discussions about many things during the process of buying a car. So, Ive looked closely at 
the paperwork which is the written record of what was agreed. Mrs K has signed the 
agreements where the personal loan element is clearly set out together with an explanation 
of how it would work and what the repayments were. If she didnt understand or it didnt 
reflect what she was expecting, then I would have expected her to raise this at the time. 
Like the investigator I have looked carefully at the agreement and I cant say that it is 
unclear, or the figures are incorrect. In these circumstances, I know it will be a 
disappointment to Mrs K, but I cant ask MotoNovo to do any more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
4 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman