DRN-2383078
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B is unhappy that Hargreaves Landsdown Asset Management Limited 
required a Grant of Probate before releasing funds in an account. 
The late Mrs Bs husband, Mr B, has been dealing with the estate. For ease I will refer to all 
actions of the estate as being those of Mr B.
What happened
After Mrs B sadly passed away Mr B contacted Hargreaves Landsdown about an account 
she held with them. Hargreaves Landsdown said that in order to distribute the funds in the 
account a Grant of Probate was required. Mr B was unhappy with this as it would cost £250 
and as her husband, and next of kin, he didnt see why this was required. Mr B also asked 
why he wasnt told about this requirement in advance.
Hargreaves Landsdown explained that because the balance of the account was over a 
specified limit a Grant of Probate would be required. They explained this is the legal 
authority to administer the estate. Whilst expressing sympathy and being understanding of 
the sensitive subject matter, Hargreaves Landsdown didnt think it appropriate to reimburse 
the cost Mr B incurred. Unhappy with this Mr B came to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought Hargreaves Landsdown 
hadnt acted unfairly by not agreeing to refund the cost of the Grant of Probate. Mr B 
disagreed so the complaint has come to for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont 
comment on each particular point. Ive condensed what happened into a short summary 
which reflects the informal nature of our service.
I think its important to let Mr B know that I can see this has been a very difficult time for him. 
Losing a spouse is an extremely emotional event and dealing with the associated paperwork 
can be distressing. I can also see how strongly he feels about what happened.
Mr B confirmed to us that the main point of this complaint was he wasnt told by Hargreaves 
Landsdown about the specified limit beyond which a Grant of Probate is required before Mrs 
B passed away. Had he been told about the limit he couldve arranged things around it. 
I can see Mr Bs frustration here because if he had known about the requirement for a Grant 
of Probate for balances over the specified limit then he and the late Mrs B couldve 
organised their finances differently. That wouldve saved the requirement for a Grant of 
Probate as well as the cost involved in obtaining one. But I dont think that means 
Hargreaves Landsdown have done anything wrong by not making the limit clear prior to Mrs 
B passing away. 
Asking for a Grant of Probate is usual business practice for financial institutions, so 
Hargreaves Landsdown havent acted unusually here. And the limit set by Hargreaves 
Landsdown isnt uncommon. Also financial institutions arent required disclose the account 
limits for a Grant of Probate, and its not unusual they dont do so.
The estate pack Mr B was provided with after Mrs B passed away explains that unless the 
value of the accounts is less than the specified limit Hargreaves Landsdown requires a copy 
of the Grant of Probate. This is the first time Mr B was made aware of the limit. 
Hargreaves Landsdown told Mr B that they are not legal or tax specialists so it wouldnt be 
right for them to provide advice on how to avoid legal documents. I agree with them and 
dont think it would be right for them to do so which is effectively what they would be doing 
had they disclosed the specified limit prior to Mrs B passing away.
Mr B feels that Hargreaves Landsdown dont believe he was his wifes husband and doesnt 
understand why the Grant of Probate was needed when he and the late Mrs B were married. 
I want to assure Mr B that its not in doubt, for either me or Hargreaves Landsdown, that he 
and the late Mrs B were married. And Hargreaves Landsdown mean no offence when 
requesting the Grant of Probate, but when someone passes away there are requirements 
which need to be met regardless of the relationship of the person administering the estate.
 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Hargreaves Landsdown acted 
fairly and reasonably, and in line with their terms of business, when dealing with Mr B. 
Theres no requirement for Hargreaves Landsdown to disclose the Grant of Probate limit to 
Mr B or any other account holder.
Thats not to say this situation hasnt added inconvenience and upset to an already difficult 
and emotional time for Mr B; it clearly has. However Im satisfied Hargreaves Landsdown 
treated Mr B fairly when implementing their Grant of Probate procedures.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman