DRN-3147937
The complaint
Ms C says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says the debt, and the ongoing 
repayments to it, worsened her financial situation. She thinks Morses shouldve made better 
checks and not lent to her.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld in part. But I 
reached a slightly different outcome to our adjudicator. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Ms C between
May 2016 and May 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below.
loan start dateamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)end date
1 06/05/16 £1,000 52 04/05/17
2 04/05/17 £1,000 52 18/05/18
3 18/05/18 £1,000 52 02/05/19
4 02/05/19 £1,000 52 17/07/20
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Morses had irresponsibly lent 
loans 1 and 2. But she did think the lending pattern itself showed a reliance on this type of credit 
by loan 3, and so Morses shouldnt have approved loans 3 and 4.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it did not consider three loans in two 
years to be excessive. And the checks it did at the time of sale showed that the lending was 
affordable because Ms C repaid the loans on time.
The adjudicator didnt change her opinion about the complaint. And as no agreement has 
been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on 
our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Loans 1 and 2
For all of Ms Cs loans she needed to repay £35 each week for a year. Ive seen a record of the 
information Ms C provided when she completed her loan applications. I dont have full 
information for loan 1, but for loan 2 it was recorded that Ms C said she had a weekly income of 
£440 and she had regular weekly outgoings of £185. I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms 
Cs circumstances were different at loan 1. And so, I think it was likely and reasonable for 
Morses to think that these loans were affordable for Ms C.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms C mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Ms Cs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained for loans 1 and 2.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve these loans was reasonable. Im not intending 
to uphold Ms Cs complaint about loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3
At loan 3 Ms Cs income was shown to have risen to £500 but her expenditure had fallen to
£130. So, it still looks likely the loan was still affordable for Ms C.
But Ms C had been borrowing from Morses now for around two years and she was making a 
commitment for another year. I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review
Ms Cs financial situation. And I think that Morses needed to verify the information it found out 
where possible. This is to make sure Ms C was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably. I dont think Morses did this.
But, Ms C hasnt provided any further information that would allow me to say what Morses 
wouldve likely seen if it had made more in-depth checks. And so, I cant say the information it had before approving this loan was incorrect. Because of this I cant say for certain the loans 
werent affordable and so Im not intending to uphold her complaint on this basis.
And our adjudicator thought that the lending pattern itself was harmful by loan 3. Having looked 
at everything I have been provided I dont agree this was the case. Whilst Ms C had been lending 
for around two years there hadnt been an increase in the amount she was borrowing and there 
were no obvious repayment problems. And, as Ive said above, this loan looked otherwise 
affordable. So, Im not intending to uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 3.
Loan 4
I think that by loan 4 the lending pattern, and the information Morse gathered about Ms Cs 
circumstances showed that this lending was likely to be irresponsible. This is because:
Her income had fallen to £325 but her expenditure had not reduced by a similar 
amount. So, the repayment was a much higher proportion of her disposable income.
She had now been borrowing for three years and she was making a commitment for 
another year. In my view this is a long time to be using high cost credit.
There had been no break in the lending up to this point. So Morses ought to have known 
that Ms C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to 
meet an ongoing need. And that the lending was not sustainable.
I think that:
Loan 4 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right.
Morses, and Ms C, both received my provisional decision. Morses didnt respond to it. And 
Ms C said she agreed with what I had said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Ms C didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I dont need to add 
anything to what I said earlier as no one has raised any issues with my earlier decision. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 4, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have done.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms C loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Ms C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loan 4 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Cs 
credit file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses 
should give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Cs complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman