DRN-2900480
The complaint
Mr O complains that he didnt receive confirmation of a £5,000 additional payment he made 
to his mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). And its telephone system 
wouldnt allow him to contact Halifax to gain confirmation of receipt.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr O made an additional payment of £5,000 to his Halifax mortgage and 
expected to receive confirmation of it in the post within a few weeks  he says thats what 
usually happens.
Mr O said he became worried after about a month and tried to call Halifax. But Halifaxs 
phone system wouldnt take his call. In early June 2020, Mr O wrote to Halifax to complain. 
He received a call a few days later but asked the caller to put everything in writing because 
he couldnt be sure that it was Halifax that called him. Mr O says he didnt receive a written 
response from Halifax but did  sometime later  receive a statement showing the 
overpayment.
As Halifaxs phone system wouldnt allow him to make contact with it and as Halifax didnt 
respond to his complaint, Mr O says it should pay him compensation.
Halifax has provided a copy of a letter dated 8 June 2020 which it says was sent to Mr O in 
response to his complaint. The letter confirms receipt of Mr Os additional payment and that 
it wouldnt recalculate the contractual monthly payment unless it received instructions to do 
so. But it said it has now reduced the monthly payments based on the additional amount 
paid and used the overpayments that were part of the previous two months contractual 
monthly payments to reduce the capital balance. It also offered to refund those 
overpayments.
In its letter, Halifax explained that making an additional payment does not automatically 
result in a recalculation of the mortgage but does reduce the capital balance and the interest 
charged. It also apologised for the increased waiting times for telephone customers and 
explained that was due to unprecedented call volumes and a severe shortage of staff 
caused by the covid-19 pandemic. It further explained that, on occasion, it may not have 
been able to continue with a call if it was not considered urgent.
Mr O complained to us in July 2020. Our investigator found that Halifax had not made a 
mistake as it wouldnt usually acknowledge receipt of additional lump sum payments over 
£1,000 and they wouldnt recalculate the contractual monthly payment unless the customer 
specifically asked for that. But, while she acknowledged the demands placed on Halifax as a 
result of the covid-19 pandemic, she thought it should pay Mr O £100 to acknowledge the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators findings. He said he would have had the same difficulty 
getting through to Halifax if he were calling about a covid related matter. His monthly 
payments have changed automatically when he previously made lump sum payments and 
he received acknowledgements to them. He said hes not received a response to his 
complaint from Halifax and the offer of £100 is not enough to make him feel compensated. 
Mr O did not accept our investigators response to these points and so the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To reach my decision Ive thought about whether Halifax should have acknowledged Mr Os 
additional payment and automatically adjusted his contractual monthly payments. Ive also 
considered whether £100 is fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr O by 
Halifax.
Mr O has said that he expected his additional mortgage payment to be acknowledged by 
Halifax. And hes provided a copy of a confirmation letter he was sent for a similar additional 
payment at the beginning of 2020. 
Halifax has provided a copy of its policy  an internal document  stating that it doesnt 
provide confirmation for that type of overpayment unless one is requested. But its clear it did 
so previously and Im satisfied Mr O expected one. From Mr Os submissions to us I also 
accept that he proactively sought confirmation when it wasnt sent automatically. But he 
wasnt able to speak to someone when he tried on the telephone and wrote to Halifax to 
complain. So, I can see he did experience some inconvenience in trying to gain confirmation 
of his additional mortgage payment.
Mr O says his monthly payments changed automatically when he previously made additional 
payments. But Halifax has told us that isnt what happens. It says:
Making an overpayment on a mortgage account does not result in an immediate 
recalculation of the monthly mortgage payment. It will only reduce the balance and 
the interest charged as a result.
Ive thought about whether Mr O may have had access to that information. On checking 
Halifaxs website about additional mortgage payments, I found the following:
If youve got a Halifax mortgage, overpayments wont automatically reduce your 
mortgage term or your monthly mortgage payment, but could save you money by 
reducing the amount of interest charged. When the next monthly payment 
recalculation happens, for example at an interest rate change, the monthly payment 
will be calculated using the existing remaining term of the mortgage.
While I dont doubt Mr Os recollections of what happened with his previous additional 
payments, I cant be sure of the exact circumstances. By that I mean whether they coincided 
with an event that triggers a recalculation or what instructions he may have given previously. 
But Im satisfied that it isnt Halifaxs usual practice to automatically recalculate the 
contractual monthly payment following an additional payment without instruction. So, I dont 
think it has acted unreasonably in this instance by not doing that.
Halifax has provided a copy of its response to the complaint Mr O made on 3 June 2020. 
Halifaxs letter was dated 8 June 2020. The letter confirmed receipt of the additional 
payment, apologised for the inconvenience caused by its phone lines and that Mr Os contractual monthly payment was recalculated from July 2020. I think this was a swift 
response and should have put an end to Mr Os concern, had he received it.
Mr O has said we should demand evidence of postage from Halifax. But I wouldnt expect 
Halifax to send all responses to complaints by recorded delivery. Instead, I would look to see 
if the letter was addressed correctly. The address showing on Halifaxs letter is the same 
one Mr O provided to us when we set up his complaint. So, I dont think Halifax were the 
cause of Mr O not receiving its letter. That means I think that Halifax were only responsible 
for Mr O not receiving confirmation of his additional payment up to the date he should have 
received Halifaxs letter.
Halifax has said to both us and Mr O that its ability to provide its usual service was affected 
by the covid-19 pandemic. It has explained that it had unprecedented levels of calls and 
severe staff shortages. Mr O says that the matter occurred quite a few months into the covid 
situation and that he, his family and friends found that other financial businesses were 
dealing with customers in an acceptable manner. He says its not acceptable for Halifax to 
use covid as an excuse given its size and profits.
I can understand that consumers may not think its fair for businesses such as Halifax to 
continue to blame inefficiencies on the global pandemic months after other entities seem to 
have adjusted. But I also understand that Halifax had to deal with many customers who were 
or were expecting to experience financial difficulty at that time. And Halifax had to close its 
offices and enable its staff to work from home. Our own experience and those weve seen of 
businesses similar to Halifax tell me that this was a huge disruption. And, given that the first 
lockdown started in March 2020 and Mr Os attempts to contact Halifax were in May 2020, I 
dont agree that Halifax had quite a few months to get back to usual customer service 
levels.
Overall, I understand Mr Os frustration at not being able to gain confirmation of his 
overpayment. And that he may have expected to receive this automatically, given his 
previous experiences. But aside from that, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly. And I dont 
think it was responsible for the whole delay in the time Mr O didnt receive confirmation 
because I think it did respond to his complaint promptly. 
Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into consideration and with the aim of being fair to both parties, 
I think £100 is fair redress for Mr Os inconvenience. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) and it should pay him £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman