DRN-3789526
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund her for 
transactions she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
In October 2021, Miss R complained to RBS that the following transactions on her account 
were not authorised by her:
two online payments totalling £65 made on 28 September 2021
five Get Cash transactions totalling £470 made between 30 September 2021 and 
14 October 2021
RBS said it believes Miss R authorised the transactions. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said the evidence suggested the 
transactions were authorised by Miss R as theres no explanation how they could have been 
completed without her consent. 
Miss R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs). The PSRs set out when a customer should be held liable for transactions which 
happen on their account and when they shouldnt. 
The starting position is that a customer is liable for authorised transactions (either by making 
them themself or allowing someone else to) and a bank is liable if theyre unauthorised. And 
where theres a dispute about whether a customer has authorised the transactions or not, 
the bank would be expected to provide evidence as to why theyre holding their customer 
liable.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
The key issue is whether Miss R consented to the payments or to someone else making 
these payments on her behalf. On balance, I think RBS has acted fairly and reasonably in 
concluding Miss R consented to these payments for the following reasons: 
The evidence RBS has provided indicates that the disputed transactions were carried 
out using a mobile banking application registered to Miss Rs mobile phone number. 
The device used for the online payments was registered as a new device on 18 
September 2021. RBS told us, registering a new device is done via online banking 
and the customer number, password and full PIN is required. 
In addition, to set up a new device a one-time passcode (OTP) was sent to Miss Rs 
existing mobile phone number. Miss Rs mobile phone number has been on the 
account since 10 March 2021. Miss R was required to reply to the OTP to authorise 
the new device. 
Miss R told us she hasnt shared her online banking details or any other details with 
anyone. She told us no-one has access to her mobile phone. 
Miss R said she hadnt used online banking for some time. She did explain that she 
had a new phone and her old one was broken. She also says she didnt get any 
texts.
But there is no explanation for how anyone other than Miss R couldve set up this 
new device and then used it to complete the two transfers. 
A balance remained after the two transfers. An opportunistic fraudster would likely 
empty the account. 
RBS told us that setting up Get Cash also requires access to Miss Rs online 
banking. Miss R said these details havent been shared with anyone. Once set up, a 
code was sent to the registered existing mobile number. Miss R confirmed no-one 
has access to her mobile phone. The code is then used to withdraw cash at an ATM. 
Again, there is no explanation for how anyone other than Miss R couldve set up Get 
Cash and withdraw it. 
It seems unlikely that someone would gain access to Miss Rs mobile phone on 
multiple occasions over a two-week period, and return it each time, without her 
noticing. 
For me to be persuaded by what Miss R has said, Id have to be persuaded that a third-party 
to Miss R (either known or unknown) carried out the transactions without her consent. Even 
if I only rely on what Miss R has directly told us, there is no explanation for how someone 
else would have had access to the quantity of secure information or repeated access to Miss 
Rs device. 
Miss R may have been out of the country at the time, but this is not enough to persuade me 
to reach a different conclusion. I only have to reach a conclusion on whether Miss R 
consented to the transactions - which can include someone else doing them with her 
consent (and therefore wouldnt require her presence at the time the transactions were 
completed). 
Reporting the matter to the police doesnt prove that Miss R didnt consent to the 
transactions and I havent seen any evidence from that police investigation that satisfies me 
that Miss R didnt consent to them.
Whilst I acknowledge that there could be an explanation behind each of the points Ive 
discussed above, when they are all taken into consideration together and holistically, I dont believe the more likely explanation is that these transactions were carried out without Miss 
Rs knowledge or consent.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied RBS has acted reasonably in holding Miss R liable for 
the transactions and I wont be asking it to take any further action here.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman