DRN-4344583
The complaint
Miss P has complained about how her claim was handled by Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited under her motor policy following her claim for damage to her car after an accident. 
What happened
The named driver on Miss Ps policy was driving her car when another driver allegedly 
caused the accident which in turn caused damage to Miss Ps car. So, Miss P made a claim 
to Skyfire. 
Skyfire said in an effort to keep her mobile and based on the circumstances of the accident 
including the other driver admitting causing the accident, it passed her to a credit hire 
company. This is a separate entity from Skyfire where the intention is the credit hire 
company will recover the cost of the hire car charges from the other drivers insurers. 
Miss P said she had bought an older car in excellent condition and had spent a considerable 
sum of money maintaining it in the 11 months she had owned it. Given the damage to her 
car plus its age, her car was deemed a total loss. 
Skyfire then paid Miss P the sum of £6,816 as the total loss valuation of her car. Given the 
negotiations were protracted it added interest of 8% simple per year to this sum. 
It also acknowledged Miss P had had a poor claims journey, so it paid her £500 
compensation. 
Miss P remained dissatisfied and raised complaints about the hire car company, the delay in 
sorting out liability, the valuation of her car and the lack of service she received. Skyfire was 
of the view it had done all it needed to do. 
Miss P didnt agree so she brought her complaint to us.
 
The investigator didnt think Skyfire had to do anything more. Miss P didnt agree but other 
than not agreeing with the investigators view, she didnt provide any further details. Her 
complaint was now passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2023, and I said the following:
Miss P has raised several issues throughout her complaint with us, some of which I 
can deal with in this decision and some of which I cant. I cant deal with any new 
complaints which Skyfire hasnt first dealt with, as the investigator explained to Miss 
P. All businesses must have the opportunity to resolve the complaint issue first 
before its brought to us.
 
So essentially there are three parts to Miss Ps complaint that I can look at. The total 
loss value of her car, the liability issues for the accident and in particular the refund of 
her excess, and the credit hire element. Throughout all of these runs varying lack of 
service issues. 
First, Ill explain about the liability issue. Even though the other driver might have 
admitted fault at the scene of the accident, that doesnt mean his motor insurers will 
follow that. Furthermore, motor insurers can also dispute the value of the claim to 
include the total loss value of Miss Ps car, and other associated costs like the hire 
car costs. 
So, unless or until the other drivers insurers both accept liability and/or repay Skyfire 
and the hire car company its costs, the liability aspect of the accident isnt complete. 
Much of that doesnt involve Skyfire frankly, as its down to the other drivers insurers 
to admit liability and agree the costs incurred by Skyfire and Miss P to include the car 
hire charges. More so here as there appears to be no allegations against the named 
driver of Miss Ps car in relation to causing the accident. Therefore, as paying an 
excess isnt an insured item under any motor policy to include Skyfires policy, that 
means Miss P wont be refunded her excess payment until the liability aspect is 
concluded. Thats not something Skyfire can decide on its own, without the 
cooperation of the other drivers insurers. Ultimately if no agreement is reached, then 
the matter gets decided by a court. So, the delay Miss P has experienced in resolving 
liability is fairly standard in such cases involving a road traffic accident and such 
delay here isnt the fault of Skyfire either.  
Theres no evidence to show me that Skyfire has failed to do anything it should have 
done as regards liability. It is maintaining its defence of Miss P and her named driver, 
so it follows that I dont consider the delay in sorting out the liability aspect and 
indeed refunding Miss P the excess payment is Skyfires fault. 
Turning now to the valuation of Miss Ps car. I can see this was somewhat protracted. 
However, whilst I note how much Miss P spent on the maintenance of her car, more 
often than not, such things dont affect the market valuation of the car. Obviously if 
the car is badly maintained the market valuation will be slightly lower, but if it is 
coherently maintained the market valuation is as per the valuation guides in most 
instances. There is no concept of also refunding anyone any additional costs of 
maintenance either, whether thats new tyres or anything else. Skyfires liability under 
the policy terms is to pay Miss P the market value of her car and nothing more. 
I consider the eventual valuation of Miss Ps car to be generous, given the values in 
the valuation guides as detailed in the investigators view. Skyfires policy terms state 
(in line with every other motor insurers policy) that the insurer will not pay more than 
the market value of your car at the time of loss or damage. After Miss P disputed the 
valuation, Skyfire applied a straight-line depreciation. As the investigator explained it 
wasnt obligated to do this and it was to Miss Ps advantage also, given the age of 
her car. Consequently, I consider that Miss P received a much better settlement, and 
more than what Skyfire was required to pay under the terms of the policy.
Lastly turning to Skyfire sending Miss P off to a car hire company. This is classically 
called credit hire and its completely outside the terms and conditions of the policy. It 
tends to occur when its clear the accident wasnt the policyholders or the named 
drivers fault. 
Miss Ps testimony does show she wasnt fully aware she was in a credit hire car 
agreement notwithstanding the agreement she signed with the credit hire company 
which clearly details the credit hire terms at some length. 
This service has little or no jurisdiction to deal with any complaints concerning actions 
of the credit hire car company in the handling of the credit hire agreement. So, I cant 
consider Miss Ps issues with the cars and replacement cars she was given, nor the 
costs involved when she was involved in an accident with one of them. Our stance on what we expect motor insurers to do when they are recommending 
their policyholder to deal with a credit hire company has been established for several 
years now and isnt something new which Skyfire should be well aware of. We expect 
the credit hire referral to be substantially explained to the policyholder with the risks 
and benefits of doing so clearly outlined and discussed. It should also consider the 
circumstances of the incident to assess whether giving the policyholder the option to 
use credit hire is suitable or not. This didnt happen between Miss P and Skyfire 
sadly, as Skyfire cant provide any evidence of what it said to Miss P about going to a 
credit hire company, other than it was to keep her mobile. I dont consider this was 
giving Miss P any information to make an informed choice about whether she wanted 
to go in a separate agreement with a credit hire company which was outside the 
terms of her policy with Skyfire. 
Theres no evidence which Skyfire has shown me that it explained what it was doing 
in keeping Miss P mobile and essentially passing her to a credit hire company. 
Credit hire is outside the terms of the policy and effectively in signing the credit hire 
agreement Miss P ensured the costs of the hire car she was given by the hire car 
company must be repaid in full by the other drivers insurers or Miss P is then 
responsible for those costs instead. So, whilst it did keep Miss P mobile (as Skyfire 
said), it comes with risks to Miss P, which this service considers Skyfire is duty bound 
to explain to her. If Miss P had been told these risks by Skyfire, we dont know if she 
would have still gone ahead with a hire car. Certainly, she was glad of a substitute 
car but Im not sure she would have wanted to take on the risk of being responsible 
for the hire costs given issues Miss P has raised concerning money issues and her 
own ill health.
Given Miss Ps car was always likely to be deemed a total loss, given its age and the 
damage sustained, its clear from the policy terms that she would not have been 
entitled to a courtesy car as her car was not going to be repaired by Skyfire. 
And given the other drivers insurers havent yet settled the case in favour of Miss P 
and her named driver, along with the fact the hire car company told her it was now 
taking the other drivers insurers to court, its likely the risk to Miss P in having to pay 
some or all of the hire car charges remains possible.
 
So, I consider its fair and reasonable that Skyfire should indemnify Miss P in the 
hopefully unlikely event that the costs of her hire car are not met in full by the other 
drivers insurers, or any after the event insurance Miss P may have taken out. I must 
emphasise this indemnity is limited to the costs the hire car company are expecting 
the other drivers insurers to pay. It does not include any other issues Miss P had 
with the hire car company as its too likely those issues are too remote to hold Skyfire 
to account for them. Therefore, if Miss P wants to pursue those issues, then she 
must do so with the car hire company direct.
 
As Miss P hasnt yet been asked to pay any of the car hire charges, she hasnt 
suffered any detriment. And indeed, on the basis of this provisional decision, she is 
now unlikely to suffer any such detriment. So, I consider any possible compensation 
payable here beyond the indemnity to be minimal. Consequently, I consider Skyfire 
should pay Miss P the sum of £100 compensation for this failing in addition to the 
£500 it already paid her for her poor claims journey.
 
I also consider the initial £500 compensation paid to Miss P by Skyfire is fair and 
reasonable for the poor claims service she received. Its in line with our approach and 
would have been the amount I would have required Skyfire to pay, had it not already 
done so.Miss P agreed with my provisional decision. Skyfire didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again Im continuing to uphold this complaint. 
This is because there has been no further information submitted for me to consider changing 
my mind. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following: 
Provide an indemnity for Miss P in the event all the hire costs claimed by the credit 
hire car company against the other drivers insurers isnt paid by the other drivers 
insurers. The indemnity is to be limited to only this risk. 
Pay Miss P a further £100 compensation for Skyfires failure to adequately or at all 
explain the risks of Miss P engaging with a credit hire company.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman