DRN-3069691
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) granted him a 
loan that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr M took out a loan for £3,000 with Everyday Lending. The loan was to be 
repaid over 36 months with the repayments set at £180.46 a month.
Mr M later complained that Everyday Lending lent to him irresponsibly because the loan was 
unaffordable for him. Everyday Lending said it had completed affordability checks which it 
believed were reasonable and proportionate. These showed the loan was sustainable as   
Mr M had disposable income. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said hed told 
Everyday Lending the wage slip he presented when the loan was agreed wasnt a true 
reflection of his monthly salary as hed been doing a lot of overtime.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.
  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mr M before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about his employment and housing costs. It verified Mr Ms income from bank 
statements. It also checked his credit file.
In its affordability calculation Everyday Lending used a figure of £3,201.31 for Mr Ms salary, 
which his bank statements show is the amount he received in April 2017. As our investigator 
has pointed out, the statements show Mr M received a lower amount from his employer in 
March 2017 (£2,721.77).
Everyday Lending says Mr M told it that he was paying £312 a month towards his mortgage. 
It calculated Mr Ms existing creditor repayments to be £837.79. And it used a figure of 
£1,000 for Mr Ms other living expenses. It says it arrived at this figure by using 35% of       
Mr Ms net income with a minimum of £500 and a maximum of £1,000. It says this was 
widely regarded as the national average.
Everyday Lending calculated that Mr M had a monthly disposable income of £871.06 after 
taking into account his consolidated loans and monthly repayments for the Everyday 
Lending loan. The disposable income would have worked out to be £391.52 if Everyday 
Lending had used the lowest salary showing on the bank statements.
 
I think the checks Everyday Lending carried out were proportionate. But it also needed to 
properly consider the information it obtained from the checks to ensure it was making a fair 
lending decision.
 
The bank statements Everyday Lending were provided with at the time of Mr Ms application 
show he was spending more than his salary on gambling transactions. He spent well over 
£11,000 on gambling across the three months the statements cover. I can see that Mr M 
received around £10,000 from the companies hed placed bets with during the same 
timeframe. But there was no guarantee that he would continue to win. Given Mr Ms pattern 
of spending, I think Everyday Lending ought to have concluded that there was a significant 
risk that Mr M would struggle to repay the loan sustainably and that it was not appropriate to 
lend to him. 
Having considered everything Ive seen so far, I dont think Everyday Lending acted 
responsibly when it granted Mr M the loan.
I set out what I intended to direct Everyday Lending to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M said he believed my findings were fair and reasonable and he was happy with my 
provisional decision. Everyday Lending also said it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change them.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, Everyday Lending should:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M made 
as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Lending should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
If reworking Mr Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Everyday Lending should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman