DRN-4246727
The complaint
Mr H complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) delayed payment from his
SIPP (self invested personal pension) which meant he was unable to make a planned
investment. Mr H says Invesco should compensate him for his missed investment
opportunity.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2023. I set out the background to the complaint 
and my provisional findings. Ive repeated those here. 
Mr H had a SIPP with Invesco. TM Trustees Limited were the SIPP trustees. On 7 October
2020 Mr H and two authorised signatories from TM Trustees Limited signed an instruction to
close Mr Hs investment in the Corporate Bond Fund. Invesco received the instruction on 14
October 2020 and processed it the same day. Invesco also acknowledged receipt of the
instruction to TM Trustees Limited and provided a settlement figure of £26,365.10. Invesco
said the payment would normally be made within three business days. But the proceeds of
£26,365.10 werent paid out until 12 March 2021.
On 26 April 2021 Mr H complained to Invesco about the delay. He said hed had specific
plans for the money and hed lost out on a substantial profit hed anticipated making from
reinvesting the money.
Mr H explained that in early October 2020 his broker in the USA had advised him that
investing in Moderna (the Covid vaccine producer) would provide an excellent return. Mr H
agreed to sell another stock and purchase shares in Moderna, to which hed add the funds,
expected in a few days, released by the sale of the Corporate Bond Fund. As that money
wasnt released he had to make a smaller share purchase in Moderna on 20 October 2020.
The cost was just over $72 per share at a total cost of $11,469.48. Mr H made a further
investment in Moderna on 21 January 2021. He bought an additional 335 shares at $122.34
for a total of $40,984.86. On 29 January 2021 he sold all his Moderna shares at a price of
just over $199 per share.
Invesco said they had anti money laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC)
requirements for TM Trustees Limited which had to be satisfied before the sale proceeds
could be released. Invesco acknowledged theyd caused some minor delays and offered £50
compensation for inconvenience caused. Invesco didnt agree they were responsible for the
investment losses Mr H had claimed.
Mr H referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened.
His main findings were:
The AML regulations are important and businesses needed to comply. The
investigator understood why Invesco had to run those checks. But if, in doing that,
Invesco had made errors or caused delay then that would need to be put right.
Given what Invesco had said in its letter to Mr H on 1 April 2021 in response to a
previous complaint, it wasnt clear if AML documentation was required in connection
with encashing the Corporate Bond Fund.
There were two instances where Invesco had already conceded they couldve done
things differently: first, when they requested the trust deed, they shouldve requested
the structure chart at the same time; secondly, once Invesco had all the information
they needed on 4 February 2021, they then took over a month to make payment. But
TM Trustees Ltd had delayed things between 17 December 2020 until 13 January
2021 by in part misunderstanding Invescos request for a structure chart.
The delay actually caused by Invesco was from 28 October to 17 December 2020 
one month and 19 days. And, once all the information was received on 13 January
2021, it had then taken Invesco until 12 March 2021 to pay out which was another
two months delay. Just based on where Invesco had accepted theyd delayed
matters meant a total period of delay of three months and 18 days with some
allowance needed for Invesco to process the new information and the payment.
It wasnt possible to set an exact timeframe as there were too many variables. But a
reasonable estimate could be made. The investigator suggested how Invesco should
work out the date payment shouldve been made. The time between then and the
actual date of payment (12 March 2021) was the period of delay in respect of which
Invesco should compensate Mr H. The investigator set out how Invesco should
calculate Mr Hs loss.
Mr H accepted the investigators suggested outcome. Invesco made some further comments
to which the investigator responded. Invesco then said it wanted to consider the matter
further, especially the position regarding the Moderna shares.
When Invesco reverted to the investigator, Invesco accepted theyd delayed things. An
exemption was made about AML but Invesco couldve done that sooner. Had they acted
correctly, the proceeds couldve been paid out on 27 November 2020 instead of on 12 March
2021 which was a delay of 125 days. Invesco offered interest of £610. Invesco was also
prepared to pay £2,000 for distress and inconvenience so, in total, £2,610.
The investigator explained to Mr H that Invesco had made an offer but it didnt follow the
method the investigator had suggested. Mr H put his own calculations together based on the
investigators suggested methodology and which indicated a loss of £24,678. Mr H accepted
that the timings werent exact and the investigator had estimated the delay caused by
Invesco. Mr H said Invescos latest comments werent new and hed provided evidence to
disprove much of their arguments. He reiterated that his SIPP had been in operation for
many years, Invesco had previously dealt with situations within the SIPP without query, the
bank account had been the same for many years and Invesco had, by its own admission,
caused unnecessary delays.
As agreement hadnt been reached the investigator told Mr H and Invesco that the matter
would be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
When I looked into what had happened, I asked Mr H for some further information, including
if there was any contemporaneous evidence to show, had the money been released
promptly by Invesco, it wouldve been used to purchase Moderna shares. I also asked about 
the timing of the purchases of Moderna stock on 20 October 2020 and 12 January 2021,
where those funds had come from and details of any other sales and purchases around the
same time.
In response Mr H referred to an email hed already produced from his USA broker dated 16
May 2022. The broker had written:
We spoke on October 20th, at which point we agreed to purchase 154 shares of Moderna at
$74.48 for a total of $11,469.48. At that time, we also agreed that we would purchase anadditional $34,000 of [Moderna] shares after you would finalize the released [sic] of
funds from your SIPP Investment with Invesco.
As those funds were not released by Invesco, we were unable to make the additional
investment in [Moderna] as originally planned.
We did purchase an additional 335 share at $122.34 for a total of $40,984.86 few months
later, on 01/12/2021. About two weeks later, on 01/29/2001 we sold both investments for
about $199.10 per share.
Mr H explained that most business was conducted by telephone, usually initiated by a call
from the broker and time was always of the essence  deals were usually agreed and
carried out the same day, as had been the case for the Moderna share purchase on 20
October 2020. Funds were available to make that purchase from the sale of a number of
investments on the same day. Unless new funds were being transferred  which was the
intention here  it was a case of sell to buy to crystallise a gain or dispose of a poorly
performing investment.
Mr H also provided a spreadsheet detailing the investments bought and sold during the
relevant period. He said he hadnt told Invesco the money was needed urgently as he wasnt
aware there was going to be any problem with the funds being released promptly, there not
having been any issues previously. Mr H didnt feel the need to sell other investments earlier
because he didnt anticipate getting money out of the bond was going to be other than
straightforward.
Mr H also told us that on 20 October 2020 the broker advised disposing of the holdings and,
because of the uncertainty in the global markets, purchasing safer stocks. But he said that
Moderna had just announced the development of a Covid vaccination which he thought
might be a worthwhile investment of a riskier type and to help balance the portfolio. He said
there was a window to invest when Moderna stocks wouldnt move much. The broker was
right as Moderna stocks ranged from $67 to $72 over the next few weeks but rose by 23% in
mid November 2020 and by 11 December 2020 stood at more than $150. Later in December
2020 the broker felt that the heat in Moderna shares had dissipated somewhat. He looked
for an opportunity and the next purchase at $119 was made on 12 January 2021.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As to whether Invesco did anything wrong, it took a very long time for the proceeds from the
disinvestment of the Corporate Bond Fund to be released. Mr Hs and the trustees
instruction was received by Invesco on 14 October 2020 but the money wasnt paid out until
12 March 2021, some five months later.
Invesco now accepts there was a delay on their part. Invesco says the money shouldve
been paid out on 27 November 2020. Mr Hs own loss calculations, based on what the
investigator suggested, give a slightly earlier date, 18 November 2020. I think Mr H has 
assumed a month, as suggested by the investigator, for receipt of the AML documentation.
But, as the investigator noted, Invesco would also need time to consider that and process
the payment. And I think Mr H accepts what the investigator said about the timings being
estimates only and not exact. On balance I dont think the date suggested by Invesco  just
over six weeks  is unreasonable. That would mean the proceeds of the Corporate Bond
Fund shouldve been released and available to Mr H for reinvestment on 27 November 2020.
I can understand why Mr H disagrees with what Invesco has said about not offering redress
for missed investment opportunities. We award compensation for financial loss aimed atputting the consumer back in the position theyd be in if everything had gone as it shouldve
done. If were satisfied that, but for a firms errors or delays, money wouldve been released
earlier, well award compensation for any financial loss thats been suffered in consequence
of the consumer not having had the use of that money.
In that sort of situation, where someone has been kept out of their money, we might say
interest (usually at 8% pa simple) should be paid. But that wont always be appropriate if the
investment is held in a pension arrangement and the money cant be withdrawn. In that sort
of situation wed look at where the money wouldve been reinvested and what sort of return it
is likely to have generated. Often it will be difficult to say exactly what the consumer wouldve
done. Where, as here, the money was part of a SIPP portfolio, we might look at the overall
return achieved by the SIPP during the period in question. Or we might use a benchmark or
index commensurate with the investors circumstances, including their attitude to risk.
But sometimes an investor will say that theyd have made a particular investment and so
well consider if redress should be based on that. We dont look at things with the benefit of
hindsight. We need to assess whats likely to have happened at the time. Where theres any
dispute, we reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what we consider is
likely to have happened, based on all the available evidence and information and taking into
account the context and wider circumstances.
Theres sometimes contemporaneous written evidence which makes it clear what was
intended to happen. In a case such as Mr Hs that might be an email dialogue which dates
back to October 2020 between Mr H and his broker confirming that Mr H was in the process
of encashing another investment, the proceeds of which would be used to purchase
Moderna shares but in the meantime hed be buying a smaller number of shares.
But here Mr H has said that business was conducted mostly by telephone and usually on the
basis that whatever was decided would be implemented on the same day. So theres no
email chain or other contemporaneous evidence. But Mr Hs broker has provided a
statement confirming what he understood Mr Hs plans at the time were  to buy an
additional $34,000 of Moderna shares once the release of funds from Mr Hs SIPP had been
finalised. So I accept that, as things stood on 20 October 2020, Mr H had plans to use the
money from the Corporate Bond Fund, which he expected to be released at any time, to buy
more Moderna shares.
As Ive said, if Invesco had dealt with things as they shouldve done, the money wouldnt
have been released until 27 November 2020. So I need to consider what Mr H is likely to
have done if the money had been available then.
By late November 2020 the initial window of investment opportunity had passed and Mr Hs
views about investing more money in Moderna shares may have changed. When his first
investment was made the share price was $74.48. Mr H has said that the price ranged from
$67 to $72 over the next few weeks but had risen by 23% in mid November 2020 and by 11
December 2020 stood at more than $150. Against that background, Im not sure, if the
money had been available by towards the end of November 2020, that Mr H wouldve gone 
ahead with a further investment then. Mr H did buy more Moderna shares on 12 January
2021 but the price by then was around $120 which Mr H may have considered a more
attractive position, hence his decision to invest further.
But, and even if Im wrong about that, we also look at the wider circumstances, which would
include considering if Mr H couldve mitigated his position  that is if, despite any failings on
Invescos part, he couldve taken other steps to make sure he didnt lose out.
Mr H had lodged a request to encash his holding in the Corporate Bond Fund on 7 October2020. Given what hes said about similar requests having been dealt with promptly in the
past, Mr H mightve expected to be in receipt of the proceeds by the time his conversation
with the broker took place on 20 October 2020. But that wasnt the case. The Moderna stock
was one of five purchases Mr H made on 20 October 2020, all of which were funded by the
sale of twelve other holdings. The total proceeds of sale were $113,977.75 with the five
purchases on the same day costing $114,466.85. The sum invested in Moderna was the
smallest  $11,469.48  less than half of the amounts invested in the other four stocks.
If Mr H had thought his brokers instincts about how well the Moderna shares would do were
right and that there was probably only a short window to invest before the stock would start
to increase in price, the other investments Mr H made on the same day couldve been
adjusted. The sales raised sufficient funds for Mr H to be able to invest on 20 October 2020
the full amount in Moderna he was planning. He couldve topped up his other investments
later once the proceeds of the Corporate Bond Fund were available. Doing things that way
round wouldve allowed Mr H to take full advantage of the brokers tip about the Moderna
shares.
The fact that Mr H didnt do that might also suggest he was more comfortable with the
smaller sum he was investing in Moderna. Hes explained that his brokers advice was to
move to less risky stocks and that the Moderna shares were included as an element of
balance. Investing a smaller amount in Moderna than he did in the other stocks tends to
suggest Mr H wanted to limit his exposure. And that he was happy to adopt a wait and see
approach before deciding whether to invest more.
And, although Mr H has said he didnt chase Invesco as throughout he was expecting the
money to be released any day, the fact of the matter is that hed requested the money in
October 2020 and it wasnt forthcoming until March 2021, some five months later. I think
during that period and if Mr H had wanted the money to make a specific purchase he
shouldve made that clear to Invesco and that hed hold Invesco responsible for any losses
he sustained as a result of being unable to invest at the time.
Mr H did later buy more Moderna shares  he bought an additional 335 shares at $122.34
costing in total $40,984.86 on 12 January 2021. The proceeds of the Corporate Bond Fund
still werent to hand but Mr H was able to make a further purchase anyway. I think that
indicates he was in a position, if he wanted to buy more shares in Moderna at any stage, to
do so and he wasnt dependent on the release of the money from the Corporate Bond Fund.
All in all I think its difficult to say Invesco should be responsible for Mr H being unable to
purchase as much Moderna stock as he wanted on 20 October 2020. As Ive said the
money wouldnt have been released from the Corporate Bond Fund anyway until 27
November 2020. Given the change in the share price I cant say that Mr H wouldve bought
more shares in Moderna then anyway. Further and in any event, Mr H had sufficient funds to
buy the full amount of Moderna shares from the outset. And he later made a further
investment which he couldve done earlier.
Although Im unable to say redress is due on the basis that he was unable to invest further in
Moderna, I do think Mr H has lost out more generally as he was unable to invest the money
 £26,365.10  from 27 November 2020 to 12 March 2021.
I think a benchmark should be used to calculate Mr Hs losses. It seems that at the time his
overall strategy was derisking with a relatively modest investment in Moderna to add some
balance and maintain some potential for growth. On the basis he was prepared to take some
risk I think redress should be based on the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return
index. This index is a set of calculations that demonstrates performance of various asset
classes. Its diverse, transparent, industry used and adjusted quarterly. But by using this, Imnot saying Mr H wouldve invested into a stock market tracker fund  Im just saying its the
sort of return hed have got with some risk to his money. I think its fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this case.
I went on to set out the steps Invesco needed to take to put things right. 
Invesco confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and it provided redress 
calculations. Invesco asked us to confirm we were happy with the calculations and set out 
some further information needed. 
Mr H was very unhappy with my provisional decision. He made detailed comments. Ive 
summarised his main points: 
 
Through no fault of his own he was left in a position where he was unable to make an 
intended purchase of Moderna shares, resulting in a loss of profit of around £40,000. 
He failed to understand why I hadnt accepted the situation in its entirety unless it 
was suggested that he or his broker hadnt been truthful. 
Hed had discussions with his broker on 20 October 2020. It was agreed to sell all the 
holdings in his SIPP and purchase other stocks, including some Moderna shares, 
and make an additional purchase in Moderna as soon as the funds were released. 
The expectation was that the proceeds of the Corporate Bond Fund would be 
released on 20 October 2020 or within a few days of that as advised by Invesco. At 
the time there was no reason to believe the funds wouldnt be released accordingly.
Invesco had ignored the investigators request to produce a timetable and calculation 
and Mr H had to do that himself. Hed accepted the investigators suggested 
timescale in an effort to compromise and as an exact dateline to a certain day would 
be difficult to work out. His calculations were fair and reasonable and included a few 
days for Invesco to make the necessary arrangements. 
Invesco had come up with the date of 27 November 2020 when the Moderna share 
price jumped to $121.76, an increase of 22% (compared with the average price for 
the preceding week or so). 
It wasnt correct to say that he may not have purchased more shares on 27 
November 2020. First, he disputed that was the correct date to use. Secondly, hed 
purchased more shares on 12 January 2021 when the price was $119.25 (not 
$122.34 as his broker had said) so there can be little question hed have purchased 
more shares (to the value of £34,000 as agreed with his broker). Hed accepted that 
TM Trustees Limited were responsible for some of the delay and hed reduced his 
claim to about £24,000.
He was disappointed with my comments that he couldve bought more Moderna 
shares on 20 October 2020 by adjusting the amounts he invested in other stocks. His 
broker had suggested buying the other shares on 20 October 2020 because he felt it 
prudent to do so before those shares increased in price as market sentiment was 
moving towards safer stocks. It wasnt fair to use hindsight. And it wasnt the case 
that he was happy to adopt a wait and see approach. 
Saying he shouldve made it clear to Invesco that hed hold them responsible for any 
losses ignored two salient facts: all contact with Invesco had to be through TM 
Trustees Limited and it was only at the end of the process that he was in a position to 
contact Invesco direct. TM Trustees Limited were continually chasing Invesco and 
keeping him informed. There was never a situation where he didnt expect the funds 
to be released imminently and so he wasnt in a position to intervene directly. 
Saying he couldve bought more shares in Moderna assumes hed ignore his brokers 
advice. Hed have had to sell other investments to buy Moderna shares. When he 
bought the further shares on 12 January 2021 that was on his brokers advice and he 
had to sell other shares to do so, again on the advice of his broker. His intention to buy shares as soon as possible after 20 October 2020 was well 
documented and depended entirely on the release of funds by Invesco which didnt 
happen. He didnt agree with the findings Id reached, which dismissed the fact that 
his plans were already in place. 
What Id said about putting things right seemed unnecessarily complicated. He was 
also concerned that any payment into his SIPP might fall foul of annual amounts that 
could be paid in when he had no earned income. A payment made directly to him 
shouldnt be subject to deduction of income tax and was likely to be treated as a 
capital gain.  
He failed to understand why investigators are employed when an ombudsman 
destroys all the work he and the investigator had done by arriving at a diametrically 
opposed conclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is clearly extremely unhappy with my provisional decision. Ive considered very 
carefully all Mr H has said. But I havent been persuaded to alter my decision. Although Ive 
read and considered all Mr Hs comments Im only going to respond to what I see as key. 
Given that my views havent really changed, I appreciate that Mr H will remain very 
dissatisfied.
Id first make some general observations. Ours is a two stage process. Where a complaint 
cant be settled by the investigator, its referred to an ombudsman who reviews the case in 
its entirety and comes to their own conclusions as to what the outcome should be. In many 
cases the ombudsman will agree with the approach taken by the investigator. But not 
always. If the ombudsmans view is different to what the investigator has said, the 
ombudsman will usually issue a provisional decision setting out their views. 
Mr H may regard the investigators involvement (and I note Mr H is appreciative of the efforts 
made by the investigator) as wasted, along with the time Mr H spent working with the 
investigator to come to an outcome. But, while we try to resolve cases without referral to an 
ombudsman, that isnt always possible. Where theres a change in outcome following a 
referral to an ombudsman, thats likely to be particularly disappointing for the party whose 
complaint had previously been upheld by the investigator. But the nature of our work is such 
that one party is likely to be disappointed, whether thats at investigator or ombudsman level. 
Further, in a case such as this where something has gone wrong but the extent of the failing 
and its consequences arent agreed, theres likely to be room for disagreement. Mr H has 
referred to not having a crystal ball and not being a mind reader. To some extent I can 
understand his sentiments in that its never going to be possible to say definitively what 
shouldve and wouldve happened. In deciding those issues it may seem like Im making 
assumptions but I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities, taking into account all 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Turning now to the complaint itself, Mr H points out that the date, 27 November 2020, when 
Invesco has said the proceeds of the Corporate Bond Fund shouldve been available, 
coincides with a significant increase to the Moderna share price. I note all Mr H says about 
why he was prepared to work with the investigators estimated timescale and why he 
considers his own calculations were fair and reasonable, especially as exact timings arent 
possible. But Invesco (even if it had initially declined to provide a timescale) explained why 
that date had been selected. Essentially, although verification documents were required, 
Invesco accepted that the referral to the AML team couldve been made earlier, on receipt of the Trust Deed on 27 November 2020. I thought that was reasonable, hence I was prepared 
to adopt that date. Ive revisited that and I still think its fair and reasonable. So, in 
considering what Mr H likely wouldve done, thats the date Ive used. 
I agree that the situation which arose wasnt of Mr Hs making. But I dont think the position 
is as clear cut as Mr H suggests. It isnt the case that I dont think he or his broker are being 
truthful. But it wont always be fair and reasonable to decide a complaint on the basis of what 
a consumer (or a business) says, after the event, wouldve happened and without examining 
the wider circumstances. Especially where, as here, theres no contemporaneous evidence. 
In saying that I know weve got the brokers evidence, and I dont discount that, but 
contemporaneous evidence like I mentioned in my provisional findings does carry significant 
weight. And looking at the wider situation may involve considering whether, even though a 
business may have clearly been at fault, the consumer couldve taken steps to address the 
problem and mitigate any losses. 
I accept that Mr Hs expectation was that the money would be available on 20 October 2020 
or shortly afterwards. Mr H has explained in some detail why all of the holdings he held in his 
SIPP were sold on that date and new stocks bought, including some Moderna shares. I 
accept Mr H was acting then (and throughout) on the advice of his broker whod advised a 
move to what were perceived as safer stocks, the price of which the broker thought would 
increase. Id said that Mr H couldve purchased the full amount of Moderna shares on 20 
October 2020 by adjusting the amounts he invested in other stock. But I accept that wasnt 
what Mr Hs broker was advising. It seems the broker felt there was a window of opportunity 
to invest in Moderna which meant more shares could be bought once the proceeds of the 
Corporate Bond Fund were released. I also accept that the further purchase of Moderna 
shares in January 2021 was made on Mr Hs brokers advice. 
But, all that said, the funds didnt materialise within Mr Hs expected timeframe  that is 
within a few days of 20 October 2020. In that situation and, if Mr H and his broker had 
thought the window of opportunity for buying Moderna shares was closing, Id still expect to 
see some steps to try to address the delay. Such as contacting Invesco  whether direct or 
through TM Trustees Limited  to make it clear that the funds were urgently required. I dont 
think its entirely fair and reasonable for Mr H to have relied on the trustees continuing 
efforts and not flagged up, whether direct or via the trustees, that the money was urgently 
needed for a specific purchase. And I dont really see that Mr H was precluded from 
contacting Invesco direct, particularly in a situation where TM Trustees Limited didnt seem 
to be making any headway. 
As the days and weeks went by, Mr H didnt get the money. Hed have known he was 
missing out on an investment opportunity. I understand that he wouldnt have acted other 
than on advice from his broker. But, when the money earmarked for the purchase of more 
Moderna shares wasnt released promptly and knowing that the investment window was 
closing, I dont think its unreasonable to say Mr H couldve reverted to his broker to see 
what could be done instead. That might involve selling other stocks if the brokers advice 
remained that buying more Moderna shares was a priority. So, although I accept what Mr H 
has said about his plans being formulated on the advice of his broker and relying on the 
timely release of funds by Invesco, when that didnt happen, it was up to Mr H to try to deal 
with that. Mr H may regard that as unfair when the problem wasnt of his making. But, as Ive 
said, even where a business has clearly been at fault, wed usually expect a consumer to try 
to mitigate their position. Thats fair and reasonable and consistent with the legal position.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say Invesco is responsible for the loss Mr H 
has claimed. But Invesco did delay in paying out the proceeds of the Corporate Bond Fund 
and so needs to redress Mr H for any lost investment growth during the period of delay. I note Mr Hs comments about the redress I suggested. Compensation involving a pension 
can be complicated, largely because of the tax considerations. But compensation isnt 
treated as a capital gain. I think Mr Hs concern about any payment into the SIPP is that he 
hasnt got any relevant earnings (broadly defined as earnings from employment or self 
employment in the UK) so the maximum tax relievable amount hed be able to contribute is 
£3,600 pa. But the redress set out in my provisional decision allowed for the possibility, if 
payment into the SIPP conflicted with any existing protection or allowance, for a payment 
direct to Mr H. 
As Ive mentioned above, Invesco has supplied loss calculations and asked us to confirm 
theyre correct. But we dont usually check redress calculations at this stage. It will be up to 
Invesco, if Mr H accepts my final decision, to ensure that redress is calculated and paid as 
Ive set out. 
But there are a couple of points Id make. Id said Invesco should pay the £2,610 offered if 
that was higher than the redress calculated using the methodology I set out. Invesco says 
that is the case. If thats right, then I think a cash payment direct to Mr H of £2,610 would be 
the easiest option. Invesco isnt (and correctly in my view) seeking to reduce the portion paid 
into the SIPP to reflect tax relief and will still pay £2,610 in total. But further details will be 
required from Mr H (as to his tax paying status) as well as from TM Trustees Limited, 
including verification details. If the payment is made direct to Mr H, if he wants to accept it, 
hell just need to confirm to Invesco that the bank details it already holds for him are correct.
 
And, when Invesco made its offer, although £606.76 was for interest and £2,000 for distress 
and inconvenience (rounded up in total to £2,610), Invesco simply said, if Mr H accepted it, 
Invesco would arrange for it to be paid. There was no indication that separate payments into 
the SIPP and to Mr H would be made. So, although I understand why Invesco has followed 
the same approach as the methodology I set out, I think, especially as Mr H has expressed 
concern about the annual allowance, that a cash payment to Mr H would be easiest.   
Putting things right
Ive repeated here the redress I set out in my provisional decision but my above comments 
should be borne in mind. 
To compensate Mr H fairly Invesco Fund Managers Limited should:
Work out what the sum of £26,365.10 wouldve been worth on 12 March 2021 if it
had achieved a return equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total
Return index between 27 November 2020 and 12 March 2021. The difference
represents Mr Hs loss, if any, as at 12 March 2021. To bring that up to date the 
same benchmark should be applied to the loss from 12 March 2021 to the date of
settlement.
The compensation should be paid into Mr Hs SIPP, to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid
into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Hs SIPP, it should be paid direct to Mr H.
But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a taxable income.
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax
that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think its reasonable to assumethat Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H wouldve been able to take a tax free
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in
an overall reduction of 15%. If either party disagrees about my assumption that Mr H
is likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement they should say so in response to
this provisional decision.
In addition, Invesco Fund Managers Limited should pay Mr H £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of Invesco Fund Managers Limiteds 
poor handling of the matter. I know that Invesco Fund Managers Limited offered 
£2,000 for distress and inconvenience but that was on the basis that Invesco Fund 
Managers Limited was only prepared to offer interest of £610 whereas Ive made an 
award for investment losses from 27 November 2020 up to date. In the event that 
redress calculated on the basis Ive set out works out less than £2,610, Invesco Fund 
Managers Limited should pay the higher amount.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Invesco Fund Managers Limited must redress Mr H as Ive set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman