DRN-3237947
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the amount Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited offered 
him to settle a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T owned a van which had been converted for use as a minibus. He damaged its drivers 
side in an accident. Mr T thought that, as the van had a specialist finish and parts it would be 
a total loss. Markerstudy felt the van was repairable. But it said that, owing to the specialist 
finish required, none of its approved repairers could complete the job. It also noted that the 
van had some pre-existing corrosion to some of the parts requiring repair. So it offered Mr T 
a cash-in-lieu (CIL) settlement of £3,180  exclusive of VAT, which it said it would pay once 
Mr T gave it a VAT receipt  for him to have the work done himself. 
Mr T said he couldn't get the work done for that sum. He provided an estimate from a 
body-shop which could complete the work. The estimate for that work  before VAT  was 
£9,020. Markerstudy noted that Mr Ts body-shop had quoted for a respray of the full van 
and not just the damaged panels. It asked Mr T to get another quote from his body-shop. 
The revised quote was for £5,955 before VAT but that didnt include all the work required to 
repair the van.
Markerstudys engineers reviewed the estimates again. It noted that the revised estimate 
from Mr Ts body-shop still referred to having parts removed and repainted which weren't 
damaged in the accident. So it didnt accept the revised estimate. But it acknowledged that 
the requirement for a specialist finish would increase the costs of the repairs. On that basis it 
increased its CIL offer to £5,500 before VAT. 
Mr T still didn't think that sum was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She didn't think Markerstudy needed to do anything else. Mr T 
didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Markerstudy to take any further action.
Mr Ts policy says that if his van was damaged in an accident then Markerstudy could decide 
whether to arrange repairs itself at one of its approved repairers or otherwise pay Mr T an 
amount equivalent to the damage. In this case, as Mr Ts van required a specialist finish and 
it had some pre-existing corrosion, Markerstudy decided to settle the claim on a CIL basis. 
It might help if I explain that Mr Ts policy will only cover repairs to the damage caused in the 
accident. So the policy won't pay for repairs or painting of any panels not damaged in the 
incident leading to the claim. Similarly, the policy wouldn't cover the costs of repairing the 
existing corrosion. And if Markerstudys repairer didnt think they could repair some of the 
parts, because of the existing corrosion, and they required replacing instead, then 
Markerstudy might have chosen to settle the claim on a CIL basis anyway regardless of the 
specialist finish. It would then be Mr Ts choice whether to have the corrosion repaired.
Mr T initially felt that Markerstudy should have considered his van to be a total loss. But 
insurers like Markerstudy will usually only consider a vehicle to be a total loss where its 
either so badly damaged that it can't be safely repaired or the insurer considers that its 
beyond economical repair. Theres no specific threshold for insurers to decide whether a 
vehicle is beyond economical repair and insurers can make that decision themselves. And 
its clear that in this case Markerstudy was satisfied that the van could be repaired 
economically. 
Mr T said his van had a pre-accident value of around £20,000. And the highest estimate for 
repair, provided by Mr Ts body-shop and after VAT had been added was around 54% of that 
sum. So I think it was reasonable for Markerstudy to decide that the van was economical to 
repair.
Further Markerstudy asked one of its approved repairers (the repairer) to assess the van. 
The repairer said that the cost to repair the van was around £3,180 before VAT. While that 
was without the specialist finish that figure would indicate that the van was economical to 
repair.
Mr T said he couldn't have the work done for anything like that sum and provided his 
body-shops estimate of £9,020 before VAT. But its notable that estimate included a respray 
of the entire van. So that included all the vans panels and its roof. But it was only the panels 
on the drivers side of the van that were damaged. So I wouldnt have expected Markerstudy 
to pay to repaint the entire van. Instead it would be fair for it to cover the costs to repaint the 
damaged panels and to blend that paintwork to match the rest of the van. Mr Ts body-shop 
then provided a revised estimate that didnt involve repainting the entire van. And while 
some of the figures on the second estimate reduced by either 33% or 50% some other 
figures, most notably for the labour costs to paint the van remained the same as before. But 
if the body-shop was only quoting for the panels damaged in the accident and some 
blending that figure should have reduced, but it didnt. So I don't find the body-shops 
estimate reliable. 
Mr Ts said that he wouldnt be able to have the work done for the preferential rates that 
Markerstudys approved repairer offered to it. I agree that Markerstudy would most likely 
have access to preferential rates and discounts that wouldn't be available to Mr T. So 
I thought very carefully about whether its final CIL offer of £5,500 was fair. 
In considering this I looked very carefully at the estimates initially provided to Markerstudy by 
its approved repairer. And when doing so I substituted Mr Ts body-shops hourly labour rate 
for the approved repairers hourly rate. I also removed any other discounts the approved 
repairer could offer to Markerstudy but which Mr T was unlikely to receive. That way the 
estimate would be more reflective of the likely costs to Mr T to repair and paint the parts of 
the van damaged in the accident. The revised estimated total came to around £4,675 (before 
VAT), which is still somewhat less than Markerstudys CIL offer to Mr T. And as such I'm 
satisfied that Markerstudys CIL settlement was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman