DRN-3092758
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about advice given to him in 1992 by National Westminster Insurance
Services Limited, now part of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, to invest in a personal 
pension with all his contributions invested in a with-profits fund. 
What happened
Mr E complained through his representative in August 2020 who said, in summary:
Mr E was 31 when the pension commenced. He had little experience or knowledge of 
pensions or investments. He accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
The adviser had obligations under the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation) rules. These included giving the investor all relevant 
information and using best endeavours to enable them to understand the nature of 
any risks involved and to have regard to any rights the investor may have under an 
occupational pension scheme. The adviser also had common law duties, including to 
act with reasonable skill and care and to disclose all risks and alternatives to allow 
informed consent.
The representatives view was that investment costs are the most reliable predictor of 
future returns  lower costs mean higher returns. Even seemingly small unnecessary 
costs can compound into significant long term financial detriment. And there was no 
reliable way to select, in advance, high cost funds that would deliver better returns 
than lower cost alternatives. Choosing a higher cost, actively managed fund over, 
say, a low-cost index exposed the client to an increased risk of a relatively poor 
return  only a small proportion of fund managers can deliver sufficient out 
performance to make up for the extra costs and those fund managers cant be 
identified in advance. 
A financial adviser, acting with reasonable skill and care, had a duty not to expose a 
client to unnecessary fund costs and to give due consideration to low-cost funds and 
their advantages. And to ensure the client has been made fully aware of those 
advantages and the risks of choosing higher cost alternatives. 
The client must be informed of all the costs they will be paying. If possible, costs 
should be avoided altogether (particularly if the alternative comes with guarantees 
and/or protection against inflation) or at least kept to a minimum. 
Specifically Mr Es complaint was: 
All of his contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed 
fund. That was unsuitable as it meant a lack of diversification and an unnecessary 
concentration of risk and costs. There were several funds available  Mr Es 
contributions shouldve been spread across different funds to reduce risk.
Mr E had been exposed to substantial unnecessary fund costs. He hadnt been 
properly informed of the inherent risks of investing in a single fund or of all the 
investment costs associated with the recommendation.
With-profits funds are complex, costly and opaque and are particularly unsuitable for 
very long term pension investments, where the smoothing effect isnt required. 
Theres a clear conflict of interests  the lower the bonuses paid to investors in the 
fund, the higher the profits of the fund provider. 
The return received by Mr E has been very poor when compared to a portfolio of low-
cost funds with an appropriate asset allocation. This must be due to excessive costs 
or poor management, or a combination of the two. Both could, and should, have 
been avoided.
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that the personal pension and 
the with-profits fund was suitable for Mr E. At the time with-profits contracts were performing 
well and were widely used to provide an opportunity for growth in a low risk environment. 
The with-profits fund invested around 80% in a well-diversified portfolio of fixed interest 
securities and holdings of cash and money market instruments with the balance invested in 
UK and international shares and property. Although with-profits had fallen out of favour in 
recent years, it was unreasonable to believe that the same contract, fund and level of 
contribution would remain the most appropriate for Mr E over the twenty six year term to his 
retirement. Hed have been recommended to keep his pension arrangements under regular 
review. The personalised illustration Mr E was given drew his attention to the need to read 
the accompanying product literature which explained the charges in detail. At the time the 
adviser was required to make a single, most suitable recommendation after researching the 
various available options. 
Mr Es complaint was referred to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary he said:
The advice to take out a personal pension was suitable  Mr E was self employed 
and had no access to an employers pension scheme. He was earning £12,000 pa 
and had no existing pension provision. 
Diversification was desirable but the with-profits fund wasnt a non diverse 
investment. The Fund managers aim wouldve been to manage the underlying 
assets so as to deliver consistent investment returns. A well-managed with-profits 
fund could benefit from asset and geographical diversity.
It wasnt clear if the mechanics of a with-profits fund had been discussed, although 
the business had suggested that the smoothing effect of with-profits wouldve been 
discussed. The application form Mr E completed said that with-profits would be 
recommended in most cases which suggested he couldve sought an alternative. 
A preference on the business part to recommend with-profits didnt mean the advice 
must have been unsuitable. At the time with-profits wouldve generally been 
considered suitable for those seeking long term, lower risk, investment. Annual 
bonus rates had delivered consistent, smoothed returns, with the prospect of future 
bonuses. The illustration provided warned that the growth rates shown didnt 
represent the upper or lower limits of possible benefits. And that actual benefits 
would depend on future bonuses. No guarantee as to future bonus rates was given. 
At the time the adviser wasnt required to disclose the cost of advice and the 
illustration that Mr E was given conformed to the regulators requirements at the time. 
When annual bonuses were declared they were net of any underlying charges. At the 
time, the fund wouldnt have been considered to have excessive costs, compared 
with other similar funds available across the market. 
Actions taken by the fund managers and actuaries in setting aside investment 
growth didnt mean the returns available to investors were unfairly restricted. Nor did 
that represent a hidden cost of investment. The principle of with-profits is to achieve 
consistent growth which included setting aside investment returns in good years, 
even if that meant restricting the bonus being declared, in order to maintain bonuses in bad years. Once allocated, regular bonuses couldnt be taken away, as long as 
Mr E drew benefits at his normal retirement date.
The investigator accepted that, in recent years, annual bonuses have been lower 
than expected (sometimes zero) but there was never any guarantee that a bonus 
would be declared every year. The prevailing investment climate in recent years that 
has resulted in lower annual bonuses couldnt have been foreseen in 1992. 
When benefits are drawn from the pension the actuaries calculate entitlement to the 
share of the returns in the applicable underlying with-profit sub-fund. It its 
established that the total of bonuses paid is lower than the value of returns, then a 
final or terminal bonus will be paid. So the full value of the returns in their share in 
the with-profits fund, over the time theyve been invested, will be paid. 
Mr Es representative didnt accept the investigators view. It maintained it hadnt been 
appropriate to invest 100% of Mr Es contributions in a single managed fund and even more 
inappropriate to invest them in a with-profits fund with its inherent conflicts of interest. It said 
it would be extremely unusual for an adviser in 2021 to recommend 100% of a client's 
pension contributions be invested in a single with-profits fund. That would be poor advice 
and inferior to the alternatives  such as diversification between transparent, low-cost funds 
with an appropriate asset allocation. If its bad advice now then it was then too as the 
underlying principles are exactly the same. Even if such advice was common then and for 
reasons such as commission, that doesnt make it right. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons he 
gave for not upholding Mr Es complaint. I dont have much to add. 
Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im considering the complaint on 
the basis of the circumstances, including the advisers obligations, at the time. 
The obligations on an advisor advising on and selling a pension policy werent as stringent in 
1992 as they are now. I note whats been said about common practice at the time not 
necessarily representing good practice. But, although I accept thats a valid point, I dont 
think its fair to apply todays standards to something that happened getting on for thirty 
years ago. 
At the time the adviser was bound by the common law requirements which were not to make 
negligent mis-statements; where information is given, to disclose all material information; 
and, where advice is given, to advise with reasonable care and skill. The adviser was also 
required to act in accordance with the LAUTRO rules. The overriding principle was a 
requirement to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. 
The best advice requirement included giving the investor all relevant information and using 
best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. In 
advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any investment contract, regard 
had to be had, in particular, to the investors financial position generally, to any rights he may have under an OPS. The adviser had to use best endeavours to ensure that only those 
contracts which were suited to that investor were recommended.
I agree that setting up a personal pension was suitable for Mr E. He didnt have access to an 
employers pension scheme and he didnt have any existing pension provision. A need to 
save for retirement had been identified and the premiums were affordable. Mr E maintained 
them from 1992 until 2018.  
Much of what Mr Es representative has said centres on the fact that all of Mr Es 
contributions were invested in a single fund. Given that the advice was given almost thirty 
years ago, I dont think its going to be possible to say now exactly what was discussed and 
what the adviser said about fund choice and any alternatives to the with-profits fund that it 
seems was usually recommended. But one advisers recommendation isnt automatically 
deemed inappropriate simply because another advisor (or, as here, the consumers 
representative) considers that a different recommendation wouldve been more 
appropriate. Whats key is whether the with-profits fund was suitable for Mr E and his 
circumstances at the time.  
Id agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded as 
good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading 
money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one holding 
performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better and so the 
risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that investing in a single fund 
may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself. 
The with-profits fund invested in a spread of assets and was structured to provide bonuses, 
both during periods of good investment performance and when returns werent so good. I 
think it was sufficiently diversified in itself. 
Mr Es representative says that due consideration should be given to low-cost funds. And 
that actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to make up for the higher costs 
with it not being possible to identify, in advance, those managers who will deliver sufficient 
out performance. I think thats somewhat of a generalisation which, taken to its logical 
conclusion, would mean that actively managed funds would never be chosen over lower cost 
funds. Some managed funds can deliver performance that, after fees are paid, beats the 
market, even if research shows that relatively few actually achieve that consistently. 
And although other suitable funds couldve included lower cost index funds, as Ive said the 
test isnt if other funds wouldve been suitable too. Im not persuaded that the with profit fund 
was unsuitable just because index-based funds with lower costs might have been available. 
Or if, with hindsight, Mr Es investment may have performed better had he invested 
differently. 
I think the with-profits fund was a suitable investment for Mr E. It was a long term, lower risk 
investment. I dont think the with-profits fund was too complex for an investor such as Mr E 
to understand. Although wed now expect to see charges clearly detailed in a suitability letter 
(as well as an advisers reasons for recommending a particular fund or funds) that wasnt a 
requirement at the time. I think the costs of the fund wouldve been in line with those charged 
by other providers at the time for similar funds.  More recently with-profits funds havent performed as well as during the 1980s and 1990s 
and annual bonus rates have fallen or been reduced to zero. And with-profits funds have 
attracted criticism for a lack of transparency, making it difficult for investors to be satisfied 
that theyve received what theyre entitled to. But, if Mr E has any concerns about how the 
with-profits fund has been managed, hell need to refer those to the provider.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman