DRN-2714682
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his gadget insurance policy with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr A made a claim as his tablet and laptop computer had been stolen. He 
was living in temporary hostel accommodation and told Assurant he had left his bag 
containing the devices in the television cabinet in the communal sitting-room. Mr A says he 
spent the night with his brothers and when he returned the next day they were missing. Mr A 
says he suspects the other tenants, or someone they knew, took the devices. They told him, 
they may have left the front door open. 
Assurant refused the claim as it says Mr A didnt take reasonable care of his devices, which 
increased the risk of them being stolen.  
Mr A is unhappy with this. He says the devices were normally kept at his fathers property 
but as he was preparing for a job interview, he needed to use his devices. Mr A says he 
collected them from his fathers property and then the night of the theft went to stay with his 
brother. Mr A was living with two other people he didnt know in temporary hostel 
accommodation and he has described the accommodation as a house with a shared sitting- 
room. Mr A says he had his own bedroom but the bedroom locks didnt work properly. He 
therefore says he left them out of sight in the safest place. Mr A says he did everything he 
could to leave his devices safe and it was a targeted theft; he could not have done anything 
else to have prevented the theft from happening
One of our investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld. 
Mr A does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was clearly going through a difficult time and the theft of his devices will undoubtedly 
have added to this. However, I am not persuaded that Assurant acted unfairly in turning 
down his claim and I will explain why. 
The policy Mr A held with Assurant provides that Assurant may not pay a claim where the 
policyholder has not taken care of the insured devices. 
The policy says:
Taking care of your device means  
Not knowingly leaving your gadget somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged, 
just think would you leave your wallet or purse there? 
If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out of 
sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone 
you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
In addition to the specific terms in the policy, it is an implied term in any insurance contract 
that the consumer should take reasonable care of any insured item and act as if theyre 
uninsured.
Mr A was living with people he didnt know in temporary hostel accommodation. From what 
Mr A has said, he clearly understood there was some risk in having valuable items at the 
accommodation he was in. This might also be why he didnt keep his devices there all the 
time. Mr A says he thought it was safer to leave the devices in the cupboard in the sitting-
room, rather than in his bedroom, as he couldnt lock it in there properly. Mr A has said the 
bedroom lock it was not entirely secure. However, I think it is reasonable to think that his 
bedroom, which the other tenants had no right to go into, would have been a better option 
than in a cupboard in a room both of which the other tenants were entitled to enter. While the 
devices were out of sight, they were in an easily accessible place in a communal room and 
therefore much more likely to be seen. 
I acknowledge that the devices could still have been stolen if they were in Mr As bedroom. 
However, I consider it would have been less likely to have happened if they were concealed 
somewhere in the bedroom, even if the door couldnt be locked securely. I think it would 
have been a reasonable assumption that the other tenants, or their visitors, were less likely 
to go in Mr As bedroom as they would have had more chance of being caught if they did. 
Of the options Mr A had, this was not the safest one. Overall therefore, I am not persuaded 
Assurant has acted unreasonably in refusing this claim. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr As situation, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman