DRN-3738360
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
he made under his car insurance policy and cancel his policy. Admiral applied a drink and 
drug clause. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr A was involved in an incident while driving which led to damage to his and 
other vehicles. He was breathalysed by police at the scene and found to be over the limit for 
drink driving and was arrested. 
Mr A said he was taken to hospital where a blood test was taken over three hours after he 
was first breathalysed. Mr A said his blood sample was sent for independent analysis and 
the results showed he was under the prescribed limit for drink driving. Mr A says the police 
investigation is ongoing. Mr A has provided a copy of the blood sample result. 
Admiral applied an exclusion under the policy and said that on the balance of probabilities, 
Mr A was over the prescribed limit of alcohol at the time of the incident. It therefore said it 
wouldnt provide cover for the damage to Mr As car under the policy, but would deal with the 
third-party claims in line with its obligations as the last insurer under the Road Traffic Act . As 
such, Admiral said it would look to recover the costs it paid to third parties for their claims 
from Mr A. It cancelled Mr As policy.
Mr A complained to Admiral. He didnt think it had been clear enough in the policy wording 
about the exclusion and so he thought its decision was unfair. He said Admiral should make 
it clear if it intends to apply a lower threshold for evidence than a court of law. He believes 
Admiral should have relied on the blood sample he provided rather than the initial 
breathalyser test which he says is less reliable. 
Mr A wanted Admiral to cover the claim under the policy. 
Admiral didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said the policy wording was clear. 
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong as it had acted in line with the policy terms. 
Mr A didnt agree and provided a copy of a decision from our website which he says is very 
similar to his circumstances which an ombudsman upheld in 2017. In summary he says it 
was wrong for Admiral to rely on the preliminary test instead of the blood sample test result. 
So Mr A wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the decision Mr A provided and while I agree the circumstances are similar, we look 
at each case on its own merits. 
Mr A says he had been drinking earlier in the day. From his timeline, he was first 
breathalysed at around 10.45pm. The results of Mr As breathalyser test showed a positive 
reading for alcohol of 41 micrograms against a limit of 35 micrograms. 
Results from the blood sample test show they were taken at 2am the following morning - and 
as Mr A told us - over three hours after he was first breathalysed. The result showed Mr As 
blood recorded a positive reading for alcohol at 74mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood against 
a legal limit of 80mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood. 
Mr As policy with Admiral says the following:
11. Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens while any insured person is driving and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be restricted to 
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your 
policy.
Mr A says Admirals policy wording isnt clear enough as it doesnt say its standard of proof 
is lower than that of a court of law. But Admiral says if found to be rather than convicted of 
and so I dont think it has to. I think the policy wording is clear. As an insurer, Admiral can 
decide what risk its prepared to accept when offering cover. And provided its clear in its 
terms and conditions  - which I think it is - an insurer can use evidence provided by a 
policyholder in a wider way to decide whether to provide cover or not. 
In Admirals response to Mr As complaint, it said the blood sample test taken over three 
hours after the breathalyser test taken at the scene would not provide an accurate reading of 
his alcohol consumption at the time of the incident. However, it said the breathalyser test at 
the time of the incident found Mr A to be above the legal limit. I dont find Admirals 
assessment here to be unreasonable.
I think from the information available to Admiral that on the balance of probabilities, Mr A 
was found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol at the time of the incident. And so I think 
Admiral was entitled to reject his claim, cancel his policy and look to recover third party claim 
costs from Mr A, in line with its terms and exclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman