DRN-1696799
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK Bank PLC has recorded her date of birth incorrectly 
which resulted in her making two visits to branch
What happened
Mrs B says she's had problems with telephone banking for some time and failed Barclays 
security question about her date of birth. She says she was told she needed to attend a 
Barclays branch with proof of her date of birth. But she doesn't have any of the documents 
Barclays required such as a driving licence or current passport. Mrs B says Barclays has 
paid her £75 compensation for what took place, but she has been caused stress and would 
like £5,000 compensation.
Barclays says it has a different date of birth on its records but no longer has the original 
account opening forms. It accepts there has been a problem with Mrs B's date of birth 
information for some time and has tried to help her. Barclays accepts it could have amended 
the information sooner as there was only one digit that was incorrect. It's paid £75 
compensation and has offered a further £100 for the inconvenience Mrs B was caused.
Mrs B had already brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought overall Barclays 
total compensation offer was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Barclays had 
accepted it didn't need to ask Mrs B to attend a branch and had accepted its mistake. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer took that into account and didn't think further 
compensation was justified.
Mrs B doesn't accept that view and says she should be awarded far more compensation for 
what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've come to  overall view that Barclays has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer.
There is no question here that Barclays made a mistake by not amending the one incorrect 
digit of Mrs B's date of birth. I accept that Mrs B made two visits to a Barclays branch that 
she didn't need to make, and I accept that Mrs B was unable to continue with her telephone 
banking when she failed the security questions. So I accept Mrs B was caused some 
inconvenience in attending the branch and some frustration in not being able to give 
Barclays the identity documents it wanted.
But I'm satisfied that Barclays has accepted its mistake and paid and offered what I think is a 
fair and reasonable amount of total compensation of £175. I'm satisfied that award fairly 
reflects the level of its mistake and the relatively limited impact its mistake had upon Mrs B. I don't think Mrs B suffered any financial loss apart from the cost of attending a Barclays 
branch twice and I can't see any justification for the amount of compensation Mrs B says is 
appropriate here.
Overall I'm satisfied Barclays further offer of compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable. 
But I will leave it to Mrs B to decide if she wishes to accept it as I appreciate it's significantly 
less than the £5,000 she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of a 
further £100 compensation. Mrs B's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman