Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage with YBS in 1996. They were sold the PPI in connection 
with this mortgage at the same time.
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K and/or 
Mrs K were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome but I will explain why Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr and Mrs K were eligible under the policy. Based on their 
age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs 
K would have been eligible.
YBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs K that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs K say that no real discussion 
took place about the PPI and it was sold to them as something they needed to cover the 
mortgage payments. They had an existing mortgage with YBS at the time and they feel that 
the PPI was just rolled over to cover their new mortgage. They say they didnt know PPI was 
optional when they took our their first mortgage with PPI and so they wouldnt have known 
PPI was optional with regards to this sale. For the sake of clarity, this decision deals solely 
with policy applied to Mr and Mrs Ks account in 1996. 
DRN-1891393Of course I cant know for sure what took place at the time of the sale. So Ive thought about 
everything Mr and Mrs K and YBS have told us and looked to the documents from the time 
of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, YBS have provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form as well as 
with a copy of the PPI application form. In the mortgage application there was a separate 
section for PPI which gave Mr and Mrs K a clear choice as to whether or not they wanted 
further details about PPI. There is nothing in this section which would indicate that PPI was 
compulsory and I note Mr and Mrs K ticked the box for further details. Following this Mr and 
Mrs K completed a separate application form for the PPI. Ive seen a copy of this and note 
Mr and Mrs K made various choices in this application form such as the level of cover and 
the excess period. Again there is nothing to suggest here that PPI was presented as 
something they had to have.
So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs K have told us, including what their thought process 
was because of the previous sale, based on the evidence Ive seen I cant say its more likely 
that YBS didnt present PPI as optional. And its clear that PPI was added with Mr and Mrs 
Ks knowledge and consent. I understand Mrs K believes this wasnt informed consent due 
to lack of advice, but Ive explained below the issue relating to advice/lack of advice.
YBS say they didnt provide Mr and Mrs K with advice in relation to PPI. Mr and Mrs K also 
say they received no advice. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. This is 
an important point as Mr and Mrs K strongly feel that if they had been provided with correct 
advice then it would have been clear that they had no need for PPI and it wasnt suitable in 
their circumstances. 
However, there was no requirement on YBS to provide advice. They conducted there sales 
generally on a non-advised basis at this time. This means YBS didnt have to take steps to 
check the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K. So for example, they didnt need to take into 
account any existing repayment provisions Mr and Mrs K may have held at the time of the 
sale, such as what Mrs K has told us about her very generous employee benefits and their 
savings and they didnt need to take into account what Mr and Mrs K have told us about their 
wider circumstances. Instead it would've been Mr and Mrs K's responsibility to consider their 
circumstances when deciding whether or not to take PPI.
But YBS did have to provide Mr and Mrs K with clear information so that they could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
and Mrs Ks attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible YBS didnt give Mr and Mrs K all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put them off taking PPI. I dont think it would have. This is because:
 
Further information about the benefits would have revealed that the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any employee benefits and savings Mr and Mrs K held at the 
time of the sale. They selected the benefit period themselves in the PPI application 
form so wouldve been aware how long it would have paid out for, what the excess 
period was as well as the amount of benefit payable.
 
Mr and Mrs K dont appear to have been affected by the exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy. And I note Mrs K was able to make a successful claim under the policy for 
unemployment.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out
financially.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think YBS mis-sold Mr and Mrs K this 
PPI policy.
But YBS have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because: 
When the policy was sold, YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more
than 50% of the PPI premium)  so they should have told Mr and Mrs K about that.
Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS have paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society do not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Yorkshire Building Society do have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman