DRN-4476188
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr H bought a solar panel system the system for his home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr H 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr H into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr H signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr H says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr H disagreed. Through his representative he said: 
That the sale was conducted based on verbal representations and our investigator 
had given no consideration to this. 
The consumer wasnt taken through the sales documents. 
The fact that the panels were performing isnt relevant as the complaint is regarding 
the financial benefits received, and these do not cover the cost.
Mr H also reiterated that he was unhappy he received one fewer panel then what the 
original sales was based on, that he didnt feel any affordability checks had been 
carried out. He also felt pressured into buying the system, the facts and figures were 
confusing. He felt the verbal representation lured him into the purchase and, had he 
understood how little benefit he would receive, he wouldnt have purchased the 
system. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision. I understand Mr Hs representative is no longer acting for Mr H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H was provided with the sales documents, and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale as he has signed them. 
Documents signed 13 February 2019
Contract for the sale of the system 
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost of the system. It says Mr H 
would be paying a deposit of £200 and the remaining amount £7,250 would be paid via 
finance. 
The credit agreement 
Mr H also signed the credit agreement on the same day. This shows he would be taking out 
a 10-year loan to fund the purchase of the system. It sets out that the panel costs £7,450, 
that Mr H was paying a deposit of £200, that the amount of credit borrowed was £7,250,   
and the total amount payable was £11,446.78. Mr Hs monhtly payment was £93.72. 
So I think the costs were made clear to Mr H during the sale. 
Estimated returns page 
Mr H was also given a document setting out the estimated returns he could expect from the 
system. This shows that his year one benefit would be between £180.69 and £248.69. His 
Feed in Tariff (FIT) income annually would be £113.19, and the system would generate 
approximately 1766 kWh. 
So, to me it looks like the supplier made it clear what the system cost as well as the benefit 
the system would likely produce. I think its clear that to repay a loan for £7,250 over 10 
years, Mr H would need at least £725.00 per year to meet the repayments under the loan  
and the maximum annual benefit of £248 falls significantly short of that. I also think its 
apparent that 12 payments of £93.72 is significantly more than £248. The estimated benefit 
covers just over two monthly payments  so I think it was very clear that the system wouldnt 
be self-funding. Mr H has signed these documents and also appears to accept these 
documents were given to him during the sale. 
Mr H says he recognised at the time the documents indicated the system wouldnt be self-
funding and he tried to cancel but the sales representative convinced him the above figures 
were worst case scenario and he was persuaded to push ahead with the installation. 
But I dont find that persuasive  I think the shortfall is so significant, and the costs 
substantial that Im not satisfied the supplier could have asserted with any credibility that the 
system would nevertheless be self-funding without an explanation as to how that shortfall 
would be made up. Even if the supplier did assert that the figures were worst case scenario  that means Mr H knew it was possible the system would perform to this degree and went 
ahead with the purchase anyway. 
So, Im not satisfied that theres sufficient evidence here that the system was sold to him on 
the basis that it would be self-funding nor that Mr H relied on any such representations and 
bought the system mainly for that reason. 
Document signed 17 February 2019
I understand on 17 February 2019, Mr H was informed that the supplier couldnt install 8 
panels on his roof as originally agreed, but only 7. Mr H was given an updated estimated 
returns document based only on the 7 panels. This showed Mr Hs system would produce 
around 1,646 kWh in energy annually, and his first-year benefit would be between £168.48 
and £231.42. His FIT payments would be around £105.54. 
Mr H has now raised that while the system was expected to produce less energy, the costs 
were unamended despite this. However, Mr H signed the new estimated returns document, 
was still within his cancelation period and was aware the costs hadnt changed. I can also 
see the difference in performance is marginal. The system performance was still broadly in 
line with the original agreement  and he agreed to go ahead with the installation despite the 
updated figures being given to him and being aware the costs hadnt changed. Mr H also 
signed a satisfaction note after installation.
I would add that Ive looked at how the system has performed since installation. Mr Hs 
representative says that he has received on average around £112.08 per year in FIT 
payments (this is 12 payments of £9.34 as set out in Mr Hs letter of claim). This is more than 
the FIT estimate based on 7 panels and only £1 less than the 8-panel FIT estimate. 
Additionally, as set out in our investigators view, the average power generated is 1,705kWh 
 which is significantly more than the 7 panel estimate and only slightly less than the 8-panel 
estimate (and certainly within a reasonable variance that is generally acceptable for these 
types of cases). 
So overall, while I can see Mr H had one fewer panel installed than originally agreed, Mr H 
was made aware of this at the time, and he agreed to go ahead with the sale being fully 
informed of the variation. The system has also broadly performed in line with the original 
estimate in any event. So, I dont think Omni needs to do anything about this now. 
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to Mr H that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be based on both 7 and 
8 panel system estimates. While Ive carefully considered Mr Hs testimony, I find the 
documents from the time of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was 
likely given at the time of sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is 
unlikely there was a misrepresentation or that there was reliance on any such 
misrepresentations that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Other issues 
I understand Mr H also raised concerns that Omni may not have done sufficient credit 
checks before granting him the loan. As explained by our investigator, Omni said it did 
appropriate affordability checks. This showed Mr H had no missed payments on his credit 
history, and he wasnt over any of his credit limits. And it also seems like Mr H maintained 
his monthly payments after the sale. So, I dont think theres any evidence the loan wasnt 
affordable. Ive also thought about Mr Hs concerns that he was pressured to buy the system. But 
pressure can be subjective, and while I have no doubt that the supplier encouraged him to 
buy the system (thats the nature of selling items), I havent heard enough detail to persuade 
me that undue pressure was applied, especially since Mr H seems to accept, he was aware 
of the cancellation period.  
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act.  A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. Omni has confirmed that it paid no commission to the supplier and, 
considering that I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude 
that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr H 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Omni acted unfairly by declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman