DRN-3877196
The complaint
Ms P complains that she has had no explanation as to what happened some of the 
belongings which were in her property when it was repossessed in by Santander UK Plc in 
September 2019
What happened
Because of arrears on the account, Santander took possession of Ms Ps property on 12 
September 2019. It appointed an outside firm as an asset manager, a firm that Santander 
uses to manage repossessed properties.  At the end of September, the asset manager got 
two quotes from firms for the clearing and cleaning of the property and the notes indicate 
that it accepted the lowest tender for £4,725 plus Vat which is what appears to have been 
charged, in total £5 ,670 on the invoice to Santander dated 12 December 2019. A statement 
to that effect was sent to Ms P on 17 December 2019. 
After Santander appointed the asset manager, the firm replied that Due to the amount of 
chattels access is not possible into some of the rooms so they need to clear prior to the 
valuation taking place. There is a similar note on file dated 15 October 2019 which says, 
The property was a hoarders house so had to be cleared before we could gain access.
On 21 November 2019, Ms P contacted Santander and the lender told Ms P that the 
property had been cleared and items disposed off, but the caller gave Ms P the number for 
its agents and its reference. On 26 November 2019 Ms P asked for the redemption figure 
and was told that all information had been supplied to a Mr M who had a letter of authority 
from her to allow Santander to speak to him. The indication from that call was that the 
mortgage would be redeemed in about ten days. 
The mortgage was redeemed on 7 December 2019. There is a note on file dated 10 
December 2019 that Ms P was looking a breakdown of the costs and notes that some 
possessions were removed but not all. At that stage Santander directed Ms P to its agents 
for an explanation of what was taken and why. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as he felt that Santander hadnt done anything wrong. Ms P 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a case where the property was repossessed in September 2019 because I 
understand of arrears on the account, but the mortgage was then redeemed in December 
2019 and the property was returned to Ms P. In the meantime, Santander got the property 
ready for sale. The lender would be expected to do that as a quick sale generally benefits 
both parties. I see it got an initial report from its agents, got quotes from agents to clean and 
clear the property and went with the cheapest quote. I cant criticise Santander for that and 
for paying the agreed invoice price of £5,670. I also note that Santander, under the terms of 
the mortgage that it agreed with Ms P, was able to do that. The terms and conditions of the 
mortgage say at Clause 13 On or after taking possession of the Property the Society may, 
as agent of the borrower and at his expense remove, store sell or otherwise deal with any 
furniture or goods, which the borrower shall fail or refuse to remove, and the Society shall 
not be liable for any loss or damage thus occasioned to the Borrower.
At the heart of this complaint is what happened to the contents of the property. 
Unfortunately, I cant tell Ms P that. It would be useful if someone had kept an inventory of 
what was removed but I recognise that if this was a hoarders property, as Santander was 
told, an inventory of all things in the property could only be compiled at great expense and 
that expense would fall on Ms P. So, given what it was told I wouldnt criticise Santander for 
not requiring an inventory and not increasing the cost to Ms P.
Santanders response to Ms Ps enquiries about the whereabouts of the contents of the 
property, at the time Ms P initially enquired, was to tell Ms P that the property had been 
cleared and items disposed off. But Santander says it also gave Ms P the number for its 
agents and its reference. Ms P says that Santander only told her that the property was 
disposed off. But Santander has a note of this conversation confirming what Ms P was told. I 
also think it likely that Santander would want to pass on that information and direct Ms P to 
the people who were clearing the property as it wasnt directly involved in that  That was in 
November 2019 and had Ms P acted on that at the time, it would have put Ms P in direct 
contact with the agents clearing the property and would likely have allowed her to retrieve 
any property she required. But Ms P didnt do that. I cant see any note of her making any 
further enquiry about this from December 2019 until October 2020. I note that Ms P wrote to 
Santander after returning to the property on 21 December 2019, which is a query about the 
invoices, but no mention is made then about items missing that she wanted retained. It 
strikes me that if Ms P was concerned about removed items that would be exactly the time 
that shed want to know about them.
Ms P did raise queries about the invoice and the removal of Santanders charge after 
redemption but not about her belongings in the property. In respect of the removal of the 
charge I believe that Santander explained how it dealt with this in its letter of 23 September 
2020 and I require it to take no further action in respect of that. I regard the amount of 
compensation it paid then as appropriate. As regards the invoice from the cleaning and 
clearing company, Im satisfied that Santander paid the amount quoted which was the 
cheapest quote it had, and I wouldnt require it to provide any further breakdown of the 
invoice.  From Santanders point of view, it had already dealt with the issue of how Ms P 
could recover her belongings at the end of 2019, directing Ms P to its agents. It had heard 
nothing back from her until almost a year later that there were any difficulties doing so and 
the assumption would no doubt have been that Ms P had her query satisfactorily dealt with 
by the repossession agents. 
My view is that the contract that Ms P had with Santander allowed it to dispose of the 
contents of the property and that if Ms P wanted to retain any of the contents she should 
have done it at the time when Santander gave her the contact details of its agent, but Ms P 
didnt take the opportunity. I note that Ms P makes no complaint about any difficulties 
communicating with the agents, so I assume she didnt act on that information at the time but 
thats not Santanders fault. For the reasons stated I dont expect Santander to have kept an 
inventory so I cant say that Santander is at fault if Ms P is unable to locate any of her 
belongings that were in the property. This is a complaint about the actions of Santander, and 
I dont consider it did anything wrong and for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman