DRN-2519546
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that an international payment it made from its account at
Starling Bank Limited did not reach the beneficiary.
What happened
G sent a payment of £1,273 to a legal firm abroad on 12 February 2020. It was told that it 
had not been received and contacted Starling Bank about this. G was told that because it 
had selected the low cost local partner option rather than send this payment by SWIFT 
that it could not be traced. Starling Bank said G would have seen that it was sent without a 
reference and was not possible to recall if a mistake was made.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and that Starling Bank should 
trace the payment. G said it did not make a mistake with its payment and we would expect a 
business to take reasonable steps to recover funds where a payment goes missing. There is 
no guarantee of success and this is on a best endeavours basis.
Starling Bank did not agree and said it could not trace the payment. It said that a low-cost 
payment goes through the specified countrys local banking network and will arrive from a 
third-party business its appointed and possibly through it into another local banks name. 
That third party does not provide it with a tracing system. It had indicated on its website 
that the SWIFT option could be used for this type of invoice payment and it now said that 
this would have been most suitable. It admitted that it should also have stated on the 
payment screen that a low-cost payment could not be traced as well as that it could not be 
recalled. All Starling Bank could provide was the confirmation of sending.
my provisional decisions
I issued two provisional decision about this complaint and I summarise below what I said.
i) Further information
Id reviewed the terms and conditions for Gs account, and I thought the following parts were 
most relevant:
An international payment is a payment made through the International Payments page in 
the App (page 8)
And at page 3 - other organisations are also involved in processing International Payments 
and we are not responsible for all stages of an International Payment. If we become aware 
that an International Payment has been rejected or delayed, we will try to help you to 
retrieve the funds.
At page 6 - We accept liability where we act on a payment instruction and this is not 
received by your payees bank (or a correspondent bank of your payees bank), except 
where this is a result of your or your payees bank negligence (for example if you included 
the wrong payee details).
I couldnt see any reference to specific exclusions for the low-cost payment option. I asked 
the investigator to contact Starling Bank and in light of my understanding of these 
conditions set out that I couldnt see that it had investigated first whether G had initiated 
the payment with the correct details and then if it had whether that payment was received. 
I didnt think that the service offered by the third-party agent was the issue here. I asked 
for any comments.
Starling Bank came back and simply said that this would be down to G. It could not 
determine if the IBAN (international bank account number) is correct and linked to the 
intended beneficiary. The payment is sent with no human interaction and so there isnt 
much to investigate.
ii) my first provisional decision
I didnt think Starling Bank had quite understood my point here and the consequences 
taking into account the terms and conditions and what I think is fair and reasonable. So, I 
issued a first provisional decision to explain my thinking further.
It seems to be accepted that G was not alerted in advance to the fact that the low-cost 
payment it made could not be traced if not received. And that Starling Banks position 
seems to be that if it didnt arrive then it could not do anything about this.
While I understood what it says about the reduced features of a low-cost compared to a 
SWIFT payment I was not persuaded that G agreed to accept the risk if a process mistake 
was made and/ or the payment got lost in the international banking system and did not 
arrive with the beneficiarys bank. That wasnt a fair exclusion taking into account the terms 
and conditions I quoted above. I did accept though that G reasonably knew that if it input 
the beneficiary account details incorrectly then there was relatively little that could be done 
about that.
So, I considered that if G can show that it did direct the payment to the intended beneficiary, 
and it did not arrive then under the terms and conditions Starling Bank agreed at least to try 
and retrieve the funds. And if it could not be shown that it reached the beneficiarys bank 
then it assumed liability for this. How it does that and its normal process is of course a 
matter for it to determine and not for me to say. But if as it says its contract with the third-
party agent it uses excludes payment tracing I didnt see that as something that should 
adversely affect G. I would consider that to be an unfair outcome for G in these particular 
circumstances.
As Starling Bank insists it cannot do anything to investigate the payment further I needed 
to make my provisional decision based on that. There seems little prospect of it being 
able to provide any further evidence to assist in determining what happened to the 
payment.
As part of a response to the first provisional decision I invited G to provide evidence to 
show it made a loss including the following:
- The invoice for the payment setting out the bank details of the 
beneficiary corresponding to the payment details it used.- Correspondence with the beneficiary about the payment not being received and 
also if it has this of any enquiries the beneficiary had made of its own bank and 
showing that this was not resolved.
- Clear evidence that G was required to and did make this specific payment again 
to the beneficiary and as a result had a financial loss by paying it twice.
Subject to that evidence of loss I said I was then minded to require Starling Bank to refund 
the payment. I also considered that G has been caused inconvenience and I intended to 
recognise this with compensation of £200.
iii) response to my first provisional decision
G provided a copy of the invoice from its client dated 6 February 2020 that led to this 
payment. It showed that it had explored what happened to the payment. And had been 
told by its client, the beneficiary, who had contacted its bank that no payment either in 
local currency or sterling had been received. It showed that it had made the payment 
again on 14 April 2020. It agreed with my assessment.
Starling Bank having seen the invoice noted that this said it should be paid in sterling (GBP). 
But G had paid it from its account in local currency. It said that it thought that this was a 
mistake on the part of G. And that in line with the terms and conditions it was not 
responsible for the payment not arriving.
In response to that point G said that its suppliers account was in local currency and it 
didnt think that the invoice being written in GBP was material. It believed that the total 
was converted for information purposes only.
iv) my reassessment in a second provisional decision
Id considered this new evidence and the comments carefully and issued a second 
provisional decision on 9 December 2020. While I thought that G had made the payment 
again Id been alerted to an error with the way the original payment was sent.
I took the view that the currency that a payment is sent in is an integral part of the 
payment instruction alongside the IBAN. Its not impossible that a payment in a currency 
other than that requested be accepted and where necessary exchanged at the point of 
receipt. But I was looking here at whether I can reasonably hold Starling Bank responsible 
for the payment not being received.
It would I knew come as a disappointment to the directors of G when I said that I no longer 
thought that I could hold Starling Bank responsible. I was not able to find that the only 
reason the payment didnt arrive was due to a processing error that Starling Bank made. A 
plausible explanation is due to the way the payment was sent. And in making my 
assessment I also took into account the terms and conditions of the account. These state 
that Starling Bank accepts liability for a payment not arriving unless G made a mistake. G 
had been alerted that due the nature of this low-cost payment it couldnt be recalled if a 
mistake was made. There was no reference with this payment method and Starling Bank 
had said that the more expensive SWIFT method would be suitable for the payment of an 
invoice.
I had to say that I found it unsatisfactory to have reached my conclusion in this way. 
Starling Bank took no action to look into this payment and to establish whether or not it 
had been sent correctly. Had it done so and investigated things as I would have expected 
then this matter would have been resolved more quickly. Nevertheless, the position is that I was no longer able reasonably to find it has made a mistake with the payment and so I 
didnt now have a basis to require it to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt receive any response to my second provisional decision from Starling Bank or G and 
so I see no reason to depart from my conclusions in my second provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman