DRN-2122821
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of service hes received from Phoenix Life Assurance Limited 
(Phoenix) regarding the payment of benefits from his pension. In particular he complains that 
Phoenix mis informed him that he was eligible to receive a tax-free lump sum payment and 
subsequently made a purchase on that basis. He now wants the money he lost making that 
purchase to be refunded as well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
He also complains about the original advice he was given to transfer his previous employers 
pension and says he wasnt aware that the new plan contained a guaranteed minimum 
payment (GMP)  which he didnt require.
What happened
Mr D had joined an employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) in 1981. He left the 
scheme in 1993. In 1998 he met with a financial adviser (not part of Phoenix) and agreed to 
transfer the OPS benefits into a pension plan with Phoenix. Phoenix administered the plan 
thereafter but didnt hold Mr Ds address, so it was unable to send him an 18 month pre-
retirement pack in October 2017 as part of its process. 
But, having managed to trace Mr D in May 2019, Phoenix wrote to Mr D and asked him to 
confirm his identity. This was confirmed in June 2019 with Mr Ds new address being 
updated. He then contacted Phoenix and requested details of the pension plan. He was sent 
a pre-retirement pack on 25 June 2019. The pack confirmed that Mr D was due to retire on 
9 November 2019 and noted the transfer value on 25 June 2019 as £103,724.58.
Mr D contacted Phoenix again on 5 August 2019 and asked to draw benefits from his plan, 
requesting his lump sum payment.  Phoenix confirmed that as the plan contained a GMP it 
would need to calculate manually whether that was possible  and advised that it would write 
to Mr D.  
On 8 August Phoenix wrote to Mr D regarding his retirement options. It said he could:
Take out an annuity either through Phoenix or another provider.
Take out an investment product, such as income drawdown.
Defer the retirement date.
It confirmed the estimated value of the plan was £115,984.01 and that no tax-free cash was 
available. It confirmed Mr Ds retirement date was 9 November 2019 and he needed to 
choose from the options available.
On the same day that the letter was sent, Mr D paid a deposit towards the purchase of a 
caravan with the balance due at the end of September 2019. So, when he received the 
retirement pack Mr D then contacted Phoenix to confirm that no tax-free cash was available. 
He asked what other options were available including transferring his pension to another 
provider and transferring to a drawdown plan with Phoenix. Mr D was made aware that, 
because of the requirement to cover the GMP, no other options were available.
So Mr D complained about the misleading information he said Phoenix had provided and 
about the suitability of the original advice hed been given to transfer his OPS into another 
plan. He said hed purchased a caravan based on being told on the telephone that he wold 
be receiving the tax-free cash and he wasnt now able to get a refund. He said hed 
borrowed the money from a family member and now had to make repayments to them.
Phoenix rechecked the figures and sent out a corrected retirement quote on 20 August 2019. 
Although this contained the same figures and confirmed no tax-free cash was available from 
the plan. In September 2019 Phoenix sent another pack which confirmed the estimated plan 
value was £117,335.71, and it again confirmed that no tax-free cash was available. Mr D 
then contacted Phoenix to ask if there was an option to transfer the plan to another provider 
and if he had any further options. So Phoenix issued a further letter explaining that  due to 
the cost of providing the GMP, it wasnt able to offer the option of transferring the plan or 
allowing tax free cash to be taken.  
Phoenix then answered Mr Ds complaints. Firstly, it said that it hadnt provided advice 
around the sale of the policy and gave the details of the adviser involved. But it did consider 
Mr Ds complaint about its administration of his plan. It said it had implied that tax free cash 
could be taken from the plan in its letter of June 2019  but it thought that it was Mr Ds 
decision to purchase the caravan and noted that the final payment was due after hed been 
made aware that no tax-free cash was due. It said it would consider reimbursement of any 
reasonable costs relating to the deposit on production of receipts. It offered Mr D £500 for 
the delay in responding and the trouble and upset hed been caused. 
Mr D reiterated that hed only purchased the caravan after being told hed receive the tax-
free cash and had recently done something similar with another provider  who did let him 
drawdown the cash. He said hed been able to obtain written confirmation that the deposit 
hed paid towards the caravan was not refundable but found the experience degrading. He 
now wanted Phoenix to refund the deposit hed paid.
Mr D also said that he didnt think Phoenixs offer of £500 was enough for the distress and 
inconvenience he and his wife had suffered and noted there was still a conflict of information 
from when hed previously been told he could take an open market option (OMO) on the 
plan. He said hed originally been told he could take his pension before his 65th birthday but 
was later informed that he couldnt. 
Phoenix didnt think it was reasonable to reimburse Mr D for the costs hed incurred. It said it 
felt the caravan company were acting unfairly. But it said that as Mr D had to go to the 
trouble of contacting the caravan company again, it would increase its offer of a payment for 
distress and inconvenience to £1,000. Mr D didnt accept the offer. He said hed been served 
papers to repossess his property as he was struggling to repay the outstanding debt on the 
purchase of the caravan. He decided to bring his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter.  
The investigator said she would only look into the matter of the incorrect information about 
the tax-free cash, as any complaint about the suitability of the advice to transfer was the 
responsibility of the original adviser. She explained that due to the cost of providing the 
GMP, Phoenix was unable to offer either a transfer of the plan or payment of tax-free cash. 
She said that Phoenix had provided incorrect information in its pack of 25 June 2019, but 
she didnt think that meant it should refund the deposit for the caravan. 
But she did accept that Phoenix had raised Mr Ds expectations of what he might receive 
and thought its offer of £1,000 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree and made the following points:He wasnt looking to recoup the full cost of the caravan simply the loss of the initial 
£15,000 deposit. He said Phoenix had agreed to put him back into the position he 
would have been without the incorrect information and refunding the deposit would 
do that. 
He would pursue his claim about the potential unsuitable transfer advice with FSCS  
as advised by Phoenix (the original adviser was no longer trading).
He didnt receive Phoenixs follow up pack promised during the conversation of 
5 August until several days later. As he hadnt heard from Phoenix, he assumed 
there was no difference from what hed been told in June 2019 and paid the deposit 
for the caravan on 8 August 2019.  
It was true that he didnt have the funds available when he bought the caravan, but 
hed made the purchase based on what hed been told  which he thought was 
reasonable.
The arrears on his mortgage from April 2019  which the investigator had referred to, 
was part of an agreed payment holiday so had no bearing on his more recent 
problems.
He didnt accept Phoenixs offer of £1,000 but realised he wasnt going to 
compensated by Phoenix Life in the way it had initially suggested. So, he was willing 
to compromise on a reasonable figure.
The investigator said she thought it was likely that Phoenix did advise Mr D that it would 
need to check his retirement benefit figures and confirm them in writing. And therefore, Mr D 
had made a large purchase without confirmation of the funds he would receive or having 
those funds in his possession. And she didnt think it was fair to ask Phoenix Life to 
compensate Mr D for the deposit on the caravan or his mortgage arrears. 
 
Mr D requested a copy of Phoenixs file for the case and after he reviewed it, he asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for review. 
Mr Ds annuity was paid on 14 January 2020 but was backdated to his normal retirement 
date (NRD) of 9 November 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint Mr D and I have some sympathy for his position here. I was 
particularly sorry to learn of the financial difficulties hes having  which he says are a direct 
result of this matter. So, Ill give my reasons for my decision. 
I should first explain that Mr D has made a number of complaint points about the original 
advice he was given to transfer his OPS benefits into the plan with Phoenix, and also about 
the GMP within his plan. Mr D has been given details of how to make a complaint against 
the firm that gave him that advice  so I wont be considering that matter. What Ill be looking 
at here is the administration of Mr Ds plan by Phoenix from the time it first traced him and 
made him aware that his pension was close to its selected retirement date. 
Should Phoenix refund the caravan deposit and associated costs?
Phoenix Life traced Mr D in 2019 and made him aware that it held a pension in his name, 
from which benefits could be drawn on 9 November 2019. It had a number of conversations with Mr D between June and December 2019 and provided him with correspondence 
including several retirement packs. 
With this type of plan the fund needs to be able to pay for a GMP at the NRD 65 in this 
case. If the fund isnt sufficient to achieve that, then other benefits such as transferring 
elsewhere, drawing benefits early and taking tax free cash have to be removed to ensure the 
GMP is met. Im satisfied thats what happened here  so I think Phoenix acted correctly 
when it paid Mr Ds benefits as an annuity with no tax-free cash available. 
I think it made Mr D aware in its communications of the consequences of not meeting the 
GMP. And Phoenix Life has confirmed that the fund value on 8 November 2019 was 
£119,781 whereas the cost of providing the GMP was £135,967. So Im satisfied it couldnt 
have allowed the other options available including taking tax free cash.
But what I also have to consider is whether Phoenix provided misleading information about   
paying tax free cash from Mr Ds plan, and to what extent it might be responsible for any 
costs he incurred as a result of actions he took  based on that misleading information.
Mr Ds complaint is that, based on the retirement pack from June 2019 and the telephone 
conversation he had on 5 August 2019, he thought he was eligible for a tax-free lump sum 
from his plan. 
So, based on that information, he says he put down a deposit on a caravan  which was only 
refundable at the discretion of the selling company. But he says he now cant afford the 
balance needed to purchase the caravan and is struggling to afford the repayments for the 
deposit money he borrowed, over a short term, from his family. He says this has caused him 
to fall into arrears on his mortgage.
Theres no dispute that the initial pack he received did state that a tax free lump sum of up to 
£19,782.32 was available on 5 April 2006 (A-Day), which although was under the section 
entitled A-Day and lump sum values  and therefore not an accurate reflection of any tax 
free cash that was available at that point or on retirement, would nonetheless have probably 
given Mr D an expectation that he would receive tax free cash. 
However, I note that within the same pack it stated possible GMP and tax-free lump sum 
restriction- if the cost of buying your RGMP is more than three-quarters of your entire 
pension fund, your tax-free lump sum will be less than the amount HMRC usually allow to be 
paid. If the cost of your RGMP is more than the total value of your entire pension, then no 
tax-free lump sum can be paid. So I think that, although the suggestion was that a tax-free 
lump sum payment might be applicable, there were also warnings that calculations at the 
NRD might mean it wasnt applicable in Mr Ds case.
In any case the transfer figure of £103,724.58 was not guaranteed and will be recalculated 
at any future date. So it wouldnt have been possible to be sure of the final amount of tax-
free cash until that recalculation of the transfer fund was carried out. So I think there were 
sufficient warnings and statements within the pack, to put Mr D on alert that any potential tax 
free cash sum wouldnt be finalised until he actually received his benefits, and in that respect 
he would be unwise to make a firm allocation of that cash figure before he received it  
which in any event he didnt. 
  
But, in any case Mr D didnt decide to put a deposit down on the caravan until hed spoken to 
Phoenix again on 5 August 2019 as was confirmed by the sales agent that sold the caravan. 
So, Ive listened carefully to that call to see if Phoenix further supported its position of the 
June 2019 pack and made it clear to Mr D that he would be receiving the tax-free cash 
figure. During the call the adviser confirmed the value of the fund and the potential for a 
GMP and for a guaranteed sum assured, but he then said that he needed to get the calculations confirmed by the back office if Mr D was looking to do a full encashment. He 
confirmed the details of the GMP and guaranteed sum assured and talked about the 
potential for other things such as tax free cash, but I dont think he suggested that tax free 
cash was definitely going to be available, and I dont think he made any guarantees about 
what Mr D could expect from his plan benefits. He recommended that Mr D should speak to 
Pension Wise and to shop around, and he also confirmed that Mr D might want to seek 
financial advice. He said hed created a retirement pack which should be with Mr D within a 
week or so and would confirm the details of what Mr D needed to know about drawing his 
pension benefits.
Im satisfied that the adviser didnt confirm that tax free cash was available, and I think he 
gave sufficient warnings that the pack that was being prepared would confirm exactly what 
Mr Ds options were. I know Mr D will say that the adviser didnt contradict the earlier 
information hed received which talked about a tax-free lump sum  but at the same time 
there was no confirmation of the amount of tax-free cash, if any, that was available. So I 
think it would have been appropriate for Mr D to have waited to receive the pack for 
confirmation  especially as this was now over two months since he received the original 
pack which had suggested that tax free cash was available. 
 
And the retirement pack, which was sent to Mr D on 8 August 2019, did confirm what hed 
been told during the telephone conversation. With regards to a tax-free lump sum it stated 
that unfortunately there are insufficient funds available under your plan to provide any tax-
free lump sum in addition to your GMP benefit. So this information seemed to be consistent 
with the fact that Phoenix hadnt mentioned a tax-free lump sum during the call of 
5 August 2019. And this was in direct contradiction to the information provided in the pack of 
June 2019. 
Based on what Mr D had been told on 5 and 8 August 2019, I dont think he was given any 
encouragement that a tax free sum was available, and I think it would have been prudent not 
to have committed to spending any potential tax free sum until Mr D was able to confirm the 
conflicting information hed received, especially as the firm he bought the caravan from said 
that the deposit would only be refunded at its discretion  so Mr D would have known it was 
possible he could lose his money if there was any problem with the funds.
In any case the letter from 8 August 2019 contained a statement which said the above 
pension fund is not guaranteed and may vary between now and the pension start date, so 
the retirement benefits available may be higher or lower than shown. The final level of 
benefits will be calculated on the pension date or, if later, when all our requirements are met 
in full. I also note the June 2019 letter stated, in respect of the transfer value, this value is 
not guaranteed and will be recalculated at any future date.. So, even if there had been a 
tax-free cash lump sum to be paid its final amount couldnt have been known until the 
benefits were paid in November 2019 and I think Phoenix made Mr D aware of that. 
So, I dont think in was in Mr Ds best interests to have made such a commitment to spend 
his funds until he was sure how much he would receive  or until any outstanding doubts 
were confirmed in writing following the telephone conversation of 5 August 2019, especially 
as the person Mr D spoke with said the figures would need to be manually calculated by 
Phoenixs back office. I dont think Phoenix should have to make up the deposit Mr D paid 
towards the caravan or contribute towards any ancillary costs he suffered as a result of 
having to borrow the money from his family. 
The loss of the pension income from not being able to take the pension early
Mr D also said that he was told he could take his pension earlier than the NRD and wants 
Phoenix to make up those lost payments.The retirement pack of June 2019 stated that where retirement is requested before age 65, 
we must check to ensure there are enough funds in the plan for us to buy a pension, of at 
least the GMP, at the earlier date. So I think Phoenix did alert Mr D to the possibility that he 
might not be able to draw his benefits before his 65th birthday if circumstances didnt allow. 
I know Mr D says that Phoenix told him verbally that he would be able to draw the benefits 
early, and Ive listened carefully to that call. But I dont think the adviser guaranteed there 
wouldnt be any penalties if Mr D did draw the benefits earlier. He did say that should be ok 
but he also said it would be confirmed in the pack that would follow  because the plan 
contained a GMP and a guaranteed sum assured.
The adviser also only confirmed that a market value adjustment (MVA) wouldnt apply if Mr D 
took his benefits early, but this wasnt the only penalty that might apply, So I dont think the 
adviser confirmed there wouldnt be any charges at all if Mr D took his benefits earlier than 
his NRD. But in any case, the letter from 8 August 2019 said, under the section entitled 
could an early claim charge apply, that not if benefits are taken on or after 
9 November 2019. So, I think it was clear that the only situation in which charges might not 
apply was if Mr D took his benefits at or after the NRD. 
Whilst the adviser could have been clearer in explaining the difference between the MVA 
and any other potential charges that might apply before 9 November 2019, I cant safely say 
that Phoenix misled Mr D and told him he could take his benefits early and without penalty. 
Phoenixs offer for the distress and inconvenience caused
As Ive already said theres no dispute that Phoenix provided some incorrect information and 
might have misled Mr D, to some degree, that a tax-free sum might be payable. Ive already 
concluded that Phoenix shouldnt have to compensate Mr D for either the deposit for or the 
balance due on the caravan, but Ive carefully considered the impact that the incorrect 
information had on Mr D and his wife  in particular the raised expectations of receiving a 
significant tax free sum of money to be able to use in their retirement and leisure.
 
And Mr D raised further concerns about Phoenixs inability to answer his questions during 
phone calls, the time taken to write to him when it referred those questions to the back 
office, having to complete multiple security questions during one call, and the overall time 
taken to respond to his complaint. 
But Phoenix has acknowledged its errors and offered Mr D £1,000 as compensation. Mr D 
has said he thinks this offer is derisory and I understand his feelings given the level of losses 
he considers the firms incorrect information has caused. However, having carefully 
considered the matter and taking everything into account, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
offer for the distress and inconvenience caused and within the range of what I might expect 
to see in such circumstances.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman