The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc has not offered him adequate compensation after a card 
machine retained his debit card.
What happened
Mr R has a debit card with TSB. He attempted to make a cash withdrawal at a cash machine 
but his card was retained and he didnt get any cash. He complained to TSB and it issued 
him with a new card three days later. Mr R has successfully used the new card to make cash 
withdrawals.
TSB said that it couldnt be sure why the card machine had retained the card. It checked its 
systems and noted that the card was not blocked. It was unable to check the card itself since 
this was destroyed by the machine when it was retained. It paid Mr R £25 for the distress 
and inconvenience he had experienced.
Mr R felt that the amount of compensation he was offered was insulting. TSB said that this 
was in line with its own internal guidance and was sufficient compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.
Mr R disagreed and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
things. He thought that TSB had dealt with the issue quickly when it was brought to its 
attention. Although TSB couldnt explain why the card had been retained the investigator 
said that our role wasnt to penalise banks when things went wrong. He felt that £25 was fair 
and reasonable compensation.
Mr R disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator.
I can understand that Mr R was inconvenienced when his card was retained by the cash 
machine and he says that he had to borrow money from a friend at the time. But, TSB has 
told us that it didnt do anything that caused the card to be retained. There were no blocks on 
the card or any notes on its systems that wouldve caused the card to be retained. TSB says 
that the card may have been faulty or damaged but its unable to check this because the 
card was destroyed when it was retained.
DRN-1158917I can see that TSB acted swiftly when the matter was brought to its attention. It issued a 
replacement card within three days and Mr R has been able to use the replacement card to 
make cash withdrawals. I can also see that it paid Mr R £25 by way of compensation which I 
think is fair and reasonable. So in the circumstances, I dont require TSB to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman