DRN-2634615
The complaint
Ms J complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
furniture protection plan for accidental damage to a table top.
What happened
In January 2019 Ms J purchased a dining room set of a glass topped table and six chairs. 
She also took out a furniture protection plan with Amtrust to cover the items.
In January 2020 Ms J noticed that there were some deep scratches on the glass table top 
that hadnt been there before. She says she thought they had been caused by the use of 
scissors while wrapping up Christmas presents with a member of her family. Ms J also 
noticed that two of the dining chairs had holes in them again she thought due to the use of 
scissors.
Ms J contacted Amtrust to make a claim under her furniture protection policy. And in 
February 2020 Amtrust sent a technician to Ms Js home to inspect the damage to the table 
and chairs.  
The technician reported that there were holes in the chairs as claimed by Ms J. They also 
said that the glass table top had multiple scratches which were deep and covered all three 
leaves of the table. They said they werent able to date the scratches due to the number and 
they didnt think they were consistent with Ms Js claim that they were caused by using 
scissors when wrapping presents.
The technician said that due to the depth of the scratches they wouldnt be able to repair the 
table top and the glass would need to be replaced instead. They also recommended that the 
two chairs should be replaced as they wouldnt able to undertake an effective repair to those 
either.  
Amtrust accepted the claim for the two dining chairs but declined Ms Js claim for repair to 
the glass table top. It said the policy only covered sudden and single incidents of accidental 
damage and the table top had been found to have multiple areas of damage which werent 
consistent with the reported incident.
Ms J complained to Amtrust about its decision to decline her claim for the table top. Amtrust 
didnt uphold her complaint and said the policy didnt cover the damage as the cause of all 
the scratches was unknown.
Ms J complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that Ms Js complaint should 
be upheld. She said that Amtrust had acted unfairly in declining the claim as although the 
table had a number of scratches on it, the technician had agreed that these were the result 
of a number of single incidents. She also didnt think Amtrust had sufficient evidence to say 
that Ms Js claim that the scratches had been caused by scissors wasnt feasible, particularly 
as it had been accepted the holes in the chairs had been caused by scissors at the same the 
table had been damaged.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Amtrust to either replace the glass table top or offer 
a settlement value for the table as per the policys terms and conditions.
Amtrust disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said the technician had reported that 
they had attempted to replicate the damage by forcefully pulling scissors across a similar 
table surface, but no scratches had resulted. Amtrust said the scratches were therefore 
inconsistent with Ms Js claim that they had been caused when wrapping presents and had 
actually built up over time.
As the parties had been unable to agree the complaint had been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Ms J doesnt dispute that the table top had other scratches on it when she 
made the claim for the scratches caused by the scissors. She says it was the deeper 
scratches that were very noticeable which had led to her claim in January 2020.
Amtrust says that the scratches are incompatible with the explanation given by Ms J. But Ms 
J has consistently said she believes this is how the damage arose and that is what 
probably happened. Ms J didnt notice the damage until a couple of weeks after the 
wrapping of the presents had occurred.
I think Ms J has been open and honest about the scratches on her table top, she didnt 
notice them straight away and when she did, she has thought back to the most likely 
explanation and recalled the wrapping of presents on the table which would have been a 
more unusual use of the table. She also accepts there were other scratches, but she hadnt 
claimed for those as it was the deeper ones that she considered noticeable and that she 
wanted to have repaired.
Amtrust says the policy doesnt cover Ms Js claim for the table top. The policy states it will 
cover the cost of repair in the event of a sudden and unintentional incident resulting in 
.accidental damage. It further says that your product will be covered ifb). the cause of 
the damage can be identified.
Looking at the evidence, I havent seen that it has been suggested by the technician or 
Amtrust that the scratches to the table top have resulted from a deliberate action by anyone 
or that Ms J hasnt used the table in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines. The 
technician has acknowledged that the scratches have resulted accidentally. He has also 
stated that the the deeper scratches are different from the rest of the lighter general wear 
scratches so more likely to be a single incident. So, I think the evidence is consistent with 
Ms Js claim that the deep scratches happened at a separate time from the other lighter 
scratches on the tables surface. And I think its reasonable to say these deep scratches 
resulted from one sudden and unintentional incident as per the policy terms.
The technician has said that they didnt accept the scratches were due to the use of scissors 
and described that scratches of the type found on Ms Js glass table top as being more likely 
the result of something heavy being pulled across the table like a laptop, vase or box with 
grit on the bottom.
As it was accepted that Ms J had been using the table and chairs while wrapping presents 
(as evidenced by the acceptance by Amtrust of Ms Js claim for the damage to the chairs by 
scissors) I think this activity would still be consistent with the scratches that were later found on the table top. I think its reasonable to think that in the act of wrapping up items its likely 
items would be pulled across the table to be wrapped up. I also think, despite the 
technicians test of pulling scissors across the table, that the scissors could still have caused 
the damage. I am not persuaded by the one-off test by the technician as disproving that this 
was the cause of the scratches as for instance, I dont know what type of scissors he was 
using, or Ms J had used. I think its reasonable to suggest that some scissors can be quite 
heavy. 
So, I think the cause of the damage can be identified as more likely than not arising from the 
present wrapping and the use of scissors. And as the scratches were accidental and arose 
from a single incident then I think it would be fair for Amtrust to cover Ms Js claim for the 
damage to the table top. Im upholding Ms Js complaint.   
Putting things right
I am asking Amtrust to replace the glass table top for Ms J or alternatively pay Ms J a 
settlement value for the table in accordance with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Js complaint. Im asking Amtrust Europe 
Limited to replace the glass table top for Ms J or alternatively pay Ms J a settlement value for 
the table in accordance with the policys terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman