DRN-2216750
The complaint
Mr H complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with an accidental duplication of payments to
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H said he paid his October 2018 credit card bill in full. It was £2,226.67. The bank
duplicated his payment. Mr H said he didnt realise this at the time, he only found out when
TSB rang him in May 2019 saying it had realised its mistake, and was going to take the
duplicate back off his bill.
Mr H said he wanted TSB to allow him to pay his credit card bill off over 12 months with no
interest, but TSB said no. It credited £25 to his account, paid £6 for calls, reimbursed £11.31
interest from June 2019 and waived interest and a late fee for July.
Mr H said this had caused him a lot of stress, and he said hed lost three days of work trying
to sort this out. Mr H referred his complaint to us in July 2019. And, about a month after that,
he stopped paying his monthly card bill.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr H was making his
payments manually at the time that the payment was duplicated. And she appreciated that
hed asked TSB to waive interest when it discovered this mistake, but it had said no. Mr H
was still using the card, so she thought it was reasonable for TSB to charge interest.
Mr H had tried to get in contact with TSB since, without success, but he just wanted to
explain that he wasnt going to pay the card bill until the issue was sorted out. Hes shown us
this now affects his credit file. Our investigator didnt think TSB did anything wrong by noting
on his credit file that hed missed payments. She didnt think TSB had to do any more.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed repeatedly written to TSB asking for a meeting to sort this
issue out, and it hadnt replied to those letters either. But our investigator said that TSB had
already made its position clear. Mr H wanted his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr H made a large manual payment to pay his October 2018 credit card bill. That 
payment reached his account on 30 October 2018. We now know that payment was 
duplicated. He paid one amount of £2,226.67. TSB credited his account with two 
amounts of £2,226.67. 
I think its important to decide whether I think that its likely that Mr H did, or didnt, 
notice the duplicated payments at the time. I think that because I think the impact on 
Mr H would be different if he really hadnt noticed TSBs mistake.
I know that Mr H told us that he didnt realise this duplication had happened until TSB 
told him, in May 2019. But I think there are some things that indicate Mr H was 
keeping a close eye on his credit card account at the time the duplication happened.
Mr H wasnt paying his debt by monthly direct debit. He had been making manual 
payments to his bill in late 2018  so he was taking active steps himself each month 
to make sure the bill was paid. And Mr H had also made some large payments from 
his card on 31 October 2018, which was the day after hed cleared the balance for 
the previous month.
For those reasons, I think Mr H wouldve expected to have to make a payment 
towards his credit card debt in late November or early December of 2018. And he 
didnt. His account was in credit then. So I think its likely that Mr H did notice his 
October 2018 payment had been duplicated. I think he knew TSB had made a 
mistake.
TSB told Mr H it had discovered the mistake in May 2019. It then removed the 
mistaken credit from his account. It waived and refunded some charges and interest, 
and paid some compensation. Because I think that its more likely than not that Mr H 
had realised before this that his payment had been duplicated, I dont think TSB had 
to do more than that. I think that provides a fair outcome to this part of Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to us, and he stopped paying his card. He also 
repeatedly asked TSB to respond to him, or to meet with him, to sort this matter out. 
TSB doesnt seem to have replied to that correspondence.
Its not uncommon, once a customer has referred a complaint to us, for it not to 
provide a substantive response to its customer about the same complaint. It helps to 
keep things simple if the bank isnt trying to resolve a complaint at the same time as 
we are. So I dont think that TSB had to meet with Mr H, or provide a substantive 
response to his requests to reconsider its position on the debt.
But TSB seems to have largely ignored his letters and requests, except for a second
response in May 2020 saying that it had reviewed the case and hadnt changed its 
mind. I think it wouldve been better if TSB had provided at least a holding response 
to Mr H, or an explanation that it wasnt going to reply, and if it had done this around 
July 2019, not May 2020. Because it doesnt appear to have done that, I think TSB 
should pay Mr H £50 in compensation.
Mr H has stopped paying his card debt, and TSB has recorded a large number of late
payments on his credit file. Mr H does owe TSB this money. I understand hes found 
this a very frustrating process. But I dont think it was reasonable for him to withhold 
all payment while he was trying to sort this issue out. So I dont think TSB has to 
remove these late payment markers now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr H didnt respond. TSB replied to disagree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.TSB said that it didnt think it shouldve sent Mr H a holding letter after it had issued a final 
response to his complaint. It said that wasnt part of its process, and when a complaint is 
reopened, TSB cant provide any timescales as to when the complaint will be reviewed.
TSB says it doesnt think it has to keep corresponding with a customer after theyve made a 
complaint. But I note that the letter TSB sent in June 2019 says we want you to feel that 
weve properly understood and responded to your complaint based on the information you 
gave us. If you feel we havent and you have more information, please get back in touch by 
calling us on the details at the top of this letter. Although that phrase may be aimed at 
ensuring there hasnt been any misunderstanding, it does appear to me that TSB 
encouraged Mr H to call, and continue to discuss this matter with it, in response to its final 
response letter. 
I also note that the complaint had shifted somewhat, as Mr H had also said he intended to 
withhold payment until this matter was sorted out. 
I still think, in this particular instance, it was not fair and reasonable for TSB to both refuse to 
engage with Mr Hs further correspondence and calls, and not to tell him that for almost a 
year. For that reason, I still think TSB should pay Mr H £50. 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman