DRN-2365394
The complaint
Mr D complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited hasnt accepted his unemployment claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D was initially told by Fairmead that he couldnt make a claim under the policy. 
Whilst Fairmead may have been trying to manage Mr Ds expectations with regards 
to the possible outcome of his claim, it shouldve made it clear that him that he was 
entitled to make a claim. A few days later, Fairmead accepted this and agreed to 
consider the claim. I think that was the right response.
 
Mr D was then asked to send in information so the claim could be considered, but 
unfortunately, he hasnt sent Fairmead the information its asked for. 
Ive looked at Fairmeads request for information (as referred to by the investigator), 
and I think its request was reasonable. The information it has asked for will allow it to 
establish whether Mr Ds claim falls under the policy terms. It can then give him a 
claims decision. 
I see that Mr D later chose to cancel his policy. Fairmead offered to backdate the 
cancellation to the date he made the claim (which was just after his employment 
ended) and provide him with a refund of premiums. Alternatively, he could continue 
with his claim. Given Mr Ds reluctance to provide the relevant information and 
proceed with his claim, I think those options were reasonable. 
Mr D thinks Fairmead has fabricated a letter it says it sent to him in March 2020, but 
Ive seen no evidence of that. Although he says the letter contains information that 
wasnt known to Fairmead at the time, I dont agree. The letter referred to what had 
happened the previous month.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman