DRN-3421522
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) delayed giving it access to online banking. 
What happened
G opened a business account with NatWest and in September 2021 requested online 
banking facilities be added. NatWest wrote back to G a few days later to say the account 
mandate required both signatories to sign the form. So it asked for the request for online 
banking to be re-submitted with two signatures. G subsequently raised a complaint about not 
being given online access to its account.
 
NatWest responded to the complaint in November 2021. It said the forms completed when 
the account was opened showed G had opted for two authorised signatories to be required 
when giving the bank instructions on behalf of the company. Thats why it hadnt acted on 
the request to add online banking facilities to the account  as only one of the signatories 
had signed the form. However, NatWest still offered £200 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused, and also arranged for login details and activation codes to be sent to 
both signatories.
 
G didnt accept the offer  and said not having access to online banking had caused 
significant disruption to its operations. It meant payments for the business had been made 
from one of the directors personal accounts, which could result in tax implications. G also 
said it hadnt set up the account with two signatories  and referred to a fault with the online 
banking system, which prevented payments of over £1,000 from being made. 
Unhappy with NatWests response, G asked us to review things. Once the matter had been 
referred to our service, NatWest told us it didnt think it had made an error. So it considered 
the compensation paid to be generous in the circumstances. The bank also said G hadnt 
used the activation codes to fully register for online banking before theyd expired. It added 
that by December 2021 only one of the signatories had requested another one be sent. 
An investigator here reviewed everything and didnt think NatWest was responsible for the 
issues G had faced or the tax consequences for using a directors personal account. He 
noted that G had selected two to sign on the mandate form when opening the account  
meaning both signatories would have to sign to authorise any changes. So, on that basis, he 
thought NatWest had acted reasonably when it asked G to resubmit the form to request 
online banking with both signatures. The investigator also thought NatWest had explained 
what G needed to do to change the mandate from requiring two signatures  so concluded 
the bank had acted fairly overall.
G didnt agree. It said NatWest had accepted its system was faulty, and hadnt told G in a 
reasonable amount of time what it needed to do to fix things. It therefore maintained 
NatWest was liable for its losses. G also mentioned that it was able to withdraw large sums 
of money without the counter signatory at various times, so didnt understand why that 
requirement delayed online banking being set up.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Gs complaint. Ill explain why  but firstly I want to set out 
that this decision covers what happened up until NatWest responded to the complaint in 
November 2021 (when G also referred things to us). If G had issues accessing or using 
online banking after that point then it would need to raise those separately with the bank as a 
new complaint.  
The initial application for the business bank account was submitted with two signatories. G 
also asked NatWest, as part of that application, to set up the signing rules for the account as 
requiring both signatories to authorise any instructions (made on behalf of the G) to the 
bank. Only one signatory signed the form to apply for online banking  and NatWest 
responded within a few days to explain why it couldnt act on that request without 
authorisation from the second signatory. NatWest also explained in its final response to the 
complaint what G needed to do if it wanted to change the mandate to allow one signatory.
Telling NatWest to set up online banking on the account was an instruction on behalf of G. 
So, according to the signing rules that G set up on the account, that instruction required 
authorisation of both signatories. Therefore I find NatWest acted fairly and reasonably when 
it told G the form would need to be resubmitted with both signatures, as stipulated by the 
account mandate. I also dont consider the bank delayed explaining to G what needed to 
happen to get online banking set up  as it did that within a few days of the request. 
I appreciate that Gs director might not have remembered setting up the signing rules that 
way, or meant to select that option. But, having reviewing that section of the initial 
application form, I find it to be clearly set out and explained. If G was unsure what selecting 
that option would mean practically for operating the account then it needed to make enquires 
with the bank before opting for it.
G has mentioned having problems with sending larger payments  meaning it used one of 
the directors personal accounts. Im unsure whether G is referring to technical issues with 
the online banking system once it got access. But the login details were only sent following 
the final response in November 2021  so for the period Im looking at, G didnt have access 
to online banking. I also havent seen any evidence of there being technical issues with the 
account or online banking at this time, nor any admission from NatWest that was the case.
If G is referring to problems after it got access then it would need to raise a complaint about 
that with NatWest. If G is referring more generally to not being able to send larger payments 
during the period in question, because it didnt have online access, then I dont find that was 
the result of any mistakes by NatWest. Looking through the statements covering the period 
within the scope of this decision, I also cant see any large payments were made from the 
account  only smaller debit card transactions. The use of the debit cards on the account is 
covered under separate terms to the signing rules. So I cant see any evidence of payment 
instructions, on behalf of G, being approved by the bank during this period with one 
signatory.
Overall, I find that sending out the login details for online banking, without requiring G to 
resubmit the form, was a fair solution to the complaint. If NatWest hadnt already paid compensation, I wouldnt be awarding any  as I havent found the impact G is claiming for 
was result of any errors by the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Gs complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman