DRN-3086783
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in July 1996. 
Mr N says AXA France IARD mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ns 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ns representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ns. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Mr N completed at the time of sale. 
Within this application form, I can see there is a separate section called: Payment and 
Purchase Protection. The form goes on to give a brief description of the cover and the 
applicant the option of adding PPI to their account. The applicant then needed to indicate 
if they wanted the cover by placing a tick next to the statement which starts: Yes, I 
wish . On Mr Ns form he has placed a tick in the relevant section, indicating that he 
wanted the cover.  
If Mr N didnt want the cover, he couldve left this section blank, like he had for other 
sections on the form for additional products. I dont know what was discussed at the time 
Mr N took out the card, but I would have expected Mr N to have had an opportunity to 
read over the form and raise any questions he had at the time before signing it. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr N knew the policy was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr N enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr N. Although Mr N says he had a 
medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to 
change his mind about taking out the cover. I say this because Mr N has told us his 
condition was well managed and didnt result in him being off work for extended periods 
of time.
Mr N has referred to his employee benefits and says they wouldve covered him if he 
was made redundant or unwell. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside these employee 
benefits. Mr N has also referred to his death in service benefit, but this isnt comparable 
to the PPI which covered Mr N for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable for Mr N  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. So overall I dont think Mr N would have declined the cover had 
AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ns circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr N would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ns representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ns representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ns individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ns particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman