DRN-4393910
The complaint
Ms A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly declined her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of 
a holiday club membership using her credit card.    
What happened
In or around 2012, Ms A was looking for a holiday to book through an online service. Whilst 
doing so, she saw a message offering a discount through a holiday club. Using this offer, 
she managed to secure the discount advertised for her online booking.
In June 2012, Ms A went away on the holiday shed booked, where she was greeted and 
taken to a meeting and presentation that related to the purchase of a holiday club 
membership from a supplier who Ill refer to as C. Ms A says the meeting lasted a whole 
day in which she was told about the benefits of membership. 
Ms A agreed to purchase the holiday club membership through C and used her NatWest 
Credit Card to pay a deposit of £1,236.54. However, that evening she developed worries and 
concerns about what shed committed to and decided she wanted to cancel her application. 
So, she spoke with C the following day to voice her concerns. C then explained various other 
benefits and features she could have access to and persuaded her to upgrade her original 
application. So, Ms A agreed to purchase the upgraded membership for a total cost of 
£4,480, with the balance paid by bank transfer from an account with another business.
In or around September 2018, using a claims management company (the CMC), Ms A 
submitted a claim to NatWest under section 75 of the CCA (S75). The CMC said the claim 
was presented on the grounds a contractual breach had occurred in October 2012. The 
CMC said C was wound-up on 3 October 2012 and they were no longer allowed to trade. 
And as a consequence, C were also no longer able to fulfil their contractual obligations.
Having considered Ms As claim, NatWest didnt agree it should be upheld. They thought Ms 
As claim had been brought too late. Whilst the claim letter from the CMC was dated 24 
September 2018, it wasnt date stamped as received by them until 14 November 2018. And 
this was more than six years from the point at which the breach occurred.
Ms A and the CMC didnt agree with NatWests findings. They thought the onus lay with 
NatWest to prove the claim letter wasnt posted earlier. But NatWest disagreed. So, Ms A 
asked the CMC to refer matters to this service to consider further.
As a consequence of that referral, there have been numerous exchanges between all parties 
involved. During the course of this services investigation, the CMC ceased to act for Ms A. 
So, she enlisted the support of a professional representative (the PR). 
One of our investigators considered all the information and evidence available. Having done 
so, they thought the club membership had been sold by a different company who Ill refer to 
as CCS. And the payment had been made to third company who Ill refer to as Company 
I. The investigator said there needed to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship for a claim under the CCA to be considered. And our investigator didnt think the 
link was sufficient between C and Company I to show that relationship did exist. But based 
upon evidence provided by the PR, our investigator did think there was a valid link between 
CCS and Company I. So, thought that claim could be considered. However, because 
evidence suggested the claim wasnt received by NatWest until 14 November 2018, our 
investigator thought Ms As claim had been brought too late under provisions within the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). 
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. They provided evidence they thought 
supported their argument that C and Company I were sufficiently related to comply with the 
provisions within section 187 of the CCA (as defined in section 184). Further, the PR 
referred to other similar decisions previously issued by this service. 
The PR also provided evidence that C (and its related companies) had entered into an 
agreement with another company (who Ill refer to as Company L) in July 2012. They said 
that agreement resulted in Company L taking on all membership and administrative 
responsibilities from C (and its related companies). Because of that, they said this meant Ms 
As membership remained in place from that point.
The PR went on to show that Company L continued to manage the club until 2015, when a 
petition to wind-up Company L was issued. They said it was at this point that the breach of 
contract occurred. And because the claim was received by NatWest in November 2018, the 
claim was in time under the LA. The PR also said that a claim for misrepresentation had also 
been submitted to NatWest but hadnt been considered by this service.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Ms As complaint against NatWest has been 
referred to me to consider further. Having done so, while I was inclined to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, I considered a number of issues which I dont feel were 
previously fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 12 September 2023 giving 
both sides the chance to respond before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I noticed that the claim letter dated 24 September 2018 hadnt made any mention of 
misrepresentation. So, I asked the PR to provide further clarity on this point.
In response, the PR referred to and provided a copy of another letter of claim dated 
20 September 2018, which they say was sent to NatWest by the original CMC. That 
letter detailed various alleged misrepresentations that Ms A says C made when she 
purchased the membership product. The claim letter said the exclusive holiday 
package presented to Ms A was said to include:
5 free seven night (Freestay) Travel vouchers for European accommodation 
for four people plus 2 return flights, up to the value of £50;
A Cashback redemption policy which would entitle them to a guaranteed 
claim for £3,330 after a 3 year period had elapsed; and
A [] discount holiday and lifestyle membership.
But it soon became apparent that the package they had agreed to purchase was not 
as described, with vouchers restricted by availability and destination, subject to 
compulsory timeshare presentations and a service charge payable per booking. They 
said none of this had been explained to Ms A at the time of the sale.
I asked whether NatWest had received and considered the claims of 
misrepresentation contained in the letter dated 20 September 2012. In response, 
NatWest said breach of contract and misrepresentation are considered together 
when investigating a claim under section 75, which is what happened here. But they 
also said they were unable to locate a [date] stamped copy of the letter dated 20 
September 2018.
Relevant Considerations
The original membership contract purchased in June 2012 involved a payment made 
using a credit card in Ms As sole name. So, while the holiday club membership appears to have been purchased in joint names with another party, Ms A is the only 
eligible claimant under the CCA and, as such, the only eligible complainant.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mrs 
A paid a contribution towards the purchase with a credit card issued by NatWest. So, 
it isnt in dispute that S75 may apply here. This means that Ms A could be afforded 
the protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions  subject to any 
restrictions and limitations. As a result, Ive taken this section into account when 
deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Given the facts of Ms As complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a credit card payment - 
took place in 2012. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its 
relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint 
being considered here specifically relates to whether I believe NatWests treatment of 
Ms As claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information 
available. This service is not afforded powers to decide a legal claim. While the 
decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we 
do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The terms of the membership purchased
Ive seen some documents from the time of the sale which its said relate to the 
membership Ms A says she purchased. This include a copy of the Membership 
Application with bullet pointed summaries of the Services offered and any resultant 
Liabilities. Theres also a document which includes the Terms and Conditions of 
Membership. These documents appear to have been signed by Ms A and the joint 
purchasing party on 18 June 2012. 
On the first page of the Membership Application, it confirms the Membership Type 
as 1 year membership.
Point 2 of the Terms and Conditions says, I/we understand that all memberships [] 
are for 12 months only and I/we are not guaranteed any benefits or service once this 
membership time period elapses.
Point 3 of the Terms and Conditions says I/we understand that on expiry of the 12-
month period, [] members will be given the option to enter into a new contract 
direct with [C] for £95.
So, it appears the payment Ms A made with her NatWest credit card only provided a 
12-month contract. And Ive seen no evidence that Ms A extended her membership 
by paying the payment specified of £95. S75(3) says that Subsection (1)1 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100 or more than £30,000[].So, if I was to find that Ms A had renewed 
her club membership each subsequent year with further payments of £95 using her 
NatWest credit card (or any other CCA regulated product)  and I make no such 
finding - I dont believe a valid claim could be made for that under S75 given the 
contract renewal price is below the minimum £100 threshold. Importantly, this means 
that a S75 claim can only be considered for any proven contract breach or 
misrepresentation that occurred in the first year of membership. 
The claim for breach of contract
As Ive already mentioned above, the PR has provided evidence that responsibility 
for the provision and administration of membership services was transferred from C 
to Company L in July 2012. So, it would seem Ms A remained able to use her 
membership up until 2015  subject to her renewing her membership contract each 
year. 
The PR has confirmed that the breach of contract allegation now doesnt relate 
specifically to the initial 12-month membership period  which was funded by Ms As 
credit card issued by NatWest. They suggest the breach occurred in 2015. So, for the 
reasons Ive stated, I dont think NatWest can be held liable under S75 for any 
breach of contract thats alleged to have occurred after expiry of the original 
membership contract period. And because of that, I cant say that NatWests 
response was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. 
The claim for misrepresentation 
The claim letter of 20 September 2018 says the supplier misrepresented the nature 
and benefits of the membership to Ms A when she agreed to the purchase. And they 
believe this could bring cause for a claim under S75. Accepting NatWest say they 
considered misrepresentation as part of the overall claim, they havent been able to 
find a date stamped copy of this letter so cant confirm whether it was received or not. 
And neither the PR nor Ms A have provided any evidence to show when this was 
sent to NatWest and if and when it was received.
A section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of 
any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Ms A had to make a claim within six years of when she entered into the purchase 
contract and made payment with her credit card. The PR confirm this took place in 
June 2012. Thats because this is when they say Ms A lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact at that time.
The letter including details of the alleged misrepresentations was submitted by the 
CMC to NatWest and dated September 2018. But given this was more than six years 
after the purchase was completed and Ms A first says she lost out; I believe a court is 
likely to find that her claim for misrepresentation falls outside of the time limit 
permitted in the LA.
Was the necessary arrangement in place for a S75 claim to be made?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. It appears that the payment Ms A made 
was to Company I rather than to C or CCS. Following the High Courts judgment in 
the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022], its now possible that 
there was no such agreement in place to meet the requirements of the CCA.
1 In relation a misrepresentation or breach of contract.However, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint and my overall 
outcome with those in mind, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on 
the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this decision. Thats 
because I think NatWest had and has a defence to the misrepresentation claim in 
question under the Limitation Act 1980. Further, I also dont think the breach of 
contract claim is likely to succeed either for the reasons mentioned above.
Summary
I would like to reassure Ms A that Ive carefully considered everything she and her 
representatives have said and provided. While I realise she will be very disappointed, 
for the reasons Ive mentioned, I cant say that NatWests treatment of her claim was 
ultimately unfair and unreasonable. And as a consequence, I dont currently intend to 
ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest acknowledged my provisional decision and confirmed they agree with my findings.
Despite follow up by this service, neither Ms A nor the PR have responded to my provisional 
decision. So, in the absence of anything new to consider here, Ive no reason to vary from 
my provisional findings in reaching a final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman