DRN-2557969
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that his title was changed on his account with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax (Halifax) without his authority.
What happened
Mr K has an alternative title, which he uses in the normal course of his life  including on his 
account with Halifax.  But Ill be referring to him as Mr K in this decision.
In May 2020, Mr K received a text from Halifax telling him a new card was being sent to him.  
Mr K hadnt ordered another card.  But hed been the victim of fraud a few months earlier.  
So he was concerned that this may have happened again.
Mr K checked his account online and found his title had been changed from the one he 
usually uses to Mr.  Hed not made that change.  So he complained to Halifax.  He asked 
them to change his title back and to explain why the change had been made when hed not 
authorised it.
When Halifax replied, they told Mr K the change was triggered by renewal of an insurance 
product he also had with them.  They said his original application had been completed with 
Mr as his title.  And that had prompted a change in all of his products.  
Halifax confirmed theyd changed his title back.  And they paid him £75 for the trouble Mr K 
had been caused.
Mr K brought his complaint to us.  He didnt accept Halifaxs explanation of what had 
triggered the change.  He said hed applied for the product in 2019 so couldnt understand 
why there wasnt an issue until 2020.  And he told us that he didnt think the compensation 
Halifax had paid was sufficient.  He said hed had the same issue with another bank, which 
had paid him £200.  He thought Halifax should make a payment of the same value.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Halifax needed to do anything 
more to resolve it.  She noted that Halifax had changed Mr Ks title back to what it should be.  
Theyd explained what had triggered the change.  And she thought the compensation theyd 
offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ks concern.  A few months before this happened, hed been a victim of 
fraud.  Its easy to see why he would think it had happened again.
But Halifax have explained why his title was changed.  In reply to a question from our 
investigator, they said that, although the insurance policy was changed to show Mr Ks 
correct title, their system defaulted back to the original information on renewal.  I think that 
explanation is reasonable.
I know Mr K thinks Halifax shouldve paid him a higher amount of compensation for what 
happened.  I understand hes based this on the fact that the other bank hed had this issue 
with had paid him £200.  
Theres no tariff for compensation.  Its up to each bank to offer what it thinks is reasonable 
for the mistakes they identify.  So the fact that Mr K received a higher sum from another 
bank doesnt - of itself - make what Halifax has paid too low.
Our service awards compensation if were satisfied that a businesss mistake means a 
consumer has lost out financially.  And we can make an award if the mistake has caused a 
consumer trouble and upset.  But we may decide that, if a business has put their mistake 
right, they dont need to do anything else. 
Mr K hasnt lost out financially from Halifaxs mistake.  So the only thing I have to consider is 
the level of compensation Halifax have paid him for trouble and upset.
Ive seen that Mr K contacted Halifax when he noticed his title had been changed.  And Ive 
seen a second email he sent two days later, confirming the title on his account had been put 
right.  Im satisfied from this that, when the matter was brought to their attention, Halifax 
correctly it quickly.
It took Halifax longer to provide Mr K with an explanation about how this had happened.  But 
thats not unreasonable.  The answer wasnt immediately to hand  Halifax had to 
interrogate their system to see what had gone on before writing to Mr K.
So  although they did make a mistake  I dont think Halifax shouldve done any more to 
correct it than they did.  If Id have been asked to make a decision, and those were the only 
factors to consider, Id have been minded not to direct that Halifax should pay Mr K anything.
But theres an additional factor here.  Mr K had quite recently been the victim of fraud.  I 
accept this means that the change in his title would worry him more than it might otherwise 
have done.  
I think for that reason it was appropriate for Halifax to compensate Mr K.  But I think the £75 
theyve already paid him is sufficient to do that.  So Im not saying they should do anything 
else to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman