DRN-2897498
The complaint
Mr G and Ms R have complained about the way that Ageas Insurance Limited handled a 
claim under their home insurance policy for accidental damage to an underground pipe and 
the settlement it made.  
What happened
In mid-September 2020 Mr G and Ms R made a claim to Ageas for damage caused by an 
underground leak. Ageas arranged for a supplier to inspect the damage. The supplier said 
that further investigations were needed.
On 9 November Ageass drainage contractor reported that there was a blocked drain which 
they couldnt unblock using a high pressure water jet.  Mr G says as a result of the blockage 
water backed up in a rainwater drain. They replaced a damaged section of pipework in the 
rainwater drain. But there was still a blockage in a different section of pipework. Ageas said 
the foul drainage system was entering into the surface water system. It thought that was a 
poor design as foul drainage systems should only connect to main sewers. It said this 
damage wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr G and Ms R said they arranged for a contractor to inspect the pipework and they found 
that the pipe connector was partially broken with debris blocking the pipe. They unblocked it. 
Mr G asked Ageas to pay for the trace and access work and reinstatement. He said hed pay 
for the actual repair himself. Ageas said it wouldnt pay as the work wasnt required to rectify 
accidental damage to the pipework.
Mr G and Ms R brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She 
recommended that Ageas should reconsider the claim relating to the foul drainage and if 
after doing so it made a cash settlement to Mr G, it should add interest at 8%. She also 
thought Ageas should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the delay in obtaining the drainage 
report.
As Ageas didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Ageas to decline the part of the claim relating to the 
blocked pipe under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr G and Ms Rs policy covers the 
cost of repairing accidental damage to underground service pipes/drains which theyre 
responsible for. The policy doesnt cover cleaning blocked drains unless the blockage is 
caused by damage to the fabric of the drain. Accidental damage isnt defined within the 
policy booklet. I think its fair to consider this as unforeseen and unintentional damage. Its 
generally accepted that a blocked pipe would fall within this definition.
Ageass drainage contractor said there was a blocked drain and also that the foul drain 
connected into the surface water system. But they didnt say that the blockage had been 
caused by the fact that the foul drainage connected into the surface water system. 
Mr G has provided a photo of the collapsed clay pipe connector. The photo shows the pipe 
was blocked with debris. I think the collapse of the manhole would have been unforeseen 
and unintentional damage.
Mr G has explained that the blockage in the underground pipe was about 4 metres away 
from the section where the foul drainage connects to the surface water system. I note that 
the property was built about 70 years ago and that there havent been any previous 
problems while Mr G and Ms R have been living there. So on balance I dont think that 
Ageas has shown that the poor design of the drainage connection has caused the damage 
claimed for. It follows that Im satisfied its fair for me to say that Ageas reasonably needs to 
reconsider the claim.
Looking at how the claim was handled, I can see that there was a delay of about a month 
before Ageas received the drainage report from its supplier. During this time Mr G and Ms R 
were chasing Ageas for a decision on their claim and the blockage hadnt been cleared. So 
the delay would have caused them a degree of stress and inconvenience. I think 
compensation of £100 is appropriate to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused 
by this.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Ageas Insurance Limited should reconsider the claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions.
If after reconsidering the claim, Ageas Insurance Limited accepts the claim and makes a 
cash settlement, it should pay an additional 8% interest* from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
I also think Ageas Insurance Limited should pay £100 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr G and Ms R, it should tell them 
how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman