DRN-3090077
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
Mr O is represented by Mr M, but for ease Ill refer to statements made by Mr M as being 
made by Mr O.
What happened
Mr O had a car insurance policy with Watford, and when he was involved in an accident, he 
tried to make a claim on his policy. He said the third-party driver had caused the accident 
because they turned without checking first. But the third-party thinks Mr O was responsible 
and says they were indicating to turn right when Mr O tried to overtake. 
Watford initially thought the third-party driver was liable for the incident. But after the third 
partys insurer provided their side of things, Watford looked to settle the claim on a joint 
liability basis. They later accepted full responsibility for the incident and said Mr Os 
photographs showed the third party was already established in their turn when Mr Os 
vehicle collided with them. They said it was unsafe for him to attempt the overtaking 
manoeuvre when he did. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr O brought his complaint to our service. He says:
Watford didnt take the full evidence he provided into account,
they got the point of impact wrong and didnt investigate the claim properly,
they didnt ask him to provide a witness statement,
they should have had his car inspected by an engineer,
they should have visited the site of the incident, which would have shown the third 
partys version of events was untrue, and 
they discriminated against him.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said there was no CCTV 
footage to support what Mr O said happened and thought Watfords decision to accept 
liability for the accident was fair. But Mr O didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons.
In his complaint to our service, Mr O raised concerns of discrimination by Watford during the 
claims process. But as this hadnt been raised with them previously, they confirmed they 
would investigate it separately and issue their final response directly to Mr O. As such, I 
havent considered it here. If Mr O is unhappy with their response on the matter and would 
like us to investigate it, hell need to raise it as a separate complaint.
Id also like to reassure Mr O that I have considered all the information and evidence 
provided by him and by Watford, but I have not specifically addressed all the points he 
raised. Rather, I have focused on those which were key in reaching my decision. 
The role of this service isnt to decide who was responsible for the incident, thats something 
a court would do. Instead we look at whether Watford carried out a fair investigation and 
reached a reasonable conclusion. I accept that there were some errors in their investigation 
of the claim, but I dont think that means it wasnt carried out fairly. Mistakes can happen, 
and while I can understand why this might cause Mr O to have concerns about the 
investigation, ultimately, Im satisfied their mistakes havent impacted the overall outcome of 
his claim.
Mr Os policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says Watford are 
entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim.... It also says they can admit 
liability, for the costs covered under this Policy, on behalf of You or any person claiming 
Indemnity under the Policy.
 
This means Watford can handle a claim however they see fit. Even though it might mean 
they make a decision Mr O doesnt agree with, they are still allowed to do so. That said, we 
would expect them to settle a claim in a fair and reasonable way, taking into account all the 
facts and evidence provided by both sides. I think they did, and Ill explain why.
Mr O and the third-party driver both think the other is responsible for the incident. In cases 
like this it can be difficult to know exactly how the accident came about and therefore who 
was responsible. When there is little independent evidence available such as CCTV footage 
or a witness to say what occurred, insurers will normally base their decision on what they 
think is most likely to have happened. 
Watford said there was no evidence to support what Mr O said happened, and based on the 
images they thought he attempted to overtake when it was unsafe to. They acknowledge   
Mr O wasnt given the opportunity to provide a written statement when he should have been. 
Although a written statement wasnt initially taken from Mr O, he explained his side of things 
when he first reported the incident and I think Watford considered this in their investigation. 
They later gave him the chance to provide a written statement, but after reviewing it, they 
didnt think it changed their view. They still thought the damage to the third-partys car 
indicated they were established in their turn when the accident happened. And looking at the 
photographs from the scene, I dont think what theyve said is unreasonable. 
Mr O thinks Watford failed to properly consider the impact of the collision on his car. Its up 
to them as the insurer to decide how much weight they can place on the different pieces of 
evidence they have. And they thought that, had the damage to the third partys car been 
nearer the front, then they may have argued a split liability, but as the damage was to the 
rear of the car, they believed Mr O was at fault. I find what theyve said reasonable and I 
dont think it means they didnt consider the damage to his car. 
He also says Watford should have had his car inspected by an engineer, and they shouldve 
visited the site of the accident. But I dont think they had to. Watford are entitled to decide 
whether they think a physical inspection is necessary. And in this case, Im not persuaded it 
would have changed the outcome of the claim. They said they carried out an online search of the area and reviewed the photographs showing the damage to both cars and of the site 
of the accident. Having reviewed them, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for them to 
rely on the photographs in making their decision. 
Mr O also said that Watford had it wrong when they said the damage to his car was on the 
drivers side. I agree this was stated incorrectly in their letter to him, however their notes on 
the claim accurately state the damage was to his nearside bumper. Our investigator also 
raised this point with them, and they confirmed their decision was based on the area of 
impact to the third partys car and the positioning of both cars following the accident. So, 
while I agree there was an error in their letter, Im satisfied it didnt impact the outcome 
theyve reached.
Watford concluded that with the evidence available, it would be difficult to defend the claim in 
court. As legal proceedings can be costly, its not unusual for insurers to settle the claim if 
they dont think they would be able to successfully defend it in court. Theyll also have 
experience of how cases like this usually fair before a judge, so I dont find their decision to 
settle the claim was unfair as they thought it had little chance of success if taken to court.
 
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible for the incident, it is to 
decide whether Watford made a fair decision. I appreciate Mr O feels Watfords handling of 
his claim was biased but I havent seen any evidence of this. And I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr O, but ultimately, Im satisfied they considered all the evidence available 
before settling the claim. And I cant say their decision to accept liability for the incident was 
unfair, so I dont think Watford need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman