DRN-4261124
The complaint
Miss M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wouldnt refund money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Miss M says:
Miss M is an international student studying in the UK. On 31 October 2022, she got a call
from someone purporting to be calling on behalf of HMRC. They told her she had committed
tax fraud and owed £1,890. She validated the callers number as being from the criminal
court in Birmingham. The caller said she could either go to court or pay the amount due.
They threatened Miss M with arrest if she didnt comply. Miss M was new to the UK and
didnt understand how the tax authorities and government departments worked. She felt very
stressed and worried about the allegations and believed the story she was told.
Miss M made a payment of £1,890 from another bank account. The caller then sent a letter
from HMRC which said there were four alleged charges, plus an arrest warrant. The caller
said more funds were needed. She paid a further amount of £720 from another bank
account and then £980 and £900 from her Revolut account as shown:
Date/time Amount
31 October 2022  10.54 £980
31 October 2022  11.18 £900
The payments were to a named personal account. She paid a total of £4,490 from three
bank accounts. The callers then said the allegations were taken down but then asked for
another £998  which she didnt have and didnt pay.
Miss M contacted Revolut just after the scam on 31 October 2022  at 12.13. She also
reported the scam to Action Fraud.
Miss M said the other two banks refunded the money paid from those accounts - £2,610. But
 Revolut had refused to refund the payments. She couldnt see why two other banks would
refund the money, but Revolut wouldnt  as it was all part of the same scam. She said that
surely all UK banks operate the same way  so Revolut should also refund her.
Miss M said she has lost a lot of the money she needed to fund her studies in the UK. She
said she may have to return home without the refund of the money she lost.
What Revolut say:
Revolut said they did all they could to protect Miss M. They confirmed the beneficiary to be a
valid account holder at the recipient bank. Miss M then proceeded with the transfers. She
confirmed that she trusted the beneficiary  after Revolut had warned her that she could
potentially be a victim of fraud. Before making the payment, she was advised the beneficiary
would receive the money in seconds. By the time Miss M contacted Revolut about the scam,
the payments had been made.
Revolut said Miss M authorised the payments via biometric authentication and/or a
passcode in the app.
Revolut said theyd contacted the recipient bank  and were told no funds remained in the
beneficiarys account. So no money could be repaid.
So  Revolut didnt refund the money or uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Our investigation so far:
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Miss M
authorised the payments. The payments werent unusual when compared to the normal
activity in Miss Ms account. The payee details matched the account Miss M was sending the
funds to. Revolut had considered the payments to have some risk and warned Miss M about
a possible scam. But Miss M still went ahead with the payments. Revolut contacted the
recipient bank, but the funds had been withdrawn before Miss M notified Revolut of the
scam.
Miss M didnt agree. She argued again that she couldnt see how two other banks refunded
the money she paid from those accounts, but Revolut wouldnt. She asked that an
ombudsman look at her complaint  so it has come to me to make a final decision.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Miss M has lost money in a cruel scam. She was new to the UK  as a
student studying here. So  I can understand how stressful and upsetting this must have
been for her in those circumstances.
Its not in question that she authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So
although Miss M didnt intend for the money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of his account, Miss M is presumed to be liable for 
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Miss M held 
with Revolut, where a valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to 
follow the instructions that Miss M provides.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut as an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
So  I looked at Miss Ms complaint in the light of this.
Refunds from other banks:
I will address that first  as Miss M has made the argument that Revolut should refund the
money as the other banks have done. But - we look at each case in the circumstances of
what happened. Id also note that the other two banks concerned - are signatories to theLending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). This code
allows for refunds in cases of scams under certain criteria. But here  Revolut arent
signatories to the Code, and therefore we cant look at Miss Ms complaint with the Code in
mind.
Having explained that - I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in their
dealings with Miss M when she made the payment, or whether they should have done more
than they did. I have considered the position carefully.
I looked at Revoluts evidence. Revolut say they matched the beneficiary set up by Miss M
with the account holder at the recipient bank  but I think that of itself, this didnt help to
protect Miss M.
Revolut intervened in the first payment of £980. Miss M had chosen the purpose of the
payment as a safe account transfer. This shouldve been a red flag to Revolut  as there
are few reasons why a customer would make a valid payment to a safe account.
They sent to Miss M a message which said: This transfer can be a scam. Our system
identified this transfer as suspicious and put it to pending. Your transfer is riskier than 99.2%
of all Revolut transfers.
I can see that before the payments were made, Miss M was asked to confirm whether she
knew and trusted the beneficiary. The confirmation said Review transferdo you know and
trust this payee? If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to get your money
back.fraudsters can impersonate others.. Miss M then confirmed she knew and trusted
the beneficiary and continued.
In the app, Miss M was then shown several stories to inform her about potential scams. The
first two screens showed Victims lose millions every year and fraudsters are
professionals. Miss M was then shown a screen headed what is the purpose of this
payment? One option was tax authority request. But Miss M then chose safe account
scam and not the real purpose. So  she didnt read the text on tax scams. And then  Miss
M confirmed the payment.
Revolut have argued that as Miss M chose the wrong reason for the payment  then she is
liable for the loss. But I dont think thats a reasonable argument in the circumstances of this
case. Revolut themselves said the payment was riskier than 99.2% of all payments they see.
And  a payment to a safe account is usually typical of a scam, and this, added to Revoluts
own risk analysis, amounted to a red flag. And therefore, Revolut shouldve contacted Miss
M to question her about what was going on. If they had, I think its reasonable to assume the
scam wouldve been uncovered and prevented.
We asked Miss M why she chose the safe account option. She told us that the scammer
coached her to do so. I think its reasonable to say that had Revolut called Miss M, then this
wouldve been revealed and the scam stopped.
The next payment of £900 went through without further checks. I asked Revolut about this
second payment, as I wanted to know why it wasnt also stopped. They told us that because
it was to the same payee as the first one, and Miss M had confirmed that could be made,
Revolut considered the second payment to be a safe one. But  if Revolut had called Miss M
about the first payment, and stopped the scam at that time, Im persuaded that the second
payment would also have been stopped.
I also noted that between 11 July 2022 and when the fraud took place on 31 October 2022 
the account was dormant with no activity and a balance of only £10. So  I think its
reasonable to say that the payments of £980 and £900 were unusual for Miss M to make.The two payments in question were preceded by transfers into the account  made by Miss
M  of £990 and £900. And then, minutes later, the two payments of £980 and then £900
were made to the scammer. The account was drained of funds (except for £10) And  the
payee was a new one, being set up by Miss M for the first time.
These two latter points of themselves, dont mean that Revolut shouldve intervened
because the amounts were low. But given the responses Miss M gave to Revoluts
messages, there was enough going on with these payments for Revolut to have been
concerned.
Therefore, Im persuaded that Revolut shouldve intervened in the first payment, and had
they done so, both payments wouldve not been made.
Recovery:
Firms such as Revolut have a responsibility to try to get funds back where a scam has taken
place. I can see that Miss M contacted Revolut on 31 October 2022 at 12.13. Revolut
contacted the beneficiary bank at 4am on 1 November 2022. Ive seen the correspondence
between Revolut and the recipient bank  and all the funds were withdrawn by 12.11 on 31
October 2022  which was before Miss M contacted Revolut. So  there were no funds left
to be returned.
Miss M has been the victim of a cruel scam. And in the circumstance of this complaint, I
think Revolut shouldve intervened in the first payment and if theyd done so, the scam
wouldve unravelled and both payments wouldve been prevented. Miss M told us that the
money was transferred to her Revolut account from her bank current account. So  my
provisional decision is that Revolut should refund £1,880, plus interest at 8% per annum
simple from 31 October 2022 to the date of settlement. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Miss M and Revolut agreed with the provisional decision. I now need to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss M and Revolut agreed with the provisional decision, my final decision is in line 
with it. (continued)My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Refund £1,880, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from 31 October 2022 to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman