DRN-3821653
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how FCE Bank Plc  trading as Ford Credit (FCE)  treated her when 
she asked for support due to the impacts of COVID-19. And she says FCE also recorded 
incorrect information on her credit file.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs R entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE to acquire a car. 
She was due to pay 38 monthly repayments of £323.45 and a final repayment of £7,852 if 
she wanted to keep the car.
Unfortunately Mrs R got into financial difficulty due to the impacts of COVID-19. She says 
around March 2020 she spoke to FCE after a long wait, and it agreed to a payment deferral 
for March, April and May 2020. She then says she received arrears letters from FCE in April 
2020.
Mrs R says she then contacted FCE again in May 2020 to discuss the situation. She said it 
was agreed for another payment deferral to be put in place for June, July and August 2020. 
But, in September 2020 she says FCE notified her she was in arrears.
Mrs R says she contacted FCE in September 2020 and it told her she needed to make a 
payment of £751.51 to bring her account up to date. It then calculated Mrs Rs ongoing 
payments as £375.61 from October 2020.
In March 2022, Mrs R says she decided to change the car for another make and model. She 
says she went to a dealer, but was declined finance. Mrs R says she found out FCE had 
recorded missed payments on her credit file from March 2020 to March 2022. It appears 
FCE agreed to amend Mrs Rs credit file.
Mrs R says she then acquired a new car and settled the finance with FCE. But, she says she 
then received a letter saying she was in arrears, which FCE accepted was their error.
Mrs R complained to FCE. It issued its final response in May 2022. In summary, it said a 
payment deferral was agreed for two months and then a further two months, for March to 
June 2020. So, it said the payment in September was due for August and September 2020. 
It said it accepted it shouldve called Mrs R to take a payment. It also confirmed the late 
payment marker had been removed from her file. It offered Mrs R £250.
Mrs R was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. She said, in 
summary, that a six month payment deferral had been arranged. She said it had caused her 
financial difficulty when she had to make up the two months payments as shed gone 
overdrawn. She said the contact from FCE about the account had caused distress at a time 
she was supporting an ill family member. She said shed had to wait two hours on hold to 
talk to FCE. She said being declined car finance elsewhere had caused her embarrassment. 
And she said the situation had caused her emotional and physical stress. And she told us 
another late payment marker had been added to her credit file in April 2022.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he thought it was likely a four 
month payment deferral had been agreed with Mrs R. But, he said when FCE spoke to her in 
September 2020 about the arrears it shouldve been more understanding of the situation. He 
said FCE shouldve considered backdating the payment deferral to cover the two months 
repayments, rather than making Mrs R pay double. He said this was in line with guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to consumers in financial 
difficulty due to COVID-19.
Our investigator also said Mrs R had shown the payment of £751.51 had taken her further 
into her overdraft. But, he said from reviewing her statements this didnt appear to have 
caused other payments to be rejected.
Our investigator said the FCA guidance stated that payment deferrals shouldnt have a 
negative impact on consumers credit records, so FCE shouldnt have added the negative 
information. And he said he thought this led to the situation where Mrs R was declined car 
finance elsewhere. He also said he thought the later letter saying that Mrs Rs account was 
in arrears was due to a cross over between payments being made and the finance being 
settled by the dealer. 
Finally, he also said the late payment marker from April 2022 was recorded in error, although 
FCE had now amended this.
Our investigator said he didnt think £250 was enough to reflect what happened and asked 
FCE to increase this to £350.
FCE got in touch and said it accepted the outcome.
Mrs R was unhappy with this opinion. She said she received letters chasing arrears 
periodically for two years. She said the incorrect information was still on her credit file. And 
she said she thought £350 was not enough to reflect what had happened given she had to 
pay out for two months repayments from her overdraft.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
I asked Mrs R to confirm the current situation with her credit file. She says this has now been 
put in order.
I then sent Mrs R and FCE a provisional decision on 14 November 2022. My findings from 
this decision were as follows:
Mrs R complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mrs Rs complaint against FCE.
Given FCE has accepted the investigators view, it doesnt seem that what went wrong here 
is in dispute. So, Im not going to go into too much detail here. But, Ill summarise my 
thoughts on the key facts for completeness. 
I agree with our investigator that when FCE spoke to Mrs R in September 2020 it couldve 
done more to support her. Whatever the reason for the confusion about when the payment 
deferrals had been applied, pragmatically, it  seems to me it wouldve been reasonable to 
backdate the payment deferral for the period Mrs R thought was already covered. 
This wouldve meant  she didnt have to pay two months worth of repayments for which she had to use her overdraft. Mrs R has explained this made what was already a difficult 
financial situation due to COVID-19 worse.
I also agree having the incorrect information recorded on Mrs Rs credit file wouldve been 
upsetting for her and seems to have caused her embarrassment and distress when trying to 
get finance elsewhere. Mrs R has described leaving the dealer in tears because of what 
happened. While she was able to change the car it appears this issue delayed her plans 
which must have been frustrating and upsetting. Shes had to take time out to go through her 
credit record and get this updated. And I think it must have been upsetting to see her score 
drop as shes explained.
Ive also considered that Mrs R has told us she was supporting a very ill family member 
throughout this period and this situation was causing additional stress at what must have 
been an already very difficult time. Ive thought about the fact this situation carried on for a 
significant period, especially as the latest error was made in April 2022. And Mrs R has also 
described in some detail the effect this had on her personal health.
Thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied Mrs R suffered from distress and inconvenience 
because of what went wrong. I think this wouldve caused her stress at a time she was 
already suffering from financial difficulty and dealing with a very upsetting situation for her 
family. So, I think this means the situation had more of a negative effect on Mrs R than it 
might another consumer. And this situation was ongoing for a long time.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied the £250 offered by FCE isnt enough to reflect what 
happened. I think it should increase this to £500.
Ive considered that Mrs R says on multiple occasions she was waiting around two hours to 
get through to FCE at an already stressful time. Under normal circumstances I would 
consider this poor service. But, I need to consider that COVID-19 had a large impact on 
businesses and organisations such as FCE and affected their ability to provide their normal 
standards of service. So, thinking about things in the round, I dont think FCE needs to take 
action on this particular point.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. 
Mrs R and FCE got in touch and both said they accepted the provisional decision with 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all of the information on the complaint again. Having done so, I still think 
this complaint should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct FCE Bank Plc  trading as Ford 
Credit to pay Mrs R £500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman