DRN-3890477
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way IG Index Limited closed some of his trades due to insufficient 
margin in November 2021. He said he wasnt properly notified, either by email or his account 
manager, and therefore had no opportunity to add additional margin. This caused him a 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr L had a spreadbetting account with IG. In November 2021 Mr L had a short position on 
the Wall Street market which he said he had been holding for a long time. On 10 November 
2021, he said he noticed that this position had been closed and the cash balance on the 
account was removed. He said that as soon as he saw this position had been closed he 
called IG to find out what had happened, and was told that it had been closed due to 
insufficient margin. He complained that he hadnt at any point received a margin call from IG 
as would usually have been the case. 
IG looked into Mr Ls complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the terms 
of the agreement of Mr Ls account were clear that IG was not obliged to let Mr L know when 
he had insufficient margin, and this was something he was required to monitor and be aware 
of. Nevertheless, it had sent him two emails on 9 November and 10 November outlining the 
amount of margin he needed to add to keep his positions open, and crucially, what would 
happen should he not make those payments. It also said that Mr L logged into his account 
multiple times between 9 and 10 November 2021 when he wouldve seen the status of his 
account, and in particular whether he needed to add more margin or how close he was to a 
margin call. IG concluded that as he did not add the required funds, his position on the Wall 
Street market was closed. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought it was Mr Ls responsibility to manage and oversee his account, and 
the terms of the account explicitly said that IG was under no obligation to keep [Mr L] 
informed of [his] account balance and Margin required. She said that the account equity was 
viewable to Mr L on IGs platform and has such he had the information he needed. The 
investigator also said although Mr L alleged he didnt receive emails from IG about the 
margin call, she had seen copies of the emails  and was therefore satisfied they were sent. 
She therefore concluded that IG didnt need to pay Mr L any compensation and was not 
responsible for any losses. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and provided a detailed response. In summary he 
said:
The emails the investigator had referred to were not the automated email alerts of 
margin calls that are sent when there is a margin call. He said that IG had always 
sent him margin call notifications since hed had the account, except on this occasion 
in November 2021.
He said that the sending of these notifications was not optional or additional service. 
It was an essential part of the service provided by IG. He said that this wasnt a 
service just provided to him either, it was a service that IG provided to all its 
customers. 
Given these notifications had always been sent to him, he was entitled to rely on 
them as formal notification of insufficient margin, which he could then act on  and 
which he has demonstrated from his past trading that he always acted on. 
He said he never received notification of this margin call  he said that he asked IG 
to provide him copies of any emails sent to him about this, but IG told him it didnt 
have any. He said IG was unable to explain to him why a margin call wasnt issued 
on this occasion. He said that this procedure had been in place for a very long time, 
and as such, he was entitled to rely on this precedent and standard procedure. He 
said that as this procedure had failed, IG needed to take responsibility. 
He said that this was as a result of this failure that he didnt know he had insufficient 
margin, and had he known it, he wouldve acted. 
He also noted that he had a credit limit on his account of £10,000 which meant that 
he had to go into deficit of at least £10,000 before a margin call is triggered. He 
reiterated that other than the emails he had always received, the system did not 
provide any other alert of insufficient margin  so it was even more essential that IG 
send a notification. He said this failure, on this occasion, is what caused him real loss 
and damage. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm Ive read all of Mr Ls comments on his complaint, and I can understand why he 
has been left dissatisfied with the events of 10 November 2021. Although Ive read and 
considered all the comments Mr L has made, I hope he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I 
wont respond to every point individually. The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key 
issues, and provide reasons for my decision. 
In this case, Ive seen the example margin call notifications that Mr L was provided with in 
the past when his account was nearing a margin call. I understand Mr Ls point that he didnt 
receive these automatic emails  and as far as I can see, this fact is not in dispute by IG. 
Mr L says that had he received these automatic emails, he wouldve taken corrective action 
and added more margin on his account  and this wouldve avoided the losses he sustained 
as his position would not have been closed. 
However, although I can understand why Mr L was disappointed at not receiving the type of 
notification he had been accustomed to receiving, Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold IG responsible for Mr Ls trading losses due to this failure alone. 
It isnt in dispute that the terms of Mr Ls agreement required him to manage his account and 
be alert to the margin requirements of any open positions. Whilst I understand why he maintains that IG had set some sort of precedent by notifying him in the past, in my view this 
did not have the effect of altering the agreement that IG had in place with him. I say this 
primarily because IGs failure didnt prevent Mr L from knowing he had insufficient margin  
that information was clearly available from any viewing of his trading account. In my view, 
given the risk of this form of trading, how quickly prices change and how volatile certain 
markets can sometimes be, it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mr L to be monitoring his 
account on a regular basis. This means he wouldve already been alert to the unrealised 
losses on his account, and the effect these were having on the margin required to keep the 
trades open. 
Furthermore, IG has confirmed that Mr L was in fact logged in at the relevant times  and 
this therefore meant that he ought to have been aware that he was close to having 
insufficient margin. Im not persuaded it was reasonable for Mr L to have ignored this 
information simply because he had not received the usual automated emails. 
Finally, the evidence Ive seen shows that Mr L did receive two emails before his trade was 
closed. One email on 9 November 2021 saying that he needed to add £11,912.33 margin on 
the account by 3pm on 10 November 2021. And another on 10 November 2021 saying that 
Mr L needed to add £11,851 by 3pm that day or his positions will be closed if the account is 
still on margin call at this time. Whilst I acknowledge these emails were different in form to 
the automated emails hed usually receive, Im not persuaded the difference in form is 
material. Both these emails clearly notified Mr L that he had insufficient margin  explained 
what he needed to do and by when, and set out the consequences of not taking the action 
required. 
Mr L says he never received these emails  and whilst that is unfortunate, Im not persuaded 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold IG responsible for the consequences arising out of 
him not receiving these emails, given that Im satisfied they were sent. For these reasons, 
whilst I understand why Mr L has raised this complaint, Im not persuaded the losses he is 
claiming were caused by something that IG did or didnt do, and as a result, I dont consider 
it would be fair and reasonable to require it to pay any compensation to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman