DRN-3492974
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined their claim 
made on their motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs E, a named driver on Mr Es policy, accidentally added an exhaust fluid product to their 
cars cooling system, and this led to damage to the cars engine. Admiral initially declined the 
claim but then said that it would accept it if its independent assessor agreed that the damage 
was due to the exhaust fluid. The independent assessor agreed, and Admiral said it would 
pay the claim. The car was then taken to Admirals approved repairer.
But Admiral then reviewed and declined the claim as it said Mrs E had failed to protect the 
car from harm. Mr E was unhappy with this decision and that Admiral had continued to send 
correspondence to Mrs E after he had asked it not to. Admiral offered Mr E £200 
compensation for misinforming him and for sending correspondence to Mrs E by mistake. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Admiral was entitled to decline the claim by the policys terms and conditions as the car 
hadnt been protected from harm. He thought the policy didnt provide cover for accidental 
damage caused by the insured parties. But he thought Admirals claim handling had been 
poor and it had continued to correspond with Mrs E, causing trouble and upset. He thought 
Admiral should pay £200 further compensation for this. 
Admiral thought its offer of £200 compensation was fair and reasonable, but it agreed to 
increase this to £400 as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr E replied that Mrs E had added the 
wrong fluid to the cooling system by accident and this should be covered by the policy. He 
thought it was wrong for Admiral to go back on its original promise to pay the claim. He 
wanted to add further losses to his complaint against Admiral. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr E and Mrs Es frustration and upset with Admirals final decision to not 
pay their claim. I was sorry to hear of the effect the incident has had on Mrs E. 
Mr E has raised a number of legal arguments for why Admiral should deal with his claim. But 
I think these may be better considered by a court. We provide an informal, alternative 
complaint resolution service. And, whilst we are mindful of the relevant laws, we are not 
bound by them. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral replied on General Condition 3 of the policy terms and conditions to decline the 
claim. This states:
3. Care of your vehicle You and any other insured person must:
protect your vehicle from loss or damage
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy 
being cancelled.
Im satisfied that by adding exhaust fluid to the coolant system, albeit by accident, Mrs E 
wasnt taking care of the car as she wasnt protecting it from damage. Accidental damage by 
the insured isnt covered by the policy. And so I think Admiral can reasonably decide 
because of the policys terms and conditions not to accept the claim. 
But I agree that Admirals handling of the claim hasnt been fair or reasonable. It mistakenly 
relied on the misfuelling exclusion in the policy to decline the claim. It mistakenly said that it 
would cover the claim if the independent assessor agreed that the exhaust fluid had caused 
the damage. It even arranged for the car to be taken to an approved repairer. And Admiral 
mistakenly wrote to Mrs E when it had been asked not to. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Admiral told Mr E in a phone call that the reason that it had declined the claim was due to 
the care of car terms and conditions. It explained that it hadnt followed its process before 
approving the repairs. So I think explanation and its apology restores Mr Es position as far 
as its possible to do so as it shouldnt have approved the claim in the first place.
Mr E thought Admiral should honour its promise to repair the car after the independent 
assessors inspection. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr E to benefit from 
Admirals error as I think it justified its decision to reject the claim. But what I can consider is 
the effect the reversal had on Mr E and Mrs E. 
I can see that the change in decision had a considerable impact on Mr E, but especially on 
Mrs E. And I can understand their disappointment after Admiral had told them it would 
undertake the repairs. The Investigator recommended that Admiral should increase its offer 
of compensation to £400 to take into account the impact its claim handling had on Mr E and 
Mrs E and the error with its correspondence. I think thats fair and reasonable as it reflects 
the impact the errors had in keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr E £400 (in total) compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim, as its already agreed to 
do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman