DRN-2920249
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited loaded a CIFAS marker against him on the 
National Fraud Database. Hed like the marker removed and compensation for the impact 
caused to him. 
What happened
In April 2020 Starling received notification from another bank, Ill call B, that Mr O received 
fraudulent funds into his account. The report stated that Bs customer had attempted to buy 
a game via an online site Ill call F. Theyd paid Mr Os account but then couldnt get hold of 
him and the account theyd bought the game from had been deleted.
Starling restricted access to Mr Os account and carried out a review. They contacted Mr O 
and he explained he was selling computer games online via F. He explained to the bank 
hed hadnt been able to purchase the games because of his account restriction. During the 
account restriction Starling received several other reports of fraudulent funds entering his 
account.   
Starling didnt accept Mr Os explanation and decided to close his account and load a CIFAS 
marker for misuse of facility on the national fraud database. 
Mr O complained to Starling about their decision. The bank reviewed his complaint but didnt 
change their position. And refused to remove the CIFAS marker. 
Mr O didnt accept Starlings response so complained to our service. He also complained 
that he had around £400 in his account at the time of closing and he wanted to know if this 
would be returned. 
On contacting our service Mr O explained hed been carrying out drop shipping where he 
didnt have possession of the computer games, however on receiving the funds from the 
buyer hed purchase the product from wholesalers then the goods would be sent directly on 
to them. And because of the account restriction hed been unable to purchase the games or 
post them on. Mr O also explained that hed previously been using the post office to dispatch 
games, prior to Coronavirus, however due to concerns about the virus he thought it would be 
sensible to limit his visits to the store.  
Mr O also provided evidence of conversations hed had with some of the buyers, most of 
whom he explained where understanding that he was unable to post the games due to 
Coronavirus and his account restriction. And statements from friends who explained that 
Mr O didnt have any history of fraudulent activity, was an honest and genuine individual and 
theyd given him a few computer games to sell.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os case. They asked Mr O some more questions 
about how hed obtained the games, and he explained hed purchased some from charity 
shops, received some from friends and he was going to obtain more from drop shipping. 
They thought that Starling didnt have sufficient evidence to load the CIFAS marker  and 
recommended it was removed.
 
Starling didnt accept our investigators conclusions. In response they said:
A large online retailer was only able to sell games at £35 whereas Mr O was selling 
them for £20. Theres no evidence of how he could sell the goods at this price.
His sole trader account was 3 months old
Theres no evidence that anyone received items from Mr O
A second investigator looked into Mr Os case, and reached a different conclusion. Overall 
they didnt think that Starling had acted unfairly. In summary our investigator concluded that 
Starling had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when closing Mr Os 
account and holding on to his funds. He also thought that Starling had acted fairly in loading 
the CIFAS marker highlighting Mr Os failure to provide any evidence that hed purchased 
the games he was selling or had possession of any of them. Or how he was able to make a 
profit when selling them at £20. 
Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusions. In summary he said:
Hes provided evidence that he had physical copies of the computer games he was 
selling.
He never advised Starling that he was buying all of the games via drop shipping.
He explained to Starling that he was buying the games online because this was the 
easiest way to inform them  however he had many ways of getting the games 
including from free via friends and charity shops. This is how he could also sell the 
games so cheaply. 
Why would he contact the buyers to tell them of his account restriction if hed acted 
fraudulently?
If he was acting fraudulently why would he refund some of the buyers?
Before the account was blocked he didnt think hed have any problems in shipping 
the games to the buyers. The pandemic had just started and he thought people 
would understand a small delay in the games arriving.  
As Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction and returning of funds to source
In response to our second investigators view Mr O explained that hes not interested in 
complaining about Starlings decision to close his bank account or retain his funds, plus the 
withholding and returning of his funds. So I wont be considering these complaint points. 
Instead Ill be considering whether Starling acted fairly in loading a CIFAS marker against 
Mr O. 
Loading of the CIFAS marker:
Our investigator outlined the level of evidence required for Starling to load a CIFAS marker  
so I wont repeat this in detail. In summary Starling need to evidence that there are 
reasonable grounds to believe that an identified financial crime has been committed or attempted and they have clear, relevant and rigorous evidence. And that Mr O is complicit in 
the fraud. 
Its my role to assess whether Starling have sufficient evidence to meet this standard of 
proof. And having done so Im satisfied that they have. Ill explain why below: 
Mr O received his first orders for four games, of a game Ill call Z, on the 
20 March 2020. However, hes been unable to provide evidence to show that any of 
the games purchased from him were dispatched. Mr O initially explained to Starling 
that he was unable to post the games due to his account restriction and that he didnt 
dispatch them due to the pandemic. However, Mr Os account wasnt restricted until 
the 10 April 2021 which Im satisfied gave Mr O sufficient time, even during the 
pandemic, to post the games. 
Ive looked at Mr Os bank statement since the 20 March 2020 and theres evidence 
he visited a restaurant, supermarkets and cash points following the sales indicating 
he visiting local amenities. So I think its likely Mr O could have visited the post office 
to dispatch the games. 
Mr Os provided a variety of explanations for how he was going to obtain the games. 
Initially he advised Starling that he was going to obtain the games via drop shipping 
which he wasnt able to do due to the account restriction. But Mr O has been unable 
to provide any details of his drop shipping account. 
Mr O has since provided a number of other explanations for how hed already 
obtained and planned to get hold of the games, including through charity shops and 
friends. I find it surprising that Mr O has been so inconsistent in his explanation for 
how hes managed to obtain the games. Ive also look at Mr Os bank statement prior 
to the 20 March 2020 and I cant see any evidence of purchases from charity shops. 
Even if I accept that the majority of Mr Os games were given to him freely or he 
purchased them from charity shops for small amounts of money, I still need to 
understand if its likely that Mr O could purchase other games for such low prices 
using drop shipping. And if he couldnt do so why Mr O would sell them on at such 
low prices. Mr O hasnt provided any evidence of where he was buying the games 
from at such low prices. 
Mr O has provided evidence of messages he had with buyers about his account 
restriction  however all the conversations are after the initial reports were received 
by Starling and Mr Os account was restricted. Mr O advised our service he was 
waiting to send out the games in bulk, because of the pandemic, however hes not 
provided any evidence demonstrating that he informed his buyers about the planned 
delay. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr Os drop shipping account exists or hed placed orders 
for the games. In fact, Mr O initially informed Starling that he was going to purchase 
the games, via drop shipping, from a website he now accepts he set up. 
Mr Os argued that hes provided evidence he had physical copies of the games he 
was selling  however Im afraid I dont agree that the evidence hes provided shows 
this. The majority of the funds Mr O received prior to the account restriction indicated 
the buyers thought they were buying the game Z. However, in the photos Mr Os 
shared Ive only seen one photo of game Z. In conclusion Im satisfied that Starling have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of 
proof to load a CIFAS marker. For this reason I wont be asking Starling to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman