DRN-3716229
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his let property insurer Ageas Insurance Limited regarding it 
removing storm cover from his policy and, thereby, declining his claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H contacted Ageas in late August 2020 to claim for water ingress damage at a property of 
his which he lets out. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who met with Mr H and the tenant at 
the property on 15 September 2020. Based on the loss adjusters report Ageas told Mr H 
that it believed the property was in a poor condition, had been for some time and that this 
was something Mr H should have told it about when the policy, in place at the time of the 
loss, was arranged in December 2019. Ageas underwriters said that if it had been told about 
the propertys poor condition a policy would still have been offered to Mr H, but without cover 
for storm damage. Ageas, therefore, removed the storm cover and wouldnt give further 
consideration to Mr Hs claim.
Mr H complained to us. He said it wasnt true that the property had been in a poor condition.
Our Investigator noted the detail available, including that Mr Hs letting agent hadnt been 
able to assess the property for some time prior to the reported loss in August 2020. Bearing 
in mind what legislation allows Ageas to do in this type of circumstance, and given the report 
from the loss adjuster, including the comments the adjuster had recorded in the report from 
the meeting, our Investigator felt Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr H remained unhappy. He said there was no record of the tenant having reported any 
issues with the property before August 2020. The complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H is frustrated with the action Ageas has taken. But I think it has acted 
fairly and reasonably.
There is legislation that governs the sale and renewal of insurance policies. Here Ageas 
asked Mr H questions in 2019 about the property. One of which was, is the property in a 
good state of repair. Mr H said it was. 
The loss adjusters view is that is most likely not the case. The loss adjuster viewed the 
property in September 2020. His view was it had been in a poor state for some time. In that 
respect I think its of particular note that the flooring in the kitchen was reported to be soft 
and to have sunk in part (causing the tenant to move their fridge/freezer). That sort of 
damage, in particular, is not something that occurs in a matter of weeks  for example 
between the date of loss of 28 August 2020 and the adjusters visit on 15 September 2020. 
And the adjusters report also includes an explanation of the conversation he had with Mr H; 
that Mr H explained how the property had been suffering water ingress on and off for a year 
and a half, and which wasnt forestalled even by some remedial work Mr H undertook. 
Ive then thought about Mr Hs argument that the property had been in a good condition 
when the policy was arranged in 2019. The last full inspection of the property and 
photographic record of its condition dates back to 2018, around a year and a half before the 
policy was arranged. Evidence of what the property was like in May 2018, doesnt help 
establish its condition as of December 2019. Mr Hs letting agent hasnt been able to confirm 
what checks were done after that time or show any record of what was found. Mr H argues 
that if the property had been suffering damage, the tenant could have recorded that on an 
app with a view to requesting repairs. Mr H has shown that the letting agent didnt receive 
any such notification from the tenant. But Im not persuaded that doesnt mean there werent 
any issues at the property. Only that none were formerly notified by the tenant to the letting 
agent. 
So I think Ageas has done enough to show that Mr Hs property was most likely not in a 
good state of repair in 2019. And Mr H hasnt presented sufficient evidence to successfully 
challenge that. The poor condition is something Ageas would have wanted to know about 
and Mr H should have told it about; after all he was asked a question in this respect. And 
Ageas has shown evidence from its underwriting team that if it had been told about the 
propertys condition, it would have provided a policy to Mr H but without the benefit of storm 
cover. Im satisfied then that Ageas, in line with the relevant legislation, has acted fairly and 
reasonably by removing the storm cover for Mr Hs policy from December 2019. And the 
effect of removing that cover means Ageas, fairly and reasonably, has no liability for Mr Hs 
claim made in 2020 for storm damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman