DRN-3191564
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the service he received from Assurant General Insurance 
Limited (Assurant) when he made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J has insurance cover for his mobile phone as a benefit from his bank. Mr J contacted 
Assurant on 12 November 2020 to arrange a repair when his phone was damaged. Assurant 
wasnt able to repair it so it provided him with a replacement phone (the First 
Replacement). The replacement phone was delivered to Mr J on 17 November 2020.
On 15 March 2021, Mr J contacted Assurant again because the First Replacement phone 
had developed an intermittent fault. He was asked to send the phone back under warranty, 
but because Mr J needed the phone for his work, he said hed send it back in a few weeks.
On 13 April 2021, Mr J contacted Assurant again to say hed attempted to hand-deliver the 
First Replacement phone to Assurants repair centre as it was local, but they wouldnt accept 
it as it hadnt been delivered by courier. Mr J contacted Assurant who told him that delivering 
a phone in person wasnt an acceptable process.
Mr J is unhappy that his phone wasnt accepted by the repair service because hed delivered 
it in person. He says that it hadnt been made clear to him what the correct process was. Mr 
J made a complaint that Assurant says was logged. Mr J also asked to speak to a manager 
and was told a manager would phone him back.
Mr J contacted Assurant again on 14 April as he hadnt heard back from a manager. He 
spoke to the complaints department who facilitated Mr J swapping his faulty phone at the 
service centre for a replacement (the Second Replacement) on 15 April 2021.
On 16 April 2021 Mr J contacted Assurant again as hed noticed that the Second 
Replacement phone was cosmetically damaged, and the camera appeared to have been 
glued on. Assurant agreed to send a replacement (the Third Replacement). Mr J was told 
on 16 April that this would be delivered on 17 April, but it wasnt delivered until 18 April. Mr J 
then complained again to Assurant.
Assurant responded to Mr Js various complaints on 30 April 2021, partially upholding them. 
It apologised for unclear information given to him on 13 April about the time-scale for a call-
back from a manager, the number of calls hed had to make to Assurant, and the delayed 
delivery of the Third Replacement phone. For these Assurant offered Mr J £50 
compensation.
Assurant didnt uphold Mr Js complaint in so far as it related to the faults with the First 
Replacement phone as there was no evidence of it being faulty. Mr J said that the fault was 
intermittent.
After Mr J provided photos of the defects hed noticed with the Second Replacement phone, 
Assurant agreed that it didnt meet the correct standard and upheld Mr Js complaint about 
this, and agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £100, which was paid to him.
Mr J also complained that the delivery address provided by Assurant for the return of his 
phone by post was wrong and that if hed used this address his phone mightve gone astray. 
Assurant has explained that the repair centre had moved locations. The old address featured 
on the warranty repair letter Mr J had been sent on 15 March 2021 before the move. When 
he came to send his phone off some weeks later, the address had changed. Assurant says 
that its correspondence was updated following the move, and arrangements were made that 
any items addressed to the old address would be delivered to the new one.
As to Mr Js complaint that he hadnt been able to hand-deliver the First Replacement phone 
to Assurants new repair centre, Assurant has explained that this is a highly secure building 
that didnt have a public delivery office, and wouldnt be able to accept deliveries from 
customers especially during the current Covid-19 climate. Mr J has said this isnt the case 
and hed been able to enter the gate and walk up to the delivery area. Assurant has also 
said that the phone would need to be checked in with the relevant paperwork, which Mr J 
may not have had if hed just walked in from the street. 
 
Mr J argues that it wasnt clear from Assurants own correspondence that it wasnt possible 
to drop off phones at its service centres.
Assurant says that its warranty repair letter advises customers that they can use its free 
Drop Off Service, and there are a number of shops in Mr Js local area he could have visited 
to do this rather than going in person directly to its warehouse. The letter also states:
If you cant use the [courier] Drop Off service:
We understand that the drop off service is not suitable or available for some customers. 
If this is the case then you can make your own arrangements to send your package to 
us but we recommend using an insured service such as Royal Mail Special Delivery. If 
you choose to send your package to us using a non-insured service, please be aware 
that your insurance policy does not cover the cost of sending your package to us or for 
any loss incurred by a third party. 
Mr J says he interprets this to mean he can hand-deliver his phone. Assurant doesnt agree 
that this is a reasonable interpretation as send implies that one is using a service to deliver 
the goods. It doesnt say send or deliver.
In his Complaint Form Mr J has also complained that he made a complaint to Assurant on 13 
April 2021, but this wasnt actioned. It was only after hed contacted Assurant again some 
weeks later to ask for a final response letter that his complaint was actioned. He also 
complains that when he spoke again to another claims handler, the claims handler was 
unprofessional and rude, and that he provided Mr J with incorrect information in informing 
him that he had to send his phone to the repair centre via an insured method, which Mr J 
says is untrue.
 
Im unable to address this particular complaint by Mr J as it is not within the jurisdiction of 
this service to address complaints about complaint handling because any such complaint is 
not about a financial service. Both the FCA Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules and the courts 
[R (Mazarona Properties Ltd. V Financial Ombudsman Service (2017) EWHC 1135 (Admin)] 
limit this services jurisdiction to the handling of complaints about financial services or any 
ancillary activity carried on by a business in connection with the provision of financial 
services. A complaint about complaint handling isnt a complaint about a financial service, 
and so falls outside our jurisdiction.
Mr J says that the delay in having his phone repaired in April 2021 caused him to have to 
use 10 days annual leave and in lieu time as he couldnt be without a working phone 
because of the on call requirements of his job. Mr J considers that the £100 offered by Assurant is unacceptable, and he wants Assurant to make it clear for the benefit of others 
that delivery for repair can only be through a courier.
Mr J isnt satisfied with Assurants response to his various complaints, so he brought them to 
this service. Our investigators view was that Assurant had dealt with Mr Js claim in 
accordance with the terms of his policy and that the compensation of £100 that Assurant has 
paid him was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr J doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that his complaints be 
considered by an ombudsman, so theyve been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J has made a number of complaints, and Im satisfied that Assurant has dealt with these 
fairly.  
It accepted that when Mr J first called it on 13 April 2021 he was advised incorrectly 
by its agent, and that his expectations as to when hed receive a call back from a 
manager hadnt been managed. It took account of the number of calls Mr J had had 
to make to Assurant. It also accepted that the delivery of his Third Replacement 
phone had been delayed. It has paid Mr J £50 compensation for this inconvenience 
which I consider to be reasonable.
After Mr J had provided evidence, it accepted that the Second Replacement phone 
was not of acceptable quality. Mr J received £50 compensation for this, which I also 
consider to be reasonable.
It has explained why the warranty claim letter Mr J referred to included an address 
that was not the address of Assurants repair facility at the time that Mr J attempted 
to hand deliver his First Replacement phone. I think this was a reasonable 
explanation.
It has explained why it doesnt accept hand-delivered packages to its repair facility, 
and I think this is a reasonable explanation. The fact that Mr J was able to enter the 
site doesnt detract from what I consider is a reasonable restriction. It isnt part of this 
services role to tell a company how it should run its business, so I cant say that 
Assurant has adopted an unreasonable policy about how returns are to be made.
Im also satisfied that the wording in Assurants warranty repair letter detailing how 
returns are to be made, and which Ive quoted above, is quite clear. It refers to 
sending a package. It makes no reference to delivering by hand. I dont accept Mr Js 
argument that sending includes delivery by hand.
Im also taking account of the timeframe surrounding Mr Js claim. He has complained that 
he was without a fully functioning phone for an unnecessary amount of time. His First 
Replacement phone had worked for four months before he reported an intermittent fault. But 
Mr J then left it for nearly a month before attempting to have it repaired by hand delivering it 
to Assurant on 13 April 2021. He received his Second Replacement on 15 April by way of an 
on the door swap, reported this cosmetically damaged on 16 April, and received the Third 
Replacement on 18 April. Assurants warranty return letter states that it aims to repair or 
replace a phone within 3 working days, which it did in Mr Js case. I therefore dont consider that Assurant is responsible for Mr J being without a fully functioning phone for an 
unnecessary amount of time, as Mr J claims.
I acknowledge that Mr J wouldve been very frustrated by the process he had to go through 
to get a suitable replacement phone under his policy. He says that this affected his ability to 
earn, and that he had to use annual leave and accrued in lieu time to be taken off the on-
call system at his workplace. Ive looked at Mr Js policy and it doesnt cover any loss or 
profit, opportunity, goodwill or similar losses. We just cover the mobile phone, unauthorised 
network charges and accessories. So any financial loss that Mr J may have suffered isnt 
covered by his policy.
I also have to take into account whether, and to what extent, Assurant was at fault here 
beyond those complaints that it has accepted, and for which it has already paid Mr J £100 
compensation.
Mr J has said in response to our investigators view that the problems he encountered 
wouldnt have occurred if Assurant didnt send out inadequate devices as replacements. 
Im not in a position to say what caused Mr Js First Replacement phone to have an 
intermittent fault, nor why his Third Replacement phone has subsequently developed an 
intermittent fault. But these may not be faults that were present, or which couldve been 
identified by Assurant, when the phones were supplied to Mr J. So I cant say that they were 
responsible for them. 
As to the Second Replacement phone, once Assurant had been provided with evidence of 
the defect with the camera, it accepted that it wasnt of the required standard, and it was 
replaced within two days, with compensation for the fact that it wasnt replaced the next day. 
I consider that Assurant dealt with that issue fairly.
My conclusion is that Assurant has addressed Mr Js various complaints fairly and 
reasonably. It provided a replacement phone immediately in the case of the Second 
Replacement and within 48 hours in the case of the Third Replacement. I consider that the 
compensation paid by Assurant for the failings it has accepted is reasonable and in line with 
the level of compensation this service might have required it to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman