DRN-2873707
The complaint
Mrs L, Mrs G and Mr L, as trustees of the J Trust, complain that Sesame Limited gave 
unsuitable advice to the trustees, which has created a second trust and leaves them unable 
to access funds that were to be held in the original will trust for its beneficiaries.
What happened
On the late Mr Ls death, his will created a discretionary trust which provided for a legacy of 
the Inheritance Tax (IHT) nil rate band (then £263,000) to be given to the trustees. The 
trustees of the will were the late Mr Ls wife - Mrs L; his daughter - Mrs G and his son - Mr L.
The late Mr Ls estate was worth approximately £250,000, but this included his interest in the 
matrimonial home, worth £120,000. Mrs L was advised by her solicitors to purchase her late 
husbands half share of the property from the trust, which meant that all of the trust fund 
would be represented by cash. Mrs L accepted this advice and £250,000 was left in the 
solicitors client account to be used to satisfy the legacy due to the trustees.
The trustees sought investment advice from a representative of a business, which for 
simplicity, I will call Sesame throughout this decision. On 30 January 2006 the advisor 
produced a suitability report, recommending that Mrs L invest £240,000 into a Sterling 
investment bond and to write the bond into trust, using a discounted gift trust (DGT).
The report noted that the purpose of this recommendation was to provide Mrs L with a 
monthly income of 5% of the total value (equating to £1,000) for her lifetime. Upon her death 
the remaining funds were to be paid to the beneficiaries - Mrs G and Mr L, who were also the 
trustees.
In 2012 the adviser recommended the bond be encashed and the proceeds, £165,000, were 
reinvested into another Sterling investment bond within a DGT. The same income of £1,000 
per month was to be paid to Mrs L.
In 2020, Mrs G required access to some of the funds. However, she was informed it wasnt 
possible to access the funds until Mrs L passed away. 
The trustees were concerned the advice provided may not have been suitable. After 
speaking to an independent adviser, they realised that Sesame had treated Mrs L as the 
settlor, advising her to invest the funds as if they were her own, rather than advising the 
trustees of the will trust about how to invest the funds. The trustees were also concerned 
that the investment was too high risk for them. They added that the arrangement in 2012 
triggered chargeable gains because the income being paid to Mrs L was more than 5% of 
the sum invested. So, they complained.
Sesame agreed that the investment was too high risk and that the switch of investments in 
2012 couldnt be justified. But it said Mrs L hadnt suffered any tax consequences as a result. 
This was because although the funds were placed into a new trust, Mrs L had survived 
seven years so they were outside of her estate for IHT purposes. It also said that although 
the arrangement in 2012 increased the income to 7% and had caused the issue of 
chargeable gain certificates, Mrs L was not a higher rate tax-payer, so hadnt suffered a 
financial loss. To compensate Mrs L for the loss resulting from the unsuitable investment, 
Sesame offered Mrs L redress based on a low risk benchmark, which equalled £61,397.36.
The trustees referred their complaint to our service. They werent prepared to accept the 
offer because it didnt address the main issue, which was that the trustees couldnt access 
the capital because of the DGT arrangement. Furthermore, they couldnt stop the income 
being paid to Mrs L, despite it no longer being needed, which would reduce the capital value 
over time. And in fact it was now adding to Mrs Ls estate. They also questioned whether this 
had had an impact on the tax due because of the chargeable gains.
Our investigator ultimately upheld the complaint  he was satisfied that Sesames adviser 
was aware of the existence of the will trust and that the funds to be invested were trust 
funds, not Mrs Ls own funds. So, he didnt think the DGT was suitable as a second trust was 
not required, and it meant that the funds held under the will trust could not be accessed by 
the beneficiaries as intended. He invited Sesame to suggest a way of putting things right. He 
also thought that Sesame should recalculate the redress it had previously offered to bring it 
up to date and that Sesame should pay £400 to the trustees for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Sesame agreed to recalculate the redress as proposed by the investigator but it didnt think it 
needed to do any more to put things right. It said the purpose of the trust was always to 
provide an income for Mrs L, not to provide access to the capital for the other trustees. It 
also said it was satisfied that the bond had residual value that could be made available at the 
discretion of the trustees and it didnt think the trustees had been disadvantaged in terms of 
taxation.
As Sesame disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. I informed 
both sides that I intended to ask Sesame to cover the reasonable costs the trustees incurred 
to seek independent financial, legal and/or tax advice to enable them to wind up the DGT 
and to reflect the original will trust arrangements as far as possible. I thought that this was 
likely to result in tax charges to Mrs L or the trustees, and I thought that Sesame should 
cover any avoidable tax charges that arose as a result of dismantling the trust that would not 
have otherwise arisen had the funds been invested suitably within the will trust. I thought 
Sesames offer in respect of the unsuitable investment was otherwise fair.
Sesame didnt agree as it thought I was asking it to write a blank cheque and the proposal 
left the matter open ended. It asked for a finite redress figure to be reached by allowing the 
trustees to seek advice so I could take a view on whether the costs were reasonable.
The trustees also didnt agree. They didnt think the burden of finding the legal solution 
should be placed on them given it was Sesames mistake that caused the problem. The 
trustees asked what would happen if no legal solution could be found. They also asked what 
liability Sesame would have if HMRC imposed any penalties in future. The trustees added 
that the extra income placed into Mrs Ls estate, which potentially increased her own IHT 
liability, hadnt been addressed. They also wanted a clean settlement to bring the matter to 
a close.
As no agreement could be reached, Im now providing my final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The suitability of the DGT
Based on the evidence Ive seen, which includes correspondence between the trustees 
solicitor and the adviser at Sesame from 2005 and 2006, Im satisfied that Sesames adviser 
was fully aware of the discretionary trust created by Mr Ls will when he gave Mrs L advice. 
Im also satisfied that he knew the funds that the trustees were seeking investment advice on 
represented the late Mr Ls estate, which were held within the discretionary trust, and were 
not Mrs Ls personal funds.
Despite this, the adviser treated Mrs L as the settlor; his advice aimed to mitigate her IHT 
liability, whilst providing for investment growth and income. This is why he recommended a 
DGT. However, the funds were in fact given to the trustees upon Mr Ls death. So, the 
trustees didnt need advice to mitigate IHT, instead they simply needed a means of investing 
the funds so that they would continue to grow for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the will 
trust. The will stated that Mrs L was a beneficiary, as well as the late Mr Ls children, Mrs G 
and Mr L, and remoter issue.
It is clear to me that placing the funds within a DGT, with Mrs L designated as settlor, was 
unsuitable. This arrangement was inflexible; the withdrawals were fixed and it did not allow 
access to the capital invested until Mrs Ls death. That does not meet with the arrangements 
specified in Mr Ls will, which said that the funds were to be held for the benefit of all of the 
beneficiaries. The suitability report said that the policy was to be written in trust so that in the 
event of Mrs Ls death, the proceeds would be paid to Mrs G and Mr L without the need for 
probate. But that wasnt necessary because the investment shouldve always been held 
within the will trust.
Although the trustees were all party to the advice, I dont think they couldve reasonably 
been expected to identify the mistakes in the advisers approach with regard to treating 
Mrs L as the settlor and him recommending a DGT. And in any event, the adviser was paid 
for his expertise. Furthermore, the advisers suitability report didnt contain any warnings 
about the inflexible nature of the arrangement hed recommended  he didnt say that the 
withdrawals were set for the remainder of Mrs Ls life, or that the capital sum couldnt be 
accessed until Mrs Ls death. There also isnt any reference to the key features of the 
product having been provided. So, I dont think there was any opportunity for the trustees to 
identify any problems with the advice before they raised their complaint.
Sesames mistake needs to be rectified so that the trustees can have access to the capital, 
as the will trust intended. That can only be achieved by the DGT being wound up. This isnt 
something Sesame can do  legal advice will need to be taken, so that a suitable deed can 
be drawn up. Tax advice is also required so as to understand the tax consequences of 
winding up the DGT and so that any future potential liabilities can be mitigated. Further 
financial advice will also need to be sought to ensure that the remaining funds are suitably 
invested in line with the requirements of the discretionary trust created by the late Mr Ls will. 
I think it is reasonable that Sesame covers the cost of obtaining this advice and the cost of 
the work required to put things right.
The trustees feel that Sesame should be required to source and engage the experts to put 
things right, given that the issue has only arisen due to its mistakes. However, the steps 
needed to put things right will need significant input from the trustees  the DGT can only be 
unwound at their direction. So, I think it is fair that the trustees seek out the advice needed.
As a result of the DGT being unwound, I think there will likely be tax consequences. Some of 
the tax consequences will be unavoidable, which I dont think Sesame should be held liable 
for. I say this because even if a suitable investment had been made within the structure of 
the discretionary trust created by the will, income tax would still likely be due when the investment was cashed in on whatever chargeable gain the investment made. So, I dont 
think Sesame needs to compensate the trustees for this, as this tax charge wouldve always 
been payable. 
However, I think its possible that there will also be avoidable tax charges, that is, charges 
that are purely as a result of the unsuitable advice, which could have been avoided if 
suitable advice had been given at the outset and withdrawals had been made in a tax 
efficient manner. Without going through the process of winding up the DGT, I dont know 
what charges there could be. So, if the trustees feel that they are required to pay tax charges 
that they would never have faced but for the unsuitable advice, evidence of this should be 
presented to Sesame and it should cover the cost of this.
I appreciate that both sides have asked for a definite settlement that draws matters to a 
close now. But unfortunately that isnt possible. I cannot direct Sesame to unwind the DGT 
as it has no power to do so. And the tax consequences of unwinding the DGT cannot be 
known until the trustees go through the process of doing so. It is for this reason that I think 
the relevant experts should be engaged by the trustees so that things can be put right as far 
as reasonably possible. And it is fair that Sesame covers the costs of this.
Sesame is concerned that I am asking it to provide a blank cheque, but that isnt the case. 
The trustees should provide Sesame with invoices and evidence if they believe they have 
paid additional tax that wouldnt have otherwise been payable. If Sesame believes the costs 
to be unreasonable/excessive, or not attributable to the initial mistake, then it can take this 
view. However, the trustees would be able to bring a new complaint if they feel Sesames 
stance over the costs is unreasonable.
Tax consequences of bond income being paid to Mrs L
Placing the funds in the DGT hasnt had any IHT consequences for Mrs L in terms of the 
capital sum invested. But the trustees say that although Mrs L initially required income of 
£1,000 per month, she no longer needs it. And because the income withdrawals cannot be 
stopped, the excess income shes received remains in her estate and could be liable to IHT. 
The trustees say that this issue hasnt been addressed.
But Im not persuaded that this problem can reasonably be attributed to the initial unsuitable 
advice. The trustees accept that Mrs L needed £1,000 per month from the investment  and 
the advice was based on this need. If Mrs Ls circumstances have since changed, such that 
she no longer needs the income, I dont think that is Sesames responsibility.
I dont know from what date the income was no longer required, but Mrs L wouldve been 
aware of it accumulating in her account and so I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect 
her to have considered this as part of her own IHT planning. For example, if Mrs L couldve 
reduced her income from other sources I wouldve expected her to do so to mitigate her IHT 
liability. The trustees have also made the point that Mrs L is in her seventies and is in good 
health  so, I would still expect Mrs L to make arrangements now to ensure any capital she 
has that isnt required can be gifted or invested in a tax-efficient way. Finally, the income 
Mrs L is currently receiving will be stopped once the DGT is unwound and the bond 
encashed  so this will address the problem going forwards.
The trustees are also concerned about the impact of the 2012 advice  the income being 
paid to Mrs L remained at £1,000 per month, which, because of the reduced value of the 
investment, represented more than 5% of the investment. So, this triggered a chargeable 
gain. Sesame said that this hadnt had an adverse impact on Mrs L. I also dont think that 
Mrs L has been disadvantaged by this, because shes already been treated as having paid 
tax at the basic rate on the amount of the gain. So, she would only be liable to pay additional tax if she was a higher rate tax-payer, and I dont think she is. However, if that assumption 
isnt correct, I believe Ive already accounted for this above where Ive said that Sesame 
should compensate the trustees for any avoidable tax they have to pay.
Compensation for the unsuitable investment
It is not in dispute that the investment recommendation was unsuitable  the trustees had a 
low attitude to risk, but the investment strategy recommended by Sesame was based on a 
medium attitude to risk.
Sesame has offered compensation based on a comparison of how much the investment 
would be worth if it had been invested in line with the trustees attitude to risk with the value 
of the bond now. It has used the same benchmark that I would have recommended it use for 
comparison purposes. So, Im satisfied that this is a fair method of calculation to put things 
right. However, this calculation will need to be brought up to date.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
trust as close to the position it would probably now be in if the trustees had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that the trustees would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what the trustees would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given the trust's circumstances and objectives when the 
trustees invested. This is the same calculation method Sesame has previously undertaken.
What must Sesame do?
To compensate the trust fairly, Sesame must:
Compare the performance of the trust's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to the trustees £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the 
unsuitable advice, which meant the trustees couldn't access the capital when they 
needed to.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Sterling 
BondStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index; for the other 
half: average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sesame should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Sesame totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The trustees wanted capital growth with a small risk to the trust's capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to the trust's capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that the trust's risk profile was in between, in the sense that the trustees 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain the trust's investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put the trust into that position. It does 
not mean that the trustees would have invested 50% of the trust's money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return the trustees could have 
obtained from investments suited to the trust's objective and risk attitude.
Sesame should also cover the reasonable costs incurred by the trustees to seek legal and 
tax advice in order to unwind the DGT. It should also cover reasonable costs incurred by the 
trustees to seek new investment advice once the funds have been released.
Sesame should also consider and compensate the trustees for any avoidable tax 
consequences of unwinding the DGT, subject to the trustees providing evidence that the 
costs are a direct result of the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and Award: I uphold this complaint and I require Sesame Limited to pay to 
Mrs L, Mrs G and Mr L as the trustees of the J Trust the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Sesame Limited to pay the trustees any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Sesame 
Limited to pay the trustees any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
sesame Limited pays Mrs L, Mrs G and Mr L as the trustees of the J Trust the balance. 
I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to 
be paid to the trustees. If the trustees accept this decision, the money award becomes 
binding on Sesame Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that the trustees can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. The trustees 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Sesame Limited should provide details of its calculation to the trustees in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L, Mrs G and 
Mr L as trustees of the J Trust to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman