DRN-4117100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined their claim for 
loss of a watch under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out an insurance policy with Covea. They had specific contents cover for 
a watch of a particular make and model and it was insured for a significant sum. Mr W had 
owned the watch for over 40 years and had purchased it after Mr and Mrs Ws marriage. Mr 
W had worn the watch to a work visit on a particular day and at a second work visit, realised 
that it had been lost. He was unable to find it at either work location or in the car. 
Mr and Mrs W then made a claim on the policy in January 2023, however Covea declined 
the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs W had been unable to produce proof of ownership of the 
watch as they didnt have the original receipt or other adequate evidence. Mr and Mrs W 
complained to Covea. Whilst Covea upheld the complaint in relation to certain services 
issues, it maintained its stance in relation to decline of the claim.
In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. Having 
considered the available evidence, the relevant investigator upheld their complaint and 
thought that Covea had acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator thought that 
Covea should settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim and pay interest from the date of claim.
Covea didnt agree with the outcome of their complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether Covea applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I dont consider 
that it did, and Ill explain why. In reaching this final decision, Ive considered the 
submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Mr and Mrs W provided a helpful timeline of events. Following the claim, they said that 
Covea asked them to forward photographic evidence of the watch for the jewellery specialist 
to value it. They also said that the relevant specialist confirmed that they could value the 
watch from photographs. Coveas representative then asked Mr and Mrs W to provide proof 
of purchase, whilst indicating that she considered the claim to be genuine. Mr W said wasnt 
told that he would need to provide a certificate of authenticity after the event of a claim. Mr W 
said that hed reverted to the seller but that it only kept records going back 25 years. Hed 
also contacted a company which had serviced the watch, but they didnt keep records either. 
He did however supply a receipt from a repairer showing a battery replacement in 
September 2018. Mr W also provided photographs in which he was wearing what he said 
was the specifically insured watch.
I now turn to what Covea has stated about the matter. It thought that the policy wording 
confirmed that it would need to see the proof of value and ownership prior to the loss and 
that Mr and Mrs W hadnt provided this. It referred to a specific part of the policy booklet as 
to its approach to settling claims. It underlined that proof was needed to show that customers 
owned what they were claiming for, and also as regards value before the loss occurred. 
Covea also provided helpful file notes. These notes recorded that Mr W had been candid in 
stating that whilst the watch had a specified value in the policy schedule of £4,500, hed 
never had it valued. The notes record Coveas indication that a cash settlement had been 
considered as the watch couldnt be replaced on a like for like basis in the current range of 
the make. Coveas valuers advised a value of £4,200. Covea had noted the photographs 
supplied but felt the evidence didnt prove authenticity. As to the 2018 receipt for a battery 
replacement, Covea said that as it didnt have Mr Ws name on it, it wasnt sufficient proof of 
ownership.
As to the service issue which Covea upheld, it said that Mr and Mrs W should have been 
provided with clearer explanations about the information it required. It said that it should 
have advised that Covea may not settle a claim without this information. It apologised for this 
and said that feedback would be passed on to prevent it happening in the future.
Having considered all evidence and submission, Ill now explain the reasoning for my 
decision. The starting point is the policy wording itself. Under the heading How We Will 
Settle Your Claim, the policy booklet states that Youll need to provide us with proof that 
you own what youre claiming for. Well also need to see proof of value (how much it was 
worth before the loss or damage).
Whilst I agree that the policy wording is clear, Im satisfied on the balance of probabiities that 
the evidence shows that Mr W owned a watch of the make and model claimed and that he 
recently lost it. Im also satisfied that a reasonable value for that watch was £4,200 and that 
Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy covered the unfortunate loss, for the following reasons.
In this case, I note that the watch had been insured as a specific item for many years, with a 
specific make and model being recorded in the policy schedule. Whilst the photographs are 
not particularly detailed, they do show Mr W wearing a distinctive watch matching the make 
and model which Mr W had lost. Whilst it doesnt prove authenticity beyond all reasonable 
doubt, Im persuaded that it does so on the balance of probabilities. I consider that the 
receipt for a replacement watch battery in 2018 provides supporting evidence of ownership, 
as it is relatively expensive and references a watch of the relevant make. I appreciate that 
this doesnt bear Mr Ws name or his address, however Im persuaded that this relates to Mr 
Ws watch for which specific cover had been obtained.
I also note that Coveas valuer had said that they would be happy to carrry out a valuation on 
the watch on the basis of the photographs and indeed provided a figure of £4,200. Mr and 
Mrs W had obtained specific individal cover for the watch of this make and model. I note that 
the valuation figure is similar to the figure for which Mr and Mrs W had obtained cover and 
that Mr and Mrs W had provided the same figure for at least the past four years. Whilst this 
doesnt provide evidence of value prior to loss, the combination of the above factors does so. 
This leads me to the conclusion that the value of £4,200 prior to loss was a fair and 
reasonable figure, and confirmed on behalf of Covea.
Ideally Mr and Mrs Ws claim for a valuable item would have been supported by a receipt or 
certificate of authenticity from the time of purchase. Ideally, it would also have been 
supported by a jewellers valuation before being accepted for insurance cover. Nevertheless, 
Im satisfied that the available evidence substantailly fulfilled the requirements of the policy terms and conditions. I conclude that it wasnt fair or reasonable for Covea to apply the 
wording of the insurance policy in the way that it did to decline Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and require Covea 
Insurance plc to do the following in response to the complaint.
- To settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim for the watch in the sum of £4,200 less any excess 
amount contained in the policy.
- Pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the settlement sum from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.
*If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman