DRN-4087409
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc placed blocks on her account when she tried to make 
payments using online banking. She also feels her complaint was handled poorly.
What happened
On 4 July 2022, Mrs B attempted to make a payment of £18,000 from her TSB account into 
her account with a different provider, but it was stopped. Mrs B spoke to TSB and the block 
from her account was removed. She was told to make the payment again. 
Mrs B tried to make the payment again the same day, but this was also stopped. Unhappy 
with this, Mrs B says she tried to call TSB, but their fraud department was closed. So, she 
spoke to them the following day. She asked TSB to allow her to make the payment and to 
raise a complaint about her account being blocked twice. 
TSB removed the block from Mrs Bs account and the transaction was successfully 
completed on 5 July 2022. Mrs B says she was told that a complaint had been logged. A few 
days later, she received a letter from TSB which she felt shocked and surprised by, as it 
stated that they were pleased they had been able to put things right for her and that she was 
happy for them to close her complaint. 
Mrs B emailed TSB explaining this wasnt true as she didnt say she was happy or agree to 
her complaint to be closed. She also felt that her complaint wasnt investigated. She 
provided them with the details of what had happened and explained that she wanted to claim 
the interest she lost of £1.36 due to the delay in the payment being completed. Mrs B also 
said that she wanted compensation as TSB hadnt dealt with her complaint effectively and in 
an appropriate time, and for the stress and worry she was caused. She also asked for an 
explanation for why her account was blocked twice and why TSB had closed her complaint 
without checking if she was happy with the outcome. 
TSB acknowledged Mrs Bs concerns and agreed to review her complaint. They said they 
hoped to put things right for Mrs B and reach a satisfactory conclusion, but they highlighted 
that their previous letter explained that she could refer her complaint to our service if she 
remained unhappy with their decision. 
Mrs B says she sent TSB an email chasing a response when she didnt hear from them. She 
then referred her complaint to our service as she still hadnt received a reply. 
TSB explained that the blocks were placed as part of their security process to help protect 
their customers account from potential fraud and no bank error was made. They said that 
their adviser explained this to Mrs B on 5 July 2022 and offered to consider any loss of 
interest. They gave Mrs B an email address to send evidence of the interest shed lost. They 
said they closed Mrs Bs complaint and sent her a summary resolution letter.
They said they reopened Mrs Bs complaint as she felt her concerns hadnt been 
investigated. But since theyd already provided a final response letter, they didnt have any 
set timescales to review the complaint and send out a further response. They explained they 
hadnt had an opportunity to do this at the time the complaint was referred to us. 
They reiterated that to keep their customers accounts safe, and to assist with detecting 
fraud, they use a system that tries to identify if a transaction could be potentially fraudulent. 
The security feature in place can be triggered at any time, and they have no way of knowing 
when or what payments will be affected. 
Our investigator said that TSB had made an error in stopping the payment Mrs B made the 
second time, as shed already spoken to them after the initial attempt and confirmed her 
payment was genuine. He thought that TSB couldve helped Mrs B make the payment the 
first time she called, and the delays caused her a loss of interest. He also thought TSB 
hadnt done enough to investigate Mrs Bs complaint and made an error in closing it. He 
asked TSB to refund the loss of interest of £1.36 but didnt feel that TSB should pay 
compensation as the payment was made the following day and this didnt have a significant 
impact on Mrs B.
TSB responded to the investigators view and agreed to pay £1.36 loss of interest. But they 
said Mrs B didnt provide evidence of loss of interest for them to consider and if she had, 
they wouldve covered this for her. 
They said theyd listened to the calls of 4 July and 5 July 2022 and made the following 
comments: 
During the first call of 4 July 2022, they confirmed to Mr B (who was speaking to TSB 
on behalf of Mrs B at the time) that the block had been removed and the payment 
should be made again. They said their adviser was saying that should but Mr B 
interrupted, and the call ended. They explained that in this scenario, after they had 
unblocked an account following a security check, they advise their customer that they 
should be able to make the payment again but also manage their expectations that 
the security feature could activate again and stop the payment for a second time. 
They said it was reasonable to believe they wouldve told Mr B this before he 
interrupted, and the call finished.
On the second call of 5 July 2022, their adviser confirmed that no bank error had 
been made with the payment being stopped for the second time on 4 July 2022. 
Their adviser confirmed the email address for Mrs B to put in a claim for loss of 
interest. Their adviser explained theyd send a letter confirming the complaint had 
been registered and giving them rights to refer the matter to our service if she 
remained unhappy. They explained that if Mrs B had said during the call that she 
remained unhappy, then they wouldve escalated the complaint to their Customer 
Relations Department, but the outcome wouldve been the same as no error was 
made with the second payment being stopped.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She said that TSB have been let off the hook and felt very let down. She believes TSB have 
acted in a very unprofessional manner and without regard to their customers. She explained 
the call was cut short by TSB and not her. She said shed sent TSB numerous emails telling 
them she was unhappy with the way theyd behaved towards her, but they didnt reply to her. 
She also said that TSB knew she was unhappy and wanted to make a complaint as they 
sent her a letter telling her theyd closed her complaint. 
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2023, and I made the following findings:
TSB are required to take reasonable steps to protect their customers from fraud and 
scams. They might be held liable for any foreseeable losses, if they breach their duty 
of care. Most financial institutions, including TSB, use common tools such as 
automated security systems to meet these obligations.
Ive looked at TSBs records and Im satisfied that a security check was triggered on 
the initial transaction Mrs B attempted. I dont think this was unreasonable given that 
the transaction was for a large amount, particularly when considering that funds were 
paid into the account the same day and Mrs B had made another large transaction a 
week before.
I appreciate why it may seem to Mrs B that TSB didnt unblock her account after 
shed spoken to them on 4 July 2022 as the second transaction was for the same 
amount and details as the initial one.
However, Ive looked at TSBs reasons for stopping the second payment. I cant 
share the specific details as this information is confidential and commercially 
sensitive, but I can reassure Mrs B that there was a second security alert and TSB 
had a legitimate reason to block her account.
The very nature of these types of security checks means that consumers may be 
caused some distress and inconvenience. But this doesnt mean TSB shouldnt carry 
out additional checks. Having looked at why TSB placed blocks on Mrs Bs account, I 
dont think theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably. By doing so, TSB were able to 
confirm that the transactions were genuine and may have been alerted to potential 
financial crime.
Since I dont think TSB did anything wrong in stopping both the payments, I dont 
think they should be responsible for the loss of interest Mrs B says she suffered as a 
result of the one-day delay. So, I wont be asking TSB to reimburse Mrs B for the 
interest she says shes lost. But given that its a nominal amount, TSB may wish to 
refund this, if they choose to do so
Turning to the point of the customer service issues Mrs B has raised, Ive listened to 
the relevant phone calls. Mr B spoke to TSB for majority of the time, on behalf of Mrs 
B. But overall, I think TSB gave Mrs B poor service. Ill explain why.
Ive summarised the relevant part of the call of 4 July 2022  the adviser told Mr B 
that the blocks were removed and asked if there was anything else she could help 
him with. Mr B asked if he should make the payment again and the adviser confirmed 
that was correct as the blocks wouldve stopped the payment from going through. Mr 
B said he hoped that the payment would go through now and thanked the adviser. 
The adviser responded with that should and asked if there was anything else. 
Following this Mr B said thank you and the call ended.
Based on TSBs own testimony, their adviser shouldve managed Mr Bs expectation 
on behalf of Mrs B, by advising him that the security feature could activate again and 
stop the payment the second time. They say it didnt happen on this call because Mr 
B interrupted the adviser after she said, that should and the call ended.  
As Ive detailed in my summary above, the adviser asked Mr B if there was anything 
else twice, so I dont agree that the adviser didnt have an opportunity to manage Mr 
Bs expectations, nor that Mr B interrupted the adviser from finishing her sentence. I think TSB shouldve clearly explained the next steps to Mr B, which wouldve 
lessened the frustration and annoyance caused to Mrs B when the second payment 
was also stopped.
And if this information was given to Mr B at the time, he wouldve had the option of 
asking TSB for more help with completing the payment to avoid having to call again, 
particularly since Mrs B has explained she struggles with completing verification 
checks over the phone.
Given that TSB were aware that the second payment could also be stopped, I think 
they couldve done more to help Mrs B. For example, during the second call with TSB 
on 5 July 2022, the adviser waited on the call while Mr B made the transaction 
successfully. Alternatively, TSB couldve offered to make the payment on the call. 
TSB have highlighted that they dont think offering to make the payment on the call of 
4 July 2022 was the right thing to do, especially given the high value of the 
transaction. Theyve explained that the payment was being made from Mrs Bs sole 
account and Mr B didnt hold any type of third party or power of attorney authority. 
They said it was clear from the calls that Mrs B wasnt confident talking about the 
matter on the phone and she told them that Mr B managed the finances. They 
pointed out that when Mrs B spoke on the phone, she was asking Mr B questions in 
the background. They believed that Mr B keyed in Mrs Bs details prior to being 
transferred to their advisers and he also did majority of the talking.
Im afraid I think TSB have provided this explanation retrospectively and Im not 
persuaded that they had genuine safeguarding concerns around Mrs B at the time. If 
that were the case, I wouldnt have expected TSB to have removed the blocks from 
Mrs Bs account during the call of 4 July 2022 and wouldve reasonably expected 
them to do more to protect Mrs B.
I think this is also evidenced by the fact that TSB didnt do anything differently when 
they clearly knew during the call of 5 July 2022, that Mr B had completed the second 
payment presumably using Mrs Bs online banking details while the adviser waited on 
the call. 
I also think TSB shouldve been clearer with Mrs B (Mr B on her behalf) on the call of 
5 July 2022 regarding her complaint. I agree the adviser apologised, gave an 
explanation for why there was no bank error and addressed the concerns Mrs B 
raised about the loss of interest. 
However, the adviser said a few times that the complaint was logged/registered. 
There wasnt sufficient information provided on the call to make it clear that TSB 
considered the matter to be resolved and that theyd be closing the complaint. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mrs B left with the impression that the complaint 
would be investigated. 
TSB have said that if Mrs B had informed them during the call that she was still 
unhappy, theyd have escalated the matter to their Customer Relations Department. I 
dont think Mrs B indicated in the call that she was happy that her complaint was 
resolved, and the adviser didnt check this with her either. There wasnt anything 
mentioned during the call by the adviser which indicated that TSB considered the 
matter resolved. So, I wouldnt have expected Mrs B to say that she remained 
unhappy.I think the onus was on TSB to check that Mrs B was happy with the outcome 
offered, and to let her know theyd be closing her complaint even if she didnt agree 
with the answer theyd given. So, I can understand the shock and surprise Mrs B 
experienced when she received TSBs letter of 5 July 2022, which said they were 
pleased they had been able to put things right for her and that she was happy for 
them to close her complaint
I appreciate TSB had given Mrs B information about how to refer her complaint to our 
service in their letter of 5 July 2022. But Id still have expected them to respond to 
Mrs Bs concerns as theyd agreed to do in their letter of 4 August 2022. 
I understand that TSB hadnt had the opportunity to assign the complaint to a case 
handler before the matter was referred to our service. However, Mrs B didnt raise 
her complaint to us until 28 September 2022. And TSB didnt send any further 
updates about the delays in responding to her, or even let her know that they 
wouldnt be providing a response as we were now looking into the complaint. I can 
understand the frustration and annoyance Mrs B was caused by the lack of 
communication here.
Mrs B has pointed out that TSB havent responded to her emails. She has sent us a 
copy of her email of 4 August 2022 which I can see TSB acknowledged the same 
day. She has also provided us with the details of her email of 7 September 2022. 
However, TSBs records show they didnt receive this email which likely explains why 
she didnt receive a response.
Putting things right
While Mrs Bs funds payment was successfully made the following day, I think there 
were a number of customer service issues which have had an impact on Mrs B. 
Individually, these werent serious or more than the normal nuisances you might 
expect from everyday life. But in having to experience a few issues, I think the impact 
on Mrs B was compounded. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mrs B to decide how TSB should put things right 
here. Ive taken into account that majority of the phone calls were dealt with by Mr B, 
and Mrs B spent minimal amount of time on the phone. Ive also considered about 
the inconvenience caused by the emails she sent to TSB. But I dont think the impact 
she was caused by these were significant. I agree she was caused some 
unnecessary distress, frustration and annoyance by the customer service she 
received.
Its also important for me to explain that I cant award any compensation for the 
impact caused to Mr B here, as hes not the eligible complainant. 
Taking all these factors into account, I think that a fair way to resolve this complaint is 
for TSB to pay Mrs B £50 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs B and TSB responded to my provisional decision confirming their acceptance.Since there isnt any further information or evidence for me to consider, Im satisfied with the 
findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from the outcome I explained in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mrs B 
£50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman