DRN-3653595
The complaint
Mr T complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled another drivers 
claim against his motor insurance policy
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident and said that the other driver was to blame. But the other 
driver said it was Mr Ts fault. 
Mr T was unhappy that Skyfire settled the claim with him at fault. He also complained that 
Skyfire took too long to repair his car and didnt communicate with him, and he wasnt 
happy with the courtesy car. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that   
Skyfire had decided liability fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. But he thought 
that they should offer Mr T £250 in compensation for the service issues. Mr T accepted the 
compensation for those, but he still disagreed on liability. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
.As the investigator explained, we dont decide which party is liable for causing an 
incident. Thats because that is a matter for the courts. But we do consider whether a 
business has acted in line with their policy terms, and whether they reached their decision 
in a fair and reasonable way. In this case, Ive checked that Mr Ts policy does give Skyfire 
discretion to decide liability and take over and deal with the defence and settlement of any 
claim. This means that Skyfire can decide to settle whether Mr T likes it or not. 
Mr T said that he was in the correct lane when the third-party driver hit his car, but the third 
party said that Mr T had moved into the third partys lane without indicating. 
Ive seen Skyfires file and its clear that they did investigate and consider Mr Ts account of 
events as well as that of the third party. They looked at Mr Ts statement, sketch of the 
accident and location and photos of the accidents aftermath. They also looked at both cars 
direction of travel, and the road layout, and considered where Mr Ts car was damaged. 
Skyfire said they could not be confident that they could successfully defend the case in court 
if the third-party insurer sued, as they threatened. So they made the commercial decision to 
settle it and avoid court costs. 
I think Skyfire made a full and sufficient investigation into the matter before settling it and it 
was reasonable of them to settle, on the evidence they had. They were entitled to make that 
decision to settle to minimise further costs. And they settled the third-party claim on a without 
prejudice basis, which means that they did not admit liability on Mr Ts behalf and he can still 
take the third party to court if he wants. 
As I think that Skyfire did not act unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim as they did,  I 
dont require them to do anything else and I dont uphold his complaint that regard.
I think that they did take longer than necessary to have his car repaired, and didnt 
communicate well with him during that time, but they did provide him with a courtesy car in 
line with what the policy said.  Mr T didnt feel that the courtesy car was suitable for him. 
But the policy makes clear that a courtesy car doesnt have to be the same size or model 
as the policyholders own car, it depends on what is available, and it is typically a small 
vehicle. So I cant say it was unreasonable.
Skyfire accepted that Mr Ts cars repairs had taken longer than they should have, and they 
hadnt kept him informed . But they said this was for reasons associated with the Covid 
pandemic and lockdown. After the investigator gave his view, Skyfire apologised and 
offered Mr T £250 compensation. I think this is fair. 
 
Putting things right
I see that Mr T has accepted that offer and it appears that Skyfire have now paid this to him 
and it is to be hoped that he has received it. To avoid any doubt, Ive made the decision 
below. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, it is my final decision that I partly uphold this complaint and I require 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr T £250 in compensation for his inconvenience 
if they have not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
