DRN-3174676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has declined their 
request to extend the term of their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Halifax secured on the property that they live in. The 
mortgage was largely on an interest only basis when it was originally taken out, with some 
further borrowing on a repayment basis. The mortgage term was due to expire in September 
2016.
Mr and Mrs M also hold two other mortgages, with the Bank of Scotland group, on two other 
properties.
The mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ms home was not repaid when the term expired. Ive seen 
contact notes which indicate that Mr and Mrs M made Halifax aware, when it requested 
repayment, that Mr M had been suffering from ill health. And it appears Halifax decided to 
not chase further for a while, as a result.
In early 2018 Mr and Mrs M asked Halifax to extend the term of the mortgage for five years. 
The property was in negative equity at the time, with its value being less than the amount 
owed under the mortgage. And the position was similar on the other two properties they 
owned. They wanted the term extension to allow them to renovate the property so it could 
achieve a higher sale price. They also said they intended to retire after that extended term 
expired and sell their company, the proceeds of which would help repay the outstanding 
debt.
While Halifax was considering the request, it came to light that it had made errors calculating 
Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly mortgage repayment since approximately 2010. Mr and 
Mrs M had been charged less than they shouldve been. No payments had been made 
towards the repayment part of their mortgage at all. And less had been paid towards the 
interest only part of the mortgage than shouldve been. As a result, the mortgage balance 
had not reduced as much as it shouldve, if Mr and Mrs M had been paying the correct 
amount.
There was a significant amount of internal deliberation by Halifax about how to put this right. 
And the term extension application could not proceed while that was ongoing. In early 2020 
Halifax agreed that it would put the mortgage back in the position it wouldve been in, if Mr 
and Mrs M had paid what they shouldve each month. To do this Halifax agreed to write off 
the amount that had been underpaid (in the region of £140,000). So, the mortgage balance 
was reduced to approximately the amount originally borrowed on an interest only basis (in 
the region of £580,000) as this is what wouldve been outstanding when the term expired 
had the mortgage payments been made correctly.
Mr and Mrs M had continued to pay less than they shouldve towards the interest only 
portion of the mortgage after the term expired in 2016. Meaning the mortgage was 
essentially in arrears through underpayment. Halifax also wrote off this amount. But moving 
forward Mr and Mrs M were required to pay the correct monthly amount. I understand, based 
on information Halifax has provided that they have done so successfully since the correction 
was made to the account.
After these adjustments were made however, Halifax looked again at the application for a 
term extension  including getting an up to date valuation of the property. But it did not agree 
to extending the mortgage term. It said it felt Mr and Mrs M did not have a viable repayment 
strategy so extending the term wouldnt necessarily mean they were in any better position in 
five years time. And Mr and Mrs M would also have paid significantly more interest over that 
period. So, it didnt think it was right to agree an extension.
It did though acknowledge that there had been significant delays in reaching its decision. I 
understand it offered Mr and Mrs M £500 in respect of the distress caused by this in 2019. 
And it offered another £1,000 to address this, in 2020.
Unhappy with Halifaxs decision, Mr and Mrs M asked our service to consider their 
complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into matters. She said she didnt think Halifaxs decision to 
decline the application was unreasonable. This was because she didnt think on balance, it 
would necessarily improve Mr and Mrs Ms position. And so, given the additional cost 
involved, and the potential for their situation to actually worsen, she didnt think the extension 
was in their best interests. She also felt the £1,500 offered by Halifax for the distress caused 
by how long Halifaxs investigation took was fair.
Mr and Mrs M did not agree with our Investigators opinion. They said they thought the term 
of the mortgage had expired in 2018  which is why theyd requested an extension then. 
They said Halifax had granted an extension on one of their other properties and led them to 
believe this would be a formality on this mortgage. But theyd then been left in limbo for 
several years. They said they didnt think Halifaxs decision was fair, as if they had to sell the 
property now, they would be in negative equity. But if they were given time to complete 
renovations, which theyd started on the understanding that the extension was going to be 
agreed, the property would likely achieve a price that meant Halifax was repaid in full. They 
said they no longer required a five-year term extension. But If Halifax would extend the term 
for 12-18 months, they were confident they could complete the renovations and sell the 
property for enough to repay the mortgage balance in full.
Our Investigator still didnt think Halifax had made an error when declining the request. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs M asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our Investigators view, Mr and Mrs M have said that they believed the 
mortgage term ended in 2018. But all of the information Ive seen, including account 
statements and end of terms letters, indicate the term ended in September 2016.
The agreement made, when the mortgage was taken out was that the amount borrowed 
would be repaid in full at the end of the term. So as a starting point, in my view, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Halifax to expect the repayment to be made as agreed. 
Halifax allowed the mortgage to continue beyond the end of its term. Initially there simply seems to have been a delay in Halifax getting in touch with Mr and Mrs M. It then appears 
they became aware of Mr Ms ill health and decided at that time to take no further action. 
Mr and Mrs M have ultimately benefitted from these actions as they were not pursued for 
repayment of the balance owed immediately.
I can see Mr and Mrs M spoke to Halifax in early 2018 about a five-year term extension. 
Theyve said that this was at the same time as extending the term on one of their other 
mortgages and they were told only one application could be processed at once but that both 
should be acceptable. And the notes Ive been provided by Halifax support this and suggest 
Mr and Mrs M were led to believe that the extension would potentially be granted at different 
times.
The consideration of the extension was delayed while Halifax looked into the account having 
been underfunded. I know it mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M not to have a 
confirmed answer. But throughout this delay the mortgage continued. So effectively it was, 
albeit informally, extended for that time. And the information Ive seen indicates Halifax was 
not taking steps to enforce its security while this was ongoing.
Halifax did take a long time to reach a decision on the underfunding issue, with it finally 
agreeing to write off a significant sum and rework the account in early 2020. Overall, I think 
what it did to address that issue is fair. Again, while that was ongoing, Mr and Mrs M were 
benefitting from an informal extension. And they were also paying less than they were 
contractually required to, in the time Halifaxs investigations were ongoing. And Halifax has 
also written that underpayment off. 
Halifax then decided that it would not agree to the requested term extension. And I 
understand it is this decision that is the crux of the complaint. So, Ive thought about whether 
this was fair.
Halifax has explained that the reasons it declined the request were that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
meet its affordability criteria, particularly in the event that interest rates increased. And it also 
didnt think they had an acceptable repayment strategy. This was because they were relying 
on completing work to the property and this enabling them to achieve a specific sale price, 
which Halifax felt was not guaranteed. And it also said it couldnt reasonably accept the sale 
of their business as a repayment strategy as the information available to them indicated that 
Mr and Mrs M were no longer in fact the owners of the business. On the face of it, these 
concerns appear reasonable.
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, particularly around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that this could impact existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. These rules are 
set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). 
These rules include allowing lenders to set aside some of the new tests, particularly around 
affordability assessments and repayment strategies for interest only mortgages, in certain 
circumstances if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best 
interests. 
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages or agree to lend. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the criteria for setting aside the more stringent tests are met.
Mr and Mrs Ms request to extend the term of their mortgage would appear to fall into the 
category where Halifax could opt to set aside the more stringent tests around affordability 
and interest only repayment strategy. That is because the original mortgage was taken out 
prior to 26 April 2014, there doesnt appear to have been further borrowing since that date 
and Mr and Mrs M were not looking to take additional borrowing as part of their application. 
So, if the transaction, the five-year term extension, was in their best interests, I think Halifax 
couldve set aside these assessments  which are the reasons it says the application was 
declined.
Mr and Mrs M have said they needed the term extension to allow them time to complete 
renovations on the property. Theyve stressed in response to Investigators opinion that this 
wasnt to speculatively achieve a higher price but was to ensure that the property sold for 
what they believe it to be actually worth  as if the work was unfinished, they expect this to 
impact the price they can achieve. And they wanted to achieve the best possible price as 
they were in negative equity. I understand their position and why they are keen make this 
distinction. But whichever way it is viewed the intention is the same  to achieve a better 
price than they believe would currently be achieved.
If a better price were achieved, which was above the outstanding balance they currently owe 
under the mortgage, then that would be in their interests. It would mean they werent left 
owing anything to Halifax after the property was sold. But there is no guarantee that a higher 
price will be achieved, even after renovations were completed. I understand Mr and Mrs M 
think this is likely. But there is the risk, as property prices are subject to market conditions 
and fluctuations, that this wont happen.
In addition, there was a significant extra cost involved with the requested extension  interest 
payments for five years. Mr and Mrs M would also have been at risk of their monthly 
repayments increasing if underlying interest rates changed. And Halifax was concerned that 
this could be unaffordable. If that did happen, the mortgage wouldve fallen into arrears, 
increasing the amount that needed to be paid back.
Mr and Mrs M wouldve also needed to find funding to complete the renovations. Theyve 
talked about how much they estimate the renovations would cost and why they believe they 
can get them completed for less, as they have family who work in the relevant trades. But 
theyve also been clear that part of the reason for needing to extend the term was to raise 
the funding to complete the works. There was no guarantee that they would be able to raise 
the required funding. And if they did, this would also increase their outgoings, heightening 
the risk of them falling behind on mortgage repayments in the event that interest rates 
increased.
Taking all of this into account, I understand why Mr and Mrs M wanted the term of the 
mortgage to be extended for five years  as there is the potential for their position to have 
improved. But there were also significant risks involved  not least the increased cost and 
there being no guarantee that their position would have improved, with the possibility, in the 
event of house prices falling, they could actually end up in a worse position. So, I dont think 
the extension they requested was necessarily in their best interests, given the risks involved. 
And as a result, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly by declining to extend the term.
Mr and Mrs M have said they feel Halifax should agree to their request because of the way 
things have been handled for the last few years  Halifax leading them to think that the 
extension would potentially be granted and how long it took them to decide matters. But I 
dont agree that Halifax should be required to extend the term because of this. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I think its decision to decline this request was not unreasonable.The information Ive been provided by Halifax does indicate that it has given Mr and Mrs M 
reason to think, on more than one occasion, that their request might be approved. And I 
dont doubt that it was distressing when they found out this wasnt the case, having been 
given this impression. Im also conscious that Halifax did take a long time to give its decision 
on the request  which I also accept was likely distressing. As Ive already said though, while 
this did take a long time, Halifax wasnt seeking to enforce its security while the matter was 
considered, so Mr and Mrs M have benefitted from an unofficial extension. And given that 
the mortgage was originally due to be repaid in September 2016, that informal extension is 
now in excess of five years.
Taking all of this into account, I think that the offer Halifax has already made, paying a total 
of £1,500 (£500 offered and I understand paid in 2019 and a further £1,000 offered in 2020), 
to address the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions is fair. 
Recently Mr and Mrs M have said that they still would like a term extension on their 
mortgage. But they dont require it for as long as they had previously requested  and have 
indicated they need an extension of approximately 12-18 months. This is different to what 
theyve previously asked Halifax to consider. So, Halifax hasnt had the opportunity to think 
about this. And it isnt the role of our service to negotiate proposals on behalf of the parties 
to a complaint.
As Ive said, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in terms of how it considered their 
previous request. I think it was reasonable, based on the risks involved, to say that it might 
not be in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests. And the mortgage was due to be repaid in 2016, 
which I think it was fair for Halifax to expect to happen. So, I think its decision was fair. And a 
lot of the same risks involved with that request still exist now.
At the same time though, Mr and Mrs M have demonstrated that theyve been able to 
maintain the increased monthly repayment since the issue with the underfunding was 
resolved. And theyve told us that they are in the process of selling one of their other 
properties and that they are hopeful that property will not be in negative equity when that 
happens. The information Halifax has provided also indicates that it is fully aware of the 
potential consequences of requiring a sale of Mr and Mrs Ms property now  the risk of 
negative equity to both parties  including that it might not receive back everything it is owed.
So, while I dont think its decision and actions to this point were unfair, moving forward, Id 
expect Halifax to continue to engage with Mr and Mrs M and to think about their revised 
request. And, with the overarching requirement to treat customers fairly, think about whether 
in the revised circumstances, it would now be acceptable. This isnt to say that I think it must 
accept the proposal. But I think itd be fair to consider it. And if not, itd expect Halifax to think 
about what else it could potentially do to help Mr and Mrs M, before taking recovery action.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already made an offer to pay a total of £1,500 
to address the distress caused by its handling of this matter. I think this offer is a fair way to 
settle the complaint in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that, if it has not already done so, Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
should pay Mr and Mrs M £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman