DRN-3308206
The complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited didnt treat him fairly when he was in arrears 
on his conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In January 2015, Mr J acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Within a few months he began to experience some financial difficulty and fell 
into arrears on the agreement.
Moneybarn started legal proceedings in late 2015 to recover the car from Mr J. However, 
Mr J wanted to keep the car and continue making repayments, so a consent order was 
agreed through the courts between Mr J and Moneybarn. This set out the payment terms 
that Mr J would need to stick to, otherwise Moneybarn could repossess the car. Mr J didnt 
keep to the terms of the consent order, so Moneybarn eventually repossessed the car.
In March 2020, Mr J raised a new complaint to say that he felt he should have been included 
in the recent redress scheme that Moneybarn had agreed with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). He said his circumstances were similar to those customers that had 
received payments from the scheme.
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that Mr J wasnt one of the customers that had been 
identified as part of the FCAs findings into Moneybarns practices. It said that it didnt think it 
had done anything in wrong in the way it had dealt with his agreement.
I sent Mr J and Moneybarn my provisional decision on 17 January 2022. I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr J says he should have been included as part of the redress scheme Moneybarn agreed 
with the FCA. Moneybarn says Mr J wasnt included because his circumstances didnt meet 
the criteria.
In summary, the FCA found that in a number of cases Moneybarn didnt give consumers a 
realistic chance of clearing their arrears in a sustainable way. And it didnt clearly explain 
their options for exiting their agreements and setting out the financial implications of each of 
those options. The effect of this was that some of those consumers ended up incurring 
higher termination costs than they otherwise would have.
Our investigator found that Moneybarn hadnt clearly explained the various exit options to 
Mr J prior to the agreement being terminated. Further, he didnt think Moneybarn had clearly 
explained the financial implications of each of these options. From what Moneybarn has 
provided so far, Im minded to agree with what the investigator concluded.
However, just because I dont think Moneybarn explained the exit options and their financial 
implications clearly, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Js complaint ought to succeed. 
This is because Id need to be satisfied that Moneybarns actions caused Mr J to suffer a 
loss, and from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that it did.
From the copies of communications Ive seen between Mr J and Moneybarn, it is clear Mr J 
wanted to keep possession of the car. His communications centred on trying to find a way to 
avoid repossession or having to hand the car back. He also wanted to continue finding ways 
to make up the arrears that had built up on the account.
Any of the exit options available to Mr J would have resulted in him losing the car and still 
owing Moneybarn payments under the agreement. Its clear from his communications at the 
time that he wanted at all costs to avoid losing the car. Im therefore not persuaded that had 
Moneybarn set out his exit options that Mr J would have opted to take any of them.
This is further supported by the fact that Mr J agreed to the terms of the consent order and 
he negotiated the payment dates that would apply to ensure he could meet those 
repayments. It would have been clear that if he didnt keep to the terms of the consent order 
that Moneybarn would be entitled to repossess the car. Mr Js communications at the time 
set out that he believed he could afford the repayments agreed with the court. So, if he 
believed this at the time, I dont think he would have chosen to voluntarily hand the car back, 
particularly when he clearly wanted to avoid doing so.
Ive also thought about whether Moneybarn gave Mr J a realistic timeframe to sustainably 
repay back the arrears.
Mr J first missed a payment in April 2015 and the consent order was agreed in 
September 2015. Between that time Mr J made one payment towards the agreement, which 
was after he was already four months in arrears.
I appreciate Mr J was clearly going through a difficult time financially, and he did periodically
get in touch with Moneybarn to discuss his circumstances and request support to repay the
arrears. I understand he feels Moneybarn ought to have offered him more assistance at the
time. However, I can see Moneybarn did try repeatedly to get in touch with Mr J and on
several occasions it didnt hear back from him. There were other times when Mr J made
promises to pay that werent kept.
Mr J had fallen into arrears soon after entering into the agreement and given the lack of clear 
repayment proposals from Mr J, I dont think in the specific circumstances of this case 
Moneybarn acted unreasonably in seeking to repossess the car and terminate the 
agreement once the agreement was three to four months in arrears.
After the consent order was sealed by the court Mr J failed to keep to the repayment terms 
hed agreed. Moneybarn were therefore entitled to repossess the car. While its possible that 
at this final stage Mr J may have accepted taking a different exit option out of the agreement, 
it was too late for him to do so. This is because after breaching the consent order his 
agreement was already terminated and hed lost his rights to exit the agreement in a 
different way. I note that even at this late stage Mr J was still seeking to find a way with 
Moneybarn for him to be able to keep the car. This further persuades me that had his exit 
options been made clear at an earlier stage that he wouldnt have likely opted to take one of 
them.
Overall, while I dont think Moneybarn acted fairly by not clearly setting out Mr Js options 
regarding exiting his agreement, this failing didnt cause Mr J any financial loss. For that 
reason, I dont propose to direct Moneybarn to do anything further to put things right.
Mr J didnt agree with my provisional decision but provided no further comments or evidence 
for consideration. Moneybarn didnt respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further following my provisional decision, Ive seen no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached previously. For the reasons set 
out above in my provisional decision, I dont consider that Moneybarn needs to do anything 
to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman