DRN-3732241
The complaint
Mr B complains Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined his Buildings Insurance 
claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B Ive considered all the points hes made carefully but Im going to focus 
my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says it provides cover for storm damage to buildings other than loss or 
damage to specified items, which includes fences.
Mr B disputes the Trellis, the subject of the claim, can be treated as a fence.
A fence isnt defined in the policy, so Ive applied the general definition, which is a 
structure that divides an area of land, made of wood and supported with posts.
Having looked at a photo Mr B provided to Ageas, I can see the trellis in question is 
supported by posts and divides areas of the garden, so I dont think Ageas 
conclusion that this was acting as a fence is obviously wrong. Therefore, I dont think 
its acted unreasonably in applying the exclusion.
Ive considered Mr Bs further submission about relevant law concerning fixtures and 
fittings. But I dont consider this relevant here. The policy defines buildings to include 
fixtures and specifically mentions fences. However, the policy also sets out what it 
wont cover loss or damage for. 
As Ive set out above, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to consider the trellis was 
acting as a fence, and therefore I dont think its acted unfairly in applying the 
exclusion. And I think Ageas has set this out in a clear and reasonable way.  
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman