DRN-3178726
Complaint
Mr S has complained about an overdraft and subsequent limit increases Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) provided to him. He says the overdraft was unaffordable and led to 
him getting into debt.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Halifax had told us. And she thought 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly in relation to providing the 
overdraft or increasing the limit. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax says it agreed to Mr S applications after it obtained information on his income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit search. And from what I can see, Halifax did ask Mr S 
about his income as well as some information about hid expenditure before providing the 
overdraft and limit increases. There was nothing in the information provided which 
suggested that what was being advanced was unaffordable.
However, Im mindful that Mr S made a number of applications within a short period of time. 
And in these circumstances, I think that Halifax should have taken a closer look at his 
circumstances before agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Mr S statements, in the lead up to the overdraft being 
provided and the limit increases, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this 
period of time. I dont know if the information Mr S provided was checked but the amount 
going into his account was broadly in line with what he declared he received. 
Furthermore, there wasnt anything in Mr S account transactions prior to the applications 
which contradicted what Mr S had declared about his expenditure either. Equally there 
wasnt anything to indicate Mrs R was experiencing financial difficulty before being provided 
with the overdraft either.
To be clear, Im not saying Mr S wasnt in financial difficulty at this stage - its possible he 
was. What Im saying is, this isnt immediately obvious from the conduct of his account. As 
this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about the bank statements not 
contradicting Mr S income and expenditure declarations, Im satisfied the information 
available suggested Halifax was reasonably entitled to conclude Mr S could repay what he 
was being lent within a reasonable period of time. 
I know that Mr S position did worsen. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mr S expenditure, nonetheless his indebtedness grew because significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account went 
from the account.  And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say 
that Halifax should have known this would happen. 
Its also worth me explaining that when Mr S did get in contact to explain that he was 
struggling Halifax managed to agree a loan with affordable payments, which would allow him 
to repay what he owed more gradually. It also removed the overdraft from Mr S account at 
this point too. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Halifax did exercise forbearance and due 
consideration when Mr S explained he was having difficulty repaying what he owed.
So overall while I have doubts as to whether Halifaxs checks, for all of the applications, did 
go far enough, bearing in mind what Mr S statements in the period leading up to the 
applications showed, I dont think that Halifax treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his overdraft or his limit increases. 
I also think that Halifax didnt treat Mr S unfairly when he explained he was struggling to 
repay what he owed too. Bearing all of this in mind, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman