DRN-3786908
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way that Better Health Insurance Advice, an appointed 
representative of Vitality Corporate Services Limited, administered her private medical 
insurance policies.
For ease of reading, Ill simply refer to Better Health.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set them out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mrs S held a personal private medical insurance policy which was underwritten by an insurer 
Ill call A. The policy was due to renew in January 2022.
In December 2021, Better Health got in touch with Mrs S to discuss her policy needs with 
her. Mrs S told Better Healths adviser about the cover she already held with A and that her 
policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis. She explained that shed previously had right 
knee surgery, which was excluded by As moratorium, but that her left knee was covered.
Better Healths adviser told Mrs S that the best quote for a new policy had been provided by 
an insurer Ill call V and would also be underwritten on a moratorium basis. He 
recommended that Mrs S should start the policy in late December 2021, cancelling her 
policy with A before it expired. He told Mrs S that if she completed and returned a 
cancellation form, Better Health would cancel the policy with A on her behalf.
Mrs S agreed to take-up Better Healths recommendation and it sent her the relevant 
paperwork, along with the cancellation form for her old policy on 14 December 2021. Due to 
postal delays, Mrs S didnt receive the paperwork until around a week later, which she 
completed and returned to Better Health. Upon receipt of the documentation on 23 
December 2021, Better Health sent the cancellation form to A by post on the same day, 
along with a request for a pro-rata refund of premium.
Better Health audited its advisers calls with Mrs S. It noted that hed read out the wrong
underwriting information and that under the terms of Vs moratorium, it was likely that Mrs S
left knee would also be excluded from cover. The adviser got in touch with Mrs S to let her
know and on 19 January 2022, she decided to cancel the policy. Better Health asked V to
cancel the new policy and to pay Mrs S a full refund of premium.
Mrs S was unhappy with Better Healths administration of her policies. Her policy with A
hadnt been cancelled by A and not only had she not received a pro-rata refund of premium;
it had also debited an annual premium for a new 2022 policy. She said that another broker
had told her that Better Health wasnt able to cancel the policy with A. And there was also a
delay in her receiving a refund of premium from V.
Better Health contacted A. Previously, the agreed cancellation process between the two
businesses had been that if Better Health hadnt sold a policy, A would only accept
cancellation forms from Better Health by post. However, it agreed that going forward, it
would accept these forms by email. Better Health resent the form by email and on 21
January 2022, A confirmed it had backdated the cancellation of the policy to December
2021. A paid Mrs S the pro-rata refund for December 2021, together with a refund of her
annual premium for the 2022-23 policy year.
And Better Health chased V in early February 2022. V let Better Health know that the new
policy had been cancelled from inception and that Mrs S would receive a full refund of the
premium shed paid.
As Mrs S remained unhappy with Better Healths actions, she asked us to look into her
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She thought Better Health
had acted in line with its agreed procedures when it asked A to cancel Mrs S existing policy.
And she didnt think it could be held responsible for any failure on As part to action that
request. She accepted that Better Health had given Mrs S the wrong information about Vs
moratorium terms. But she noted that Mrs S had received a full refund of her premium from
V and she didnt think Mrs S had suffered any other loss as a result of Better Healths
actions. So she didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mrs S disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She didnt believe
that Better Health had been limited to sending cancellation notices to A by post, as she said
A had told her this wasnt true. And she said that shed believed Better Health would actually
cancel the policy, rather than just request cancellation. She said that she had cancelled the
policy with V  it told her that Better Health hadnt sent in anything. Additionally, V had
informed her that there wouldnt have been any exclusion for her left knee. So she felt Better
Health had prejudiced her position with V, as the policy wouldve been suitable for her. She
also felt Better Health had misled her and that she shouldnt have cancelled the policy with A
before it expired.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt plan to direct Better Health to take any action. I said:
First, Id like to thank Mrs S and Better Health for their detailed submissions to our service.
Whilst Ive summarised the background to the complaint and the evidence Ive seen, Id like
to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. Within this
decision though, I havent commented on each point Mrs S has made and nor do our rules
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It seems to me that there are two main points for me to consider. Firstly, Better Healths
administration of Mrs S policy with A. And secondly, the advice it gave her to take out a new
policy with V. Ill address each in turn.
The cancellation of the policy with A
Its common ground that at the point Better Health got in touch with Mrs S, she held a policy
with A, which was due to run until January 2022. Theres also no dispute that Better Health
told Mrs A that if she completed the cancellation form, it would send this on to A on her
behalf, both to cancel the policy and obtain a pro-rata refund of premium.
Better Health has provided us with a copy of the cancellation form it received from Mrs S on
23 December 2021. It also says this was sent on to A on the same day, by post. Its
maintained that at that point, its agreed cancellation procedure with A was that cancellation
forms could only be sent by post, if it hadnt sold the policy in question.It's clear that Mrs S strongly disputes what Better Health has said on this point and shes
questioned why the form wasnt originally sent by email. Ive thought about this very
carefully. Better Health has sent us a copy of email correspondence between it and A dating
from 20 January 2022, following the delay in the cancellation of the policy and As debit of
the 2022-23 policy premium. Better Healths adviser emailed A to ask for urgent help, stating
it had written to A to request cancellation on 23 December 2021, but that this hadnt been
actioned.
Ive looked closely at the following correspondence between Better Health and A. A said that
thered been instances of the forms being lost in recent times, so it queried whether the
forms could be emailed rather than posted. Better Health responded to say:
I am more than happy to do that as long as the team are happy to receive these from us on
cases where we are not currently the broker of the plan in question.
On 21 January 2022, A confirmed:
Good news, these are fine to email over to the inbox.
As long as they are signed by the policy holder we can action the request.
Hopefully this will mean less issues with missing forms!
Based on this evidence, it seems to me that prior to 21 January 2022, the agreed
cancellation process between A and Better Health in circumstances like these had been to
send the cancellation form by post. While Mrs S may have been given different information
by A following her complaint, Im currently persuaded that Better Health was acting in line
with its standard, agreed procedures when it posted the cancellation form to A.
It isnt clear whether the form was lost in the post or why the cancellation request wasnt
actioned by A in December 2021. But I dont think I could fairly find that this was due to any
fault or inaction on Better Healths part. It told Mrs S that it would send on the form to A to
arrange policy cancellation and the pro-rata refund. And this is what it seems to have done.
I dont doubt how frustrating it was when not only did Mrs S learn that the policy hadnt been
cancelled by A, but then a further annual premium was deducted. However, the evidence
indicates its more likely than not that Better Health did request the cancellation in line with
its operating process and very promptly after it initially received the form. It also took prompt
action to ensure A did cancel the policy and refund Mrs S the amounts which were due to
her after it learned this hadnt happened in December 2021. I accept too that as Better
Health hadnt sold Mrs S policy with A to her, it would likely have had little way of knowing
whether the policy had been cancelled or not, unless Mrs S gave it an update.
In the circumstances, I dont think Better Health mal-administered Mrs S policy or gave her
incorrect information. While the original broker may also have chased things up with A, Im
presently satisfied that Better Health did ask A to cancel the policy on Mrs S behalf, in line
with agreed procedures.
The sale of the policy with V
Better Health advised Mrs S to take out the policy with V. That means it needed to make
sure it was suitable for her. And it also needed to give her enough clear, fair and not
misleading information about the policy to help her to decide whether or not to take it out.
In this case, Better Health says that it gave Mrs S incorrect information about the policy
which may have made it unsuitable for her. Mrs S now says the policy was suitable for her.So Ive gone on to think about this.
During the sales call, Mrs S and Better Healths adviser discussed previous right knee
surgery shed undergone. They also discussed that under the terms of As moratorium, Mrs
S right knee was excluded from cover but her left knee wasnt. The adviser read out the
wrong underwriting term to Mrs S from Vs policy, which broadly indicated that the cover with
it would be on the same terms as As moratorium.
But this wasnt the case. While I dont have a copy of Mrs S specific policy terms, Ive looked
at the policy terms for the same brand of policy taken out before February 2021 and after
May 2022. The moratorium terms are largely mirrored in both, so it seems likely that Mrs S
policy terms wouldve been drafted in the same way. The moratorium says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition
In this case, Better Health was concerned that V would treat any claims for Mrs S left knee
as related to the treatment shed previously undergone for her right knee. Given the wording
of the moratorium above, I think this was a reasonable concern for it raise with Mrs S once it
identified its error. As Mrs S opted to cancel the policy once she learned that claims for her
left knee might not be covered, it does appear that holding such cover was very important to
her. And that therefore, had the adviser correctly explained the moratorium to Mrs S at the
start, it seems most likely that she wouldnt have gone ahead with taking out the policy with
V. On that basis, I do think the policy was likely unsuitable for her.
So Ive gone on to consider whether I think Mrs S lost out financially as a result of this
mistake. Once the error had been identified, its clear that Better Health contacted V straight
away to cancel the policy and to request a full refund of premium. While this took V over two
weeks to action, I dont think Better Health can reasonably be held responsible for this delay.
It chased up the refund a couple of weeks later and V confirmed that the policy had been
cancelled from the start and a full refund of premium would be paid. As such then, I dont
think I could fairly say that Mrs S has lost out financially. Thats because by refunding the full
premium, V placed her back in the position she wouldve been had she never taken out the
policy with it.
Mrs S has now complained that Better Healths adviser misled her about promotional
discounts with V if she cancelled the policy with A ahead of expiry. Ive listened to the
relevant calls and it seems to me that the adviser explained that if Mrs S cancelled the policy
ahead of expiry, any new quote from V would be based upon the 2021-22 premium with A,
with might be lower than its renewal premium. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think this was
unreasonable or misleading information.
Overall, whilst its clear Mrs S has been disappointed by Better Healths administration of her
policies with it, I dont think shes suffered a financial loss as a result of the error I identified.
And neither do I think shes suffered material distress and inconvenience as a result of any
failing on Better Healths part which would lead me to award compensation. This means I
dont intend to direct Better Health to do anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mrs S sent me significant further submissions, including phone calls and letters; which Ill 
summarise:Mrs S had begun a moratorium policy in 2019. The policies, with A and then 
afterwards with V, were both set up on continued underwriting terms. Neither the 
policy with A nor the policy with V excluded her knees from cover;
Better Health had repeatedly told Mrs S that it would cancel her policy  the adviser 
hadnt told her shed need to complete a cancellation form;
Mrs S had cancelled her direct debit for the policy with V on 19 January 2022. It had 
written to her to query this action. Better Health hadnt responded to Vs requests for 
information and it was on 3 February 2022 that Mrs S spoke to V and agreed both 
the policy cancellation and a refund of premium;
A had confirmed that there was no barrier to Better Health cancelling a policy which 
had been set-up by another broker by email, so long as a cancellation form was 
attached;
Better Health hadnt cancelled the policy with A  another broker had done so;
The policy with V had appeared suitable. Mrs S felt Better Healths auditors had 
perhaps misunderstood her conversations with its adviser, but her right knee hadnt 
been excluded from cover under the policy with A. And it was over three years since 
the start date of the original moratorium and so she believed a claim for her knee 
would now be covered in any event;
Another broker had found a cheaper and more comprehensive policy with V. If Better 
Health hadnt cold-called Mrs S, shed have waited for the other brokers 
recommendation, which was a far better choice;
Better Health had misled Mrs S about the advantages of changing the policy renewal 
date;
Mrs S had suffered a financial loss, as around £2500 was deducted from her account 
and not returned for several days. This had caused her embarrassment. And the last 
few months have been very stressful for her.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, I still dont think Better Health has 
treated her unfairly and Ill explain why. As I explained above, while Ive considered all Mrs S 
has said and sent me, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues within this decision.
The basis of cover
Mrs S has queried my reference to her policies with A and V being set-up on a moratorium 
basis. I agree with Mrs S that both policies were set-up on continued underwriting terms. 
However, the underwriting was based on a continued moratorium, with a moratorium start 
date of 20 January 2019. A specific exclusion for a lung condition had been added. So Mrs 
S cover with V wouldve been subject to Vs own moratorium terms, with a moratorium start 
date of 20 January 2019.
For completeness, Ive set out Vs moratorium terms below:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice aboutthat condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover that condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
Given Mrs S moratorium began in January 2019, her moratorium period with V wouldve 
also begun on that date and wouldve applied to claims for conditions shed suffered from in 
the five years beforehand. And given the moratorium terms that applied, Mrs S wouldve 
needed to have been two years trouble-free from any right knee-related problems at the 
point the policy with V was sold to her in order to be covered.
I appreciate Mrs S point that her right knee wasnt specifically excluded from cover  by A or 
V, or indeed, by her current insurer. But based on the information she gave Better Healths 
adviser; I think it was reasonable for him to conclude that claims for her right knee were 
likely to have fallen within the moratorium. 
And Better Health has now provided me with a call it had with a member of Vs claims team. 
During the call, Better Health asked whether claims for Mrs S left knee were likely to have 
been affected by the moratorium, given the previous treatment shed received for her right 
knee. V told Better Health that claims for Mrs S left knee would need a referral for 
consideration of the available medical evidence to consider whether any left knee treatment 
was related to her right knee. It said it couldnt guarantee that claims for Mrs S left knee 
would be covered. As such then, I dont find that Better Healths auditors made a mistake in 
concluding that the adviser had made an error in the way he sold the policy.
The cancellation of the policies
Mrs S has provided me with evidence from A which says that it wouldnt have only accepted 
cancellation requests by post where cancellation didnt come from the original broker. I dont 
doubt that being given conflicting information by A and Better Health has caused Mrs S 
frustration and concern. And Ive thought about the evidence very carefully.
But as Ive set out in my provisional decision, Ive seen a copy of the email trail between A 
and Better Health. And it does appear that prior to 21 January 2022, the agreed process 
between A and Better Health for cancellation in these circumstances was that A required 
Better Health to send the forms by post. The evidence from the time shows that it was on 21 
January 2022 that the process was changed to allow cancellation by email. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, I think that by sending the form and cancellation request by post on 
23 December 2021, the date it says it received the cancellation form from Mrs S, Better 
Health acted in line with the standard, agreed procedures. And while I appreciate that A says 
it didnt receive the cancellation request, I remain persuaded that its more likely than not that 
it was sent. I cant fairly or reasonably hold Better Health responsible if A failed to receive or 
action such a request.  This means then that I dont think I could fairly find that Better Health 
was responsible for A debiting Mrs S premium despite her earlier request to cancel the 
policy.
It seems too that once Better Health learned that Mrs S policy hadnt been cancelled by A, it 
did take prompt and reasonable steps to ensure that the policy cancellation was actioned, 
and the premiums were refunded. As I explained, Better Health wasnt the holding broker of the policy with A and so I dont think it wouldve been in a position to know whether the policy 
was cancelled or not unless Mrs S provided it with an update. By Mrs S account, the holding 
broker had already been in contact with A at this point to cancel the policy with it.
Mrs S feels strongly too that Better Health failed to take reasonable steps to cancel the 
policy with V. I accept that Mrs S cancelled her direct debit with V on 19 January 2022, 
which wouldve prompted V to get in touch with Mrs S irrespective of any action taken by 
Better Health. But Ive seen an email Better Health sent to V on 19 January 2022, which 
asked it to cancel Mrs S policy. And Better Health has also sent me a copy of a voicemail it 
left its contact at V on 20 January 2022, the day after its initial cancellation request, to chase 
this up. I appreciate V might not have cancelled the policy until 3 February 2022, and I note 
Mrs S says the cancellation happened because she contacted V on that date. But Ive seen 
an email from Better Health on 3 February 2022 re-requesting policy cancellation and a 
refund of Mrs S policy from inception. On that basis, I find Better Health took appropriate 
and reasonable steps to cancel the policy in good time.
I understand Mrs S is unhappy because she thinks she was misled as to a potential 
advantage of changing providers ahead of the policy with A expiring. But I havent seen 
enough evidence to show me this was most likely the case. And while Mrs S other broker 
may have offered another policy she ultimately concluded was more attractive than the 
policy Better Health had offered, I cant fairly hold it responsible for her choice to proceed 
with its policy option.
Overall, I appreciate that the administration of Mrs S policies hasnt been straightforward, 
and I do understand that shes suffered significant frustration. But in order for me to find that 
Better Health needs to pay her compensation, Id need to be satisfied that its made errors 
which have caused Mrs S material distress and inconvenience. And for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont think Better Health has acted unfairly or reasonably and nor do I think its 
made significant errors in the way it sold or administered Mrs S policy. Id add too that I 
dont find that Better Health has caused Mrs S a financial loss which it needs to put right. So 
it follows that Im not directing it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman