DRN-3545738
The complaint
Mrs S complains about delays in processing an instruction sent to Standard Life Savings 
Limited (Standard Life) to disinvest £100,000 from her portfolio. 
What happened
Mrs S held an investment portfolio with Standard Life, from which she made regular 
withdrawals. On 28 February 2020, Mrs S made a request through her independent financial 
adviser (IFA) to withdraw £100,000 from the portfolio. The request was made to Standard 
Life on 2 March 2020 and the IFA requested a payment date of 16 March 2020. 
Mrs S became aware that this request had not completed on 16 March 2020. Its common 
ground that the transaction was cancelled by Standard Life. Mrs S says she didnt receive 
the funds until 30 March 2020 and lost out as a result of the delays, as the value of the funds 
reduced over time.
Standard Life say theyve done nothing wrong and the delays were down to the IFA and user 
error. Standard Life highlight that the payment date was selected by the IFA and they should 
have known the instruction was unlikely to succeed because of another transaction, namely, 
an auto-disinvestment for adviser charges. It was a feature of the account that auto-
disinvestment was triggered when cash funds in the wrap cash account were too low to meet 
the adviser charges. At the time of the request for the £100,000 disinvestment, an auto-
disinvestment instruction was already in place as the funds in the account were insufficient 
to meet the advisers charges. As the platform could not action two sell trades for the same 
asset, the later instruction (for disinvestment of £100,000) was cancelled. Standard Life say 
this process was known or should have been known to the IFA. Usually, a withdrawal failure 
would be notified within seven days, but in this instance, Mrs S was aware of the failure on 
16 March 2020. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought Standard Life had provided 
information about the auto-disinvest feature to pay adviser charges when funds in the wrap 
account were low. The IFA knew or ought to have known when their charges were paid from 
Mrs Ss account as regular statements were provided, in addition, the IFA could monitor the 
clients cash balances on the platform and had access to a dedicated account manager. 
Further, our investigator thought Standard Life had provided information about the correct 
timeframe for completion of payments, whereby internal payments from an investment to a 
wrap cash account took six working days. As it was part of Standard Lifes process that two 
sell instructions for the same asset could not be completed at the same time, our investigator 
thought that Standard Life did nothing wrong in cancelling the £100,000 disinvestment 
instruction. It was for the IFA to be aware of the how the platform worked. 
Our investigator agreed that it was reasonable for Standard Life to make advisers aware if 
an instruction failed and thought a seven-day period was not unreasonable. And in this 
instance, Mrs S was aware of the failure on 16 March 2020. In light of these findings, our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with the view and was concerned that her adviser and Standard Life 
continued to blame each other. As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that we provide an informal, dispute resolution service. We have 
no regulatory or disciplinary powers, which means we cant tell a business how to operate or 
impose any penalty. Thats the role of the regulator.
As Standard Life was providing an execution only service, it acted on the instructions of    
Mrs S and/or her adviser. In this instance, the instructions came from the IFA acting on Mrs 
Ss behalf. Mrs S gave the instruction on 28 February and the request for disinvestment was 
made on 2 March with a payment date of 16 March. 
Selecting this date, meant that the assets were due to be sold around the same time as an 
auto-disinvest instruction, which had been triggered to pay the IFAs charges. As two sales 
for the same asset could not proceed at the same time on the platform, I dont think 
Standard Life did anything wrong in cancelling the second instruction. The issue is whether 
Standard Life gave clear information about this process.
Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that Standard Life provided information to the IFA 
about the auto-disinvestment feature. Ive seen the content of a presentation from 2013 to 
advisers about the feature and the terms and conditions for the platform confirmed that a 
wrap cash account was automatically opened and could be used to pay adviser charges. 
Its agreed that Standard Life also sent statements for both the portfolio and cash account to 
the IFA, in which twice monthly auto-disinvestments could be seen to provide funds in the 
account for the adviser charges. The adviser charges were then paid between 6th-9th of each 
month. The IFA also had access to an online facility to manage cash balances in an account. 
So, I think it more likely than not that the IFA knew or ought to have known when the auto-
disinvestment was taking place, especially as the process was solely to pay their charges.
Ive also seen the information provided on Standard Lifes website explained,  If your client 
has an existing standing sell and you are changing the investment strategy please cancel 
this prior to setting up a new standing sell instruction. So, I think Standard Life gave 
adequate information for the IFA to understand that these steps were required.
Standard Life have also said that it was for the IFA, acting on Mrs Ss behalf, to check 
whether any pending sales were in progress before giving the withdrawal instruction. I dont 
think thats unreasonable given that Standard Life offered an execution only service. Had 
that check been made, I think its more likely than not that the sale under the auto-
disinvestment would have been identified.
Standard Life have confirmed that it was open to the IFA to select an earlier date for funds to 
be paid into Mrs Ss account. Under the guidance for withdrawals, available to the IFA, it was 
explained that internal payments from an investment to the wrap cash account took six 
working days to settle. So, it would have been open to the IFA to have selected an earlier 
payment date. On this occasion had the IFA selected an earlier payment date, such as 10 
March, the conflict with the auto-disinvest instruction could have been avoided as Standard 
Life have confirmed that the sale would have commenced straightaway.
Ive considered whether Standard Life ought to have done more when the instruction failed. 
It was Standard Lifes usual process to generate a work demand if a withdrawal request failed. This would be actioned within a week, whereby the adviser would be informed about 
the failure. I dont think that was an unreasonable timeframe and Ive noted that in this 
instance, Mrs S was aware on 16 March that the transaction had cancelled. Further, theres 
nothing to show that the IFA checked whether the instruction had completed. So, whilst Ive 
seen that Standard Life didnt notify the IFA about the withdrawal cancellation because a 
second request was made, I dont think that made a material difference as Mrs S was 
already aware of the cancellation.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Standard Life did anything wrong, so 
I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman