DRN-3127580
The complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2016, Mr T acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr T was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £157. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £7,371.
Mr T says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included seeing copies of Mr Ts payslips to verify 
his income and carrying out a credit check to assess his credit worthiness and indebtedness. 
It says that the credit search showed no county court judgement or defaults on Mr Ts report 
and it says Mr T signed the customer declaration saying that the agreement was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr T.
Moneybarn requested copies of the bank statements relied on in the view and these were 
sent. It didnt provide any further response to our adjudicators view. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn gathered payslips to verify Mr Ts income. His 
income at this time was around £1,550. Moneybarn didnt ask Mr T about his expenditure. 
Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ts regular living 
expenses were. Without knowing what Mr Ts regular committed expenditure was 
Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed although it has noted that 
the check showed Mr T didnt have any county court judgements or defaults recorded. Ive 
therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr T (this is from April 2018). I think 
this gives a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the 
application it shows that although Mr T appeared to be managing his accounts, he had other 
credit commitments and had several short term loans outstanding. I think this ought to have 
indicated that Mr T was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ts financial 
circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about Mr Ts 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Moneybarn 
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ts bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr T was paying around £340 for his phone, internet, utilities and insurance along 
with over £550 towards his credit commitments. These costs were before food and other 
transport costs. Mr T had taken out over £1,800 of short term loans in the previous two 
months that would need to be repaid in the subsequent months. Mr T was also making 
regular use of gambling websites. I think this shows that Mr T was struggling financially and 
wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement without financial 
difficulty or having to borrow further. Had Moneybarn completed proportionate checks, I think 
its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act fairly by approving the 
finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr T should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £4,000. Anything Mr T has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ts complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr T has made in excess of £4,000, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr T asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman