DRN-3033285
The complaint
Mr W and the estate of Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold 
them Select, Gold and Silver packaged bank accounts in September 2000, September 2001 
and June 2008, respectively.
Mr W says that amongst other things the accounts were taken out without his consent, he 
was told that the accounts would help his credit score and he tried to downgrade the 
accounts on a number of occasions.
What happened
Lloyds objected to us looking at the sale of the Gold and Silver accounts as it believed the 
complaint was made too late. A decision was issued on this and we concluded that we could 
not look at these two upgrades. An adjudicator looked at the sale of the Select account and 
he didnt think that this account had been mis-sold. Mr W disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. This decision will only be looking at the sale of 
the Select account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Select account mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr W was given a fair choice to 
take out the Select packaged bank account.
Mr W has said that the Select account was taken out without his consent and he was told at 
the time that it would improve his credit score. I have carefully considered this. Lloyds have 
been unable to provide much evidence from the time the account was taken out. But this is 
unsurprising considering that this account was taken out over 20 years ago. Notes from 
before the account was taken out show that an overdraft was added to the account. They 
also show that a personal loan was taken out for a car purchase. So I would question why 
Mr W wouldve believed that his credit score needed to be improved. In addition, as he had 
held a fee free account for a number of years, I think he wouldve been aware that fee free 
accounts were available and an option for him.
My understanding is that in 2000, the Select account cost £4 per month, and one of the 
benefits it provided was a £50 fee free and interest free overdraft facility. Whereas an 
overdraft on a fee free account cost £5 a month to use. So provided the account holder 
stayed within the £50 fee free limit they were potentially saving money having the Select 
account. It also came with breakdown cover.
So, given the contemporaneous evidence from the time of the sale it seems as if the benefits 
that the account came with couldve been attractive to Mr W as the car loan suggests he had 
a car and he held an overdraft at the time of the upgrade. So overall, I think that it is more 
likely that Mr W agreed to the upgrade, albeit in circumstances he no longer recalls, as the 
account benefits were of use to him at the time. 
Mr W and Lloyds say that a personal recommendation was made, so Lloyds had to ensure 
that the Select account was a reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time. In this 
instance, as said above, I think the major two benefits that the account came with couldve 
been useful to him and therefore I think that the recommendation by Lloyds was not 
unreasonable
In addition to making sure the account was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr W 
important information about the account. Its not clear what information he was given, and I 
accept that he may not have been given all of the important information about the account. 
But Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
Mr W says he frequently tried to downgrade the account but was unable to. I cant see any 
record of this, but I do note the account was downgraded around a year later, shortly before 
the Gold account was taken out. This suggests he was able to downgrade the account when 
he wished.
I understand that this will be frustrating to Mr W and I accept with the benefit of hindsight the 
account may not have provided value for money. But this does not mean it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have sold it in the first instance and overall I dont think the Select account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws and the estate of Mrs Ws 
complaint about the Select account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman