DRN-1631144
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) have unfairly charged her for 
amending and later cancelling her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W held a home insurance policy with AJG that she took out in 2018. Her policy renewed 
in 2019, and she later sought to amend it to include contents insurance. However, she was 
unhappy when AJG tried to charge her an administration fee of £37.50 for amending the 
policy mid-term, so she decided to cancel the policy altogether. 
Mrs W was further dissatisfied when AJG told her that she would incur a cancellation fee of 
£67.45 upon cancelling her contract prematurely. She complained as she says AJG never 
made her aware of such charges when she took out the insurance. But AJG said they 
informed her of this during the initial call where the policy was sold in 2018, as well as in the 
policy documentation that followed at the time and at renewal. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. He was satisfied that the charges had 
been made clear by the insurer both over the phone and in the policy documentation, and 
considered that they had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. Mrs W 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
Having considered the evidence available, I think Mrs W ought reasonably to have been 
aware of the charges that would be applicable for both amending and cancelling her policy 
after the 14 day cooling off period.
First, I can see she that AJG made Mrs W aware of the charges in 2018 before she agreed 
to take out the policy. The agent told her:
If you were to cancel or amend the policy after 14 days we do charge a fee of £35
Mrs W even asked the agent to repeat what he said, at which point he reiterated that a £35 
charge would apply if the policy was cancelled or amended after the cooling off period. Mrs 
W acknowledged this and the policy was subsequently issued. 
AJG say that the administration charge was further set out in the policy documentation. The 
terms and conditions state:
How are we paid for our services?Payment for our services may be by way of:

b) Administration charges in addition to any insurance premiums for the 
administration, arranging, amending, renewing and cancelling of any policy of 
insurance

Details of any fees/charges will be declared to you in advance of them being incurred 
so that you are able to make an informed decision.
Given that the agent declared the administration charge to Mrs W during the inception call in 
2018, Im satisfied she was in a position to make an informed choice about whether to 
proceed with the policy or not.  AJG said that the charge increased from £35 in 2018 to 
£37.50 in 2019, and Im satisfied this was also made clear in the renewal documentation that 
was sent to Mrs W:
How do I cancel the contract?

If you wish to cancel this policy outside the 14 day cooling off period, you can do so 
at any time. Any refund due will be calculated on a pro-rata basis. A cancellation fee 
of £37.50 will also be applied.
 
Mrs W requested that AJG cancel her policy during the phone call she had them in 
November 2019. As a result, she was charged £67.45 which was made up of the £37.50 
cancellation fee, the £37.50 renewal fee, less a pro-rata refund of £7.55. Im satisfied that 
these charges have been applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
insurance contract, and that Mrs W ought reasonably to have been aware of them. As a 
result, I do not think AJG have applied the charges unfairly.
I understand that Mrs W was not in a position to pay the charges when she wanted to amend 
and later cancel her policy. But as outlined by the investigator, AJG have said they would be 
willing to discuss an affordable repayment plan if Mrs W contacts them directly to discuss 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman