DRN-4051859
The complaint
Mr R complains about changes to a credit card account he holds with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
which meant he incurred charges and interest he wasnt expecting.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC admit they made changes to Mr Rs credit card account which meant he incurred 
interest and charges on a type of transaction where that previously wasnt the case. HSBC 
agree they didnt notify Mr R of the change when they shouldve done so. 
When dealing with our Investigator HSBC agreed to refund a total of £189.98 in interest and 
charges. This is the amount charged in cash advance fees and interest for the transactions.
Looking at the statements Im satisfied the amount is a full refund of interest and charges 
incurred on the transactions.
HSBC also offered to pay £50 for the inconvenience caused by what happened.  
Ive considered everything provided by Mr R and I think the £50 is a fair offer to apologise for 
what happened and the inconvenience caused. Mr R contacted HSBC several times to sort 
things out and was put to some inconvenience complaining. And I know it has taken some 
time for the full refund to be agreed. I think the £50 fairly recognises the trouble caused. 
Having carefully thought about everything that happened Im satisfied the offer is a fair way 
of resolving the complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund a total of £189.98 to the credit card account and also pay 
£50 for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has made an offer to refund £189.98 and pay £50 for the inconvenience 
caused and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr R a total of £239.98.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman