DRN-3848291
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In October 2020, Miss Bs current account received two payments of £10,000.00 into her 
account. £15,000.00 of these funds went on to be transferred to a third parties and some of 
the remaining funds were transferred to another account in Miss Bs name. 
Santander subsequently received notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Bs account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Santander reviewed Miss Bs account 
and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Upon learning of the fraud marker, Miss B complained. Santander looked at Miss Bs 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss B remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss B is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss B was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss B allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Bs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little 
more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Bs 
account in October 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss B was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss B has told us that she was the victim of a large fraud in 2019 and had over £15,000.00 
taken from her. She said that she reported this matter to the authorities at the time and was 
then blackmailed, by those who had defrauded her, into participating in the activity thats the 
subject of this complaint with threats against her life. Miss B has been unable to provide any 
information supporting a police report having been made in 2019 or evidence of the threats 
shes mentioned.   
Ive thought about what Miss B has said. But while Miss B says that she was unable to 
provide evidence to support the credits made to her account in October 2020 and Santander 
closed her accounts without giving her the opportunity to explain, Santander did ask Miss B 
to explain the source of these funds and she said that the funds were paid to her for work 
that shed carried out for the sender. I also understand that she also provided a screenshot 
of a purported email to support that shed carried out the work. So Im satisfied that Miss B 
was given the opportunity to explain matters and what she told Santander in 2020 is 
inconsistent, with her current version of events.  
Given Miss Bs inconsistency on this matter and her attempt to provide evidence to support a 
version of events she now accepts is untrue, its difficult for me to place much weight on 
what she now says without anything at all to support it. And Im satisfied that Miss B has 
been given ample opportunity to provide the information to support what shes now saying to 
us. I say this while especially mindful that ta reasonable proportion of the fraudulent funds 
were transferred into another account in Miss Bs name. And this is more consistent with the 
actions of someone taking part in the activity to make a financial gain rather than someone 
who did so as a result of being coerced with threats.   
Im afraid Miss Bs inconsistency, which makes it difficult to place much weight on what shes 
now saying, together with her inability to provide anything to corroborate her current version 
of events, means that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not Miss B was complicit in her account receiving 
fraudulent funds which were then dispersed.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Bs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss B was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker 
in the circumstances that it did. I now turn to the closure of Miss Bs account. The terms and conditions of Miss Bs account 
permitted Santander to close it immediately where it was used in any way to give rise to 
reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think 
Santander was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss Bs account had been used for 
fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud 
prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Miss Bs account without notice. And Im therefore 
not upholding Miss Bs complaint on this basis either.
So overall I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards Miss B and Im not upholding 
this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B  especially in light of 
the ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope Miss B will 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to. Furthermore, Miss B might find that shes able to open an account with another 
bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or 
any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman