DRN-2093692
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Santander UK Plc didnt pursue their chargeback claim.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr and Mrs D but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr D only 
throughout my decision, as he has made most of the submissions in the complaint.
In 2018, Mr D sent money to a merchant which Ill call X in order to fund a trading account 
through which he hoped to trade in cryptocurrencies. But he says that X didnt provide the 
services and hes since discovered that it isnt authorised to do so. He says X wasnt ever 
capable of providing the services it had offered and that hes been the victim of a scam. Mr D 
asked X to return his funds, which X failed to do. So, he asked Santander to raise a 
chargeback claim for him, in the hope of recovering his money that way.
Santander declined the claim because Mr D wasnt able to provide the evidence which they 
say was needed in order to pursue it. But Mr D says that the information Santander asked 
for would be needed to support a chargeback claim based on misrepresentation. He says 
they should have pursued the claim on the basis that the services hadnt been received from 
X. He says hed provided information to support a claim on that basis, but Santander didnt 
pursue it.
Mr D says that X couldnt ever have placed his funds in the trading account as the trading 
account didnt exist. He says hes proved that with supporting documentation. So, he says 
that Santander should have raised the chargeback claim. He says that, because they didnt, 
hes lost the opportunity to recover his money. He says Santander should be accountable for 
this. But Santander say they considered raising the claim on both grounds and that there 
was little chance of success in either case.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 24 July 2020. In that decision, I 
explained that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Neither Mr D nor Santander have put 
forward any comments or further information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at everything again and I havent seen anything which changes my mind about 
the appropriate outcome here. So, although I sympathise with Mr D and the situation he 
finds himself in, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
The starting point here is that customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and 
Santander dont have to attempt it just because a customer asks them to. But Id expect 
them to try if theres good reason to do so. When considering a chargeback request, 
Santander are bound by the rules of the card scheme. They arent obliged to submit a claim 
if they dont think the case fits within the rules, or if they think the claim is unlikely to be 
successful. 
The card schemes rules contain numerous reason codes, under which claims can be 
submitted. The reason codes Mr D has referred to in this complaint are misrepresentation 
and services not received. He says that Santander only considered a claim under the 
misrepresentation code. He says that services not received was the more appropriate 
ground. Im satisfied that Santander considered the chargeback request in the context of 
both these reason codes, as well as others. Im also satisfied that their decision not to 
pursue the chargeback was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Santander say that, when dealing with chargeback requests, they try to process them using 
the reason code which will have the greatest chance of success. They say that the most 
appropriate reason code in Mr Ds case was misrepresentation. I agree. The card schemes 
rules specifically include the following as falling within this reason code: Investment 
products or services (for example: binary options or foreign exchange trading), where the 
Merchant refuses to allow the Cardholder to withdraw available balances.
Each reason code has criteria which must be met in order for the claim to be accepted by 
the card scheme. These include details of the specific evidence which is required to support 
the claim. Santander asked Mr D for the information which the card scheme requires for 
misrepresentation claims. Mr D wasnt able to provide this information, so Santander say 
they couldnt take the claim any further. I wouldnt expect Santander to pursue a claim which 
they knew to have little prospect of success. So, I think their decision not to take this further 
was reasonable.
Mr D says that Santander should have pursued the claim under the reason code that the 
services hadnt been received. From the information available, Im satisfied that Santander 
considered the claim on this basis. They didnt think Mr Ds transactions fitted within the 
rules of this code and they point to the fact that Mr D had received a credit from X. So, they 
say he had received a service to some degree, even though not all his funds had been 
returned. Im satisfied that Mr D received a credit on or around 8 December 2018. So I think 
Santanders approach here was reasonable.
Ive considered the fact that Mr D says X is a scam company and could never have provided 
the services it offered on its website. There isnt a chargeback code which specifically covers 
this scenario, so Santander say they tried to process the claim under the codes they thought 
were most appropriate. They say they also considered whether the transactions could be 
considered as fraud, but that wasnt possible because Mr D had authorised them. I think that 
was a reasonable approach for them to take.
  
Im not looking here at the actions of X. Im only looking at the way in which Santander dealt 
with Mr Ds chargeback request. And Im satisfied that they gave the request due 
consideration under more than one reason code. The facts of Mr Ds case didnt fit within the 
reason code that the services hadnt been received. And the information which is required 
for misrepresentation claims wasnt available. Santander didnt identify any other reason 
codes which suited the situation any better or would have had a greater chance of success. 
So, I think their conclusion that the claim was unlikely to succeed was reasonable. And I 
think their decision not to pursue the chargeback further was fair. 
I realise my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr D. But, for the reasons above, I dont 
think Santander have done anything wrong here. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman