DRN-2762938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004, as part of an insurance 
package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (or TMPP for short). Mr and Mrs S paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but Ill explain my reasons.
This sale was many years ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. So its 
understandable that neither side still have all the original documents from the sale. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of such data rather than hold 
onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the information I do have.
From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it would have presented the 
policy as optional, and in order to get the PPI Mr and Mrs S would need to have actively 
chosen it. And Halifax wouldve set out the policys cost separately to the cost of the 
mortgage itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the lending. Further, in this case it looks like 
Mr and Mrs S had already been offered their mortgage before taking out PPI, which 
indicates that they wouldve known they didnt have to buy a policy in order to get their 
mortgage offer. Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time, 
nor anything which makes me think Mr and Mrs S were misled into buying it here. So I think 
its most likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware they had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend the policy  so to be as fair to 
Mr and Mrs S as possible, Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. I understand Mr and Mrs S may have had some 
significant work benefits and savings  theyve helpfully provided some evidence of this, 
which Im grateful for. Though understandably, its not been possible for them to precisely 
show how much these were because of all the time thats passed. This policy wouldve paid 
out on top of Mr and Mrs Ss existing benefits and savings, and given the substantial amount 
and length of the PPIs benefit it would most likely have been useful for them in providing 
longer-term protection and shoring up the gaps in their existing cover. It also meant that 
Mr and Mrs S could effectively protect their savings and investments and use them for other 
things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another.
I understand Mr and Mrs S had other protection such as life and critical illness insurance, but 
those were for different things to the PPI so Im afraid they werent relevant here. I also 
understand that Mr and Mrs S felt stable in their work situations, and that they made great 
efforts to keep their expenditure low. But accidents, illnesses, unexpected costs, and 
redundancies can and do happen, even in situations that feel secure  so it seems 
reasonable that they covered themselves. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, 
long-term commitment  so there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs S would be in the same 
situation or have the same benefits or savings available in the many years to come. And 
ultimately, if they fell behind on the mortgage they couldve lost their home. Overall, it looks 
like the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some 
peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman