DRN-3312698
The complaint
Miss B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited made two credit searches against her 
name, even though she had not applied for any credit. She says this makes it harder for her 
to obtain credit.
What happened
On two consecutive days in October 2021 credit searches were carried out against Miss Bs 
name. She says that in both cases the searches were made by MotoNovo, even though she 
had not made any credit application. 
When Miss B queried the position with MotoNovo, it directed her to the dealers involved. 
Both said that they had not received any application for finance and that the cars involved 
had been sold to other buyers. MotoNovo was not prepared to remove the searches, and 
Miss B referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had 
happened but thought that credit applications had been made and that MotoNovo had 
therefore been within its rights to make the searches. He did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Miss B did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first of all discuss this services powers to look at Miss Bs complaint. We cannot look at 
every complaint referred to us. For example, a complaint must be brought by or on behalf of 
someone who is eligible to do so and must concern an activity that we have power to 
consider. 
The categories of person who can refer a complaint to us include a customer or potential 
customer of a financial business. The activities we can consider include entering into a 
regulated credit agreement and activities ancillary to that. A hire purchase agreement, 
conditional sale agreement or consumer hire agreement with an individual such as Miss B 
will very often be a regulated credit agreement. 
Miss B says that she made no application for credit to MotoNovo. If that is the case, 
however, she was not a customer of MotoNovo. And she was only a potential customer in 
the sense that she might be one at some point  but that relationship did not give rise to her 
complaint. 
In addition, the activity of making a credit search is not, of itself, an activity about which this 
service can consider a complaint. We can do so if it is an activity ancillary to an activity we 
can consider  such as providing credit or processing an application for credit. Miss B says 
however that she made no application. If that is the case, the activity about which she is 
complaining  making a credit search  is not one we can consider. 
I think however in this case that Miss B did make an application for credit. She says that she 
was looking for a car online. The credit searches appear to have been as a result of 
searches made on a website which allows users to identify cars which are for sale and to 
research and match them to funding options. The credit searches were made using Miss Bs 
correct personal details and concerned cars in which she had expressed an interest. 
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely that not that Miss B did make credit applications. 
Given the nature of the website she was using, I accept that she may not have appreciated 
that her searches would be treated as credit applications. Her experience would not have 
been the same as, for example, making a face-to-face application at a car dealership. I think 
however that MotoNovo was entitled to treat Miss B as someone applying for credit and to 
make the searches. 
In summary, therefore, either:
Miss B did not make the credit applications, meaning this service cannot consider her 
complaint; or
she did make the applications, and MotoNovo was within its rights to make the 
searches, without consulting Miss B directly before doing so.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman