DRN-3493029
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy about the way Bamboo Limited has treated her while shes been
experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
In July 2018, Miss G took out a £4,000 loan with Bamboo. The loan was repayable at
£226.90 over 36 months. But Miss G became unwell and had to take time off work. in
January 2020 she told Bamboo she would struggle to make her repayments. She asked
Bamboo to help by deferring her payments. In February 2020 she told Bamboo she was only
receiving statutory sick pay and couldnt make her contractual repayments.
Bamboo in response said theyd passed her account to their specialist team. Theyd
arranged for any further payments from her card to be cancelled. And removed her contact
details form her account to prevent any arrears calls. But told her shed still receive letters,
and her account would be terminated if she failed to pay after 180 days.
In March 2020 Miss G returned to work but her employment was impacted by the pandemic
and she was placed on furlough, meaning she only received 80% of her salary. Miss G said
she updated Bamboo in July 2020 explaining her situation. Bamboo asked for a payment
before the end of the month which Miss G said she couldnt commit to. Bamboo said her
account would be terminated and defaulted. Miss G complained to Bamboo as she didnt
think theyd treated her fairly as theyd simply stopped communicating with her and hadnt
offered any solutions to her situation. Miss G said she wanted the adverse information
removed from her credit file and a repayment arrangement for the monies she owed put into
place.
Bamboo said theyd tried to help Miss G but she hadnt responded to their calls. And the
letters theyd sent had updated her about the status of her account. Miss G had said she
could make a payment at the end of July 2020 but they told her the payment needed to be
made no later than 30 July 2020, but Miss G didnt respond to this request. Bamboo said
Miss G hadnt engaged with them.
Miss G wasnt happy with Bamboos response as she said they knew she was vulnerable
and it wasnt fair for them to expect her to handle the situation. She referred her complaint to
us.
Our investigator said Bamboo had tried to help with forbearance and sensitivity. He said
Bamboo hadnt taken any payments for five months and had signposted Miss G to debt
counselling services.
Miss G didnt agree she said Bamboo hadnt provided assistance unlike her other lenders
who had supported her through her financial difficulties. She asked for an ombudsman to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I can understand this has been a very difficult time for Miss G and I thank her for her
openness about her mental wellbeing. I can also understand the additional stress caused at
the thought of a poor credit history affecting her career. Bamboo also feel strongly that they
took steps to help Miss G as much as they could with the information they were given.
The rules and guidance relevant to this type of credit agreement are set out in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit handbook, CONC. For ease of reference, Ive
highlighted some of these below.
CONC 7.3.4R says a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with
forbearance and due consideration.
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to say Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would
include:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or
charges
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock
CONC 7.3.6G says  where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm
should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
CONC 7.3.14R says a firm must not take disproportionate action against a customer in
arrears or default.
CONC 3.3.1R says  communications from firms must be clear, fair and not misleading
Ive considered whether Bamboo on being made aware of Miss Gs financial difficulties acted
with forbearance and due consideration in their dealings with her.
In January 2020 Miss G told Bamboo that she was unable to work because of ill health, and I
can see from Bamboos records that a deferment for Januarys payment was done. I can
also see they emailed Miss G and confirmed that her account had been referred to their 
specialist team, an acknowledgement that shed said she was happy to discuss her account
with them over the phone. And they signposted Miss G to debt counselling services. I can
also see that Bamboo tried on a number of occasions from this point to speak to Miss G over
the phone about her account, but she didnt respond.
People suffering from mental health issues often find it difficult to discuss their finances over
the phone. So, I would expect a business with a specialist team to be able to discuss other
options for communicating with a vulnerable consumer in these circumstances. And I can
see, at first, that Miss G and Bamboo had been able to communicate by email.
In February 2020 Miss G provided by email medical evidence to show she was still unable to
work and that her only income was statutory sick pay which meant she wouldnt be able to
pay her contractual monthly repayment of £226.90. Wed expect a lender to listen to a
borrower, get an understanding of their individual circumstances and discuss what help is
appropriate. In response to Miss Gs email I can see that Bamboo removed her contact
number and email address to minimise arrears communication. They also cancelled anyfurther payments being taken from Miss Gs payment card. And they told Miss G she would
still receive letters about the status of her account.
After February 2020 I havent seen any evidence that the specialist team tried to discuss
Miss Gs financial situation with her by phone or email. I havent seen any evidence that
Bamboo asked Miss G to provide them with an income and expenditure breakdown or to
determine whether Miss G could make any form of token payment to the account. I think
Bamboo could have offered more support here by trying to gain a better understanding of
Miss Gs situation and what she could sustainably afford to pay towards her agreement.
I understand Bamboo removed Ms Gs contact details to prevent her getting the general
arrears calls, but I would have expected the specialist team to continue to try to
communicate with Miss G using these channels to look to ways that they could help and to
determine Miss Gs financial situation. It was an uncertain time for many people, including
Miss G. The only communication Ive seen was in March 2020 when an arrears letter was
sent, in April 2020 when a default notice was sent and in May 2020 when Miss G was
notified that her account was terminated.
I can see there were significant periods of time when Miss G wasnt engaging with Bamboo.
And Miss G had the opportunity to respond to the letters shed been sent but as I mentioned
above it can be difficult for someone suffering with mental health to discuss their financial
situation. And while Miss G was able to return to work in April 2020, she was almost
immediately furloughed because of the pandemic which Im persuaded had a detrimental
impact on her health.
Its important to note that the FCA had formally released guidance in respect of financial
difficulties arising as a result of Covid-19. This came into effect on 27 April 2020. The
guidance was for Exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment
difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.
The guidance set out that eligible customers should be able to request a payment deferral
for a period of three months. But the guidance also said, Where a customer was in pre-
existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC would
continue to apply.
Miss G said that other lenders were treating customers better at the time the
pandemic started by offering payment holidays in line with guidance from the regulator.
However, the guidance did state that this was for customers who were not in arrears at the
time the pandemic started. And Bamboo had stopped taking any payments from her.
I acknowledge that Miss G thinks that the default should be removed from her credit file. The
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three months
behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to
be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. Miss G
hadnt been able to make any payments towards her loan for over six months. I think at this
point it was clear that Miss G couldnt meet her contractual payments. So, I think the default
is an accurate, and necessary reflection of what happened with this account. So, I dont think
I can fairly or reasonably ask Bamboo to remove the default from Miss Gs credit file. I think
Bamboo needed to register this with the credit reference agencies in order to meet their
obligations as set by the ICO.
I realise Miss G maynt agree, but Im satisfied that Bamboo acted reasonably by registering
a default for her loan. I also think they tried to offer support to Miss G by deferring payment,
suspending payments for several months and by signposting Miss G to debt counselling
services. But I do think Bamboo could have done more to communicate further with Miss Gduring this difficult time to establish her financial situation and to discuss any other options
and the impact non-payment could have. And I think this lack of communication has added
to Miss Gs distress.
Miss G has said she is looking to make a payment arrangement for the loan. And I would
expect Bamboo and Miss G to work together to try to reach a mutual and sustainable
agreement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party has asked for any further comments or representations to be considered.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I partially uphold this complaint, and direct Bamboo Limited 
to pay Miss G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by a lack of communication
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman