DRN-2950271
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the process involved to change his telephone banking pin number on 
his savings account with Goldman Sachs International Bank (Marcus).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I know Mr B will be disappointed, so Ive explained why below.
We arent the financial services regulator. This means we cant tell businesses like 
Marcus, how to run their business or interfere with their policy decisions. This is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Im aware Mr B has already contacted them.
While I admire the thought and sentiment behind Mr Bs complaint, my role here is to 
focus on his individual circumstances and decide if Marcus have followed their 
procedures. And if in doing so, they have treated him fairly.
Marcus are entitled to exercise their commercial judgement to decide what systems 
to have in place. This includes the process to re-set the telephone banking pin 
number. And as explained, I cant direct them to change it.
I appreciate Mr B was uncomfortable, but it doesnt mean Marcus have done 
something wrong. They were simply following their process which required him to 
provide six digits as the new telephone banking pin number so that it could be 
registered on their system.
Mr B was concerned that the agent might note his full telephone banking pin number 
and access his account at a later date. But I cant consider what might potentially 
happen. Looking at what actually happened, Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss. He 
decided not to change his telephone banking pin number and to close his account 
instead. 
Marcus said they tried to reassure Mr B by explaining their process and offered 
alternative methods to authenticate him. Theyve also passed his feedback to the 
relevant team. These are reasonable steps Id expect them to take in this situation.
I appreciate the strength of Mr Bs feeling on this matter. However, I cant agree 
Marcus have treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman