DRN-4050698
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled their home 
insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs Ps property suffered an oil leak from a storage tank. This 
caused extensive damage. A claim against their Lloyds home insurance policy was 
accepted. In late summer 2022 Mr and Mrs P complained about various aspects of how it 
was being handled  including progress and communications. 
Lloyds responded in October 2022. It addressed various issue raised by Mr and Mrs P. It 
apologised for providing a poor service. In recognition of the inconvenience it offered them 
£1,150 compensation. They werent satisfied with that, so came to this service. They feel 
that isnt enough to compensate for the impact of Lloyds poor service. Finally they feel they 
should be compensated for time taken off work to deal with Lloyds and its contractors. 
In March 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. She looked at what had happened 
up until Lloyds final response of October 2022. She explained claims of this nature tend to 
be involved, take time to resolve and are inconvenient for the policyholders. She agreed 
poor service had exacerbated this. But she felt the compensation Lloyds had already offered 
was a fair amount. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept that outcome. They feel the compensation 
isnt enough. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the investigator Ive considered events up until the October 2023 final response 
letter. If Mr and Mrs P would like anything after that reviewed, they will need to refer a further 
complaint to this service. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs P and Lloyds provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided  including Mr and Mrs Ps response to our investigators assessment. 
Unfortunately, by their nature, claims of this type often involve inconvenience for the 
policyholders. I cant fairly require Lloyds to pay compensation for any thats directly caused 
by the original loss  the oil leak. However, I can do so where the insurers poor handling of 
the claim or mistakes have caused unnecessary additional distress or inconvenience.
Lloyds accepted, in its final response letter, that it made various mistakes. Ive also 
considered Mr and Mrs Ps explanation of what went wrong  including delay, lack of 
communication and unnecessary involvement in the detail of the claim. They have explained 
the impact on them  including extended loss of use of an area of their property, the hassle 
of dealing with the matter over an unnecessarily long time and extra time taken off work.  
I accept Mr and Mrs Ps account of events and the impact. Ive considered their personal 
circumstances  including their health. I can see they have been caused unnecessary 
frustration and inconvenience over several months. However, Im not going to require Lloyds 
to pay any additional compensation. I realise this will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs P, but I 
agree with our investigator that its a fair amount to recognise the impact of Lloyds poor 
handling of the claim between November 2021 and October 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay 
and additional compensation or to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman