DRN-4312134
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed their joint 
account without authority and didnt send them the money. They would like Halifax to 
reimburse them for the money they say is missing, with interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat every point 
here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In short, in 2021, Mr H1 and Mr H2 queried what had happened to some money held in an 
old account. Halifax explained that the money had been sent to another account held jointly 
between Mr H1 and Mr H2, and that joint account had subsequently been closed. That had 
happened in June 2010.
Neither Mr H1 nor Mr H2 recollect asking for the joint account to be closed. They also dont 
have any record of receiving the closing balance, which was, according to Halifax, sent in 
the form of a cheque. 
After several discussions with Halifax, Mr H1 and Mr H2 raised a complaint about the 
missing money. In response, Halifax explained that its records were limited given the matter 
occurred such a long time ago. It could confirm that a cheque had been drawn for the closing 
balance, but Halifax couldnt determine when or where the cheque had been presented for 
payment. Overall, Halifax didnt agree to reimburse the money. The bank did, though, offer 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 £200 compensation for some inconvenience it had caused during its 
investigation into what happened. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 werent happy with the response from Halifax, so they contacted our 
service for an independent review. 
Ultimately, one of our investigators didnt think Halifax should reimburse Mr H1 and Mr H2. 
He said, in summary, that in circumstances such as this, he had to consider what he thought 
to be most likely. Having done so, he thought the account had likely been closed on 
instruction of either Mr H1 or Mr H2. 
The investigator also said that it was clear a cheque had been drawn, but there was simply 
no way to say for certain what had happened next. In any event, it appeared that Halifax had 
done what would have been expected of it  that is, drawing a cheque for the closing 
balance of the account  and what happened after that was outside of its control. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 disagreed. So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alongside the brief background that Ive set out above, Im aware that Mr H1 and Mr H2 
have concerns about the service they have received from our Service in relation to this 
matter.
 
The merits of this complaint against Halifax, and the level of service Mr H1 and Mr H2 have 
received from us, are two distinct, separate, matters  with the level of service we have 
provided not being within my remit to consider here. 
So, whilst I am mindful of Mr H1 and Mr H2s concerns (and understand they have been 
addressed separately), I wont be commenting on those issues in this decision. Instead, the 
task before me now is to review all of the evidence provided by both parties surrounding the 
account closure and the cheque, consider the circumstances, then determine how I think the 
complaint should be resolved.
 
I should say, from the outset, that the evidence available here to determine exactly what 
happened is extremely limited. Thats no surprise given the account was closed around 
thirteen years ago. Nonetheless, for the sake of clarity, Ill briefly set out what I do have. 
On the one hand, Halifax has been able to provide some internal screenshots and system 
notes. Broadly, these detail the account closure and that a cheque was sent for the closing 
balance. On the other hand, Mr H1 and Mr H2 have provided significant testimony  
throughout which, in summary, they maintain that they did not ask for the account to be 
closed and they did not receive a cheque.
 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or limited  as it certainly is here  I must reach 
my decision about the merits of the complaint on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Thats not an ideal scenario, far from it. Being in such a position often means that one party 
will inevitably be disappointed by the outcome. But my role is to provide an answer which I 
determine to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, and I want to be 
clear that Ive considered things objectively and impartially; nothing I say here is questioning 
individual integrity or intended as a discourtesy. 
From what Ive seen, the account in question was closed and a cheque was sent for the 
closing balance on 3 June 2010. The account was in joint names, and only one of the 
account holders was required to sign for actions like a withdrawal.
 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 both say they didnt request the account be closed. They dont know who 
did, but theyre adamant it wasnt them. Ive thought very carefully about that.
While its certainly possible, broadly speaking, for illicit parties to access accounts, various 
security measures are in place to prevent that happening. Although not absolutely 
guaranteed to be failsafe, with such measures in place, Id say its rare  and relatively 
unlikely  that an instruction to close an account would be followed by the bank if it was 
given by someone whos not authorised to do so.With that in mind, while I know Mr H1 and Mr H2 are absolutely sure that they didnt ask for 
the account to be closed, on balance (and, to be clear, I dont disbelieve that this is their 
honest recollections), I dont think its likely that Halifax wouldve taken that action unless it 
received instruction from an appropriate party  like an account holder. So, Id find that to be 
the most plausible, that is most likely, event in the absence of clear evidence to the contrary. 
A cheque was drawn for the closing balance. Again, thats relatively clear from what Halifax 
has said; but I dont have a copy of it  and nor do I have anything else to show who the 
cheque was made out to, when it was presented for payment or where. 
Ill say at this point that Ive no reason to doubt Halifax has shared all of the information it 
holds about that cheque. Thats all I can require. There isnt anything more I can compel 
Halifax to do, in relation to the cheque, to help Mr H1 and Mr H2 find the answers theyre 
looking for. 
Ideally, Id have a copy of the cheque  and all the necessary details to determine what 
happened to it. But that information simply isnt available. And while the details around what 
happened to the cheque may be limited, Im not persuaded that means Halifax should 
reimburse Mr H1 and Mr H2 for its value. 
While I know Mr H1 and Mr H2 see things differently; in my view, it isnt reasonable to say 
that because theres no record of what happened to the money after the account was closed, 
and the cheque sent, that Halifax did something wrong. It isnt inherently unreasonable that, 
some thirteen years on, there are no records to refer back to. 
Instead, on the balance of probabilities, I think Halifax most likely closed the account and 
sent a cheque addressed to the account holders on their instruction. I dont see, based on 
the information I have, a plausible reason for it to have done something different. And after it 
had done so, it wouldnt really have anything further to do with the matter. It would simply 
consider the account closed and the balance sent. 
So, overall, with all of that in mind, while I know this will greatly disappoint Mr H1 and Mr H2, 
I dont think Halifax should reimburse them for the sum they say is missing. Theres simply 
insufficient evidence which shows definitively or, for that matter, demonstrates that its more 
likely than not, that Halifax made a mistake. 
Aside from what Ive set out above, Ive noted that Halifax offered £200 compensation to 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 for some inconvenience it caused during its investigation. It seems things 
werent explained particularly clearly, and some delays occurred, which would no doubt be 
frustrating in a situation such as this. So, in the circumstances, I think compensation is an 
appropriate remedy for that failing. And to that end Im satisfied that £200 is a reasonable 
amount. 
As I understand it, that compensation hasnt yet been paid. So, Halifax should arrange to 
pay Mr H1 and Mr H2 £200 for the inconvenience it caused. 
In closing, I know this isnt the answer Mr H1 and Mr H2 are hoping for and theyll 
understandably be disappointed. Ive no doubt theyve given us their testimony just as they 
recall it, and I can certainly understand why theyre so unhappy at whats happened.
 
But the fact is that I dont think it would be reasonable of me to require Halifax to reimburse 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 for the lost amount when, in all the circumstances, Im not satisfied the bank did something wrong. So, this decision brings to an end what our Service can do for 
them.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has made an offer which I find is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. So, I now require it to pay Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 £200 as its offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman