DRN-3325758
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge him for his packaged 
bank account, when hed previously been told that he would not be charged if he kept his 
account balance above a certain amount. 
What happened
Mr M holds a fee-paying Premier account, a feature of the account meant that providing Mr 
M kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, he would not be charged the 
monthly Premier account fee. This feature of the account is known as a fee waiver.
I understand that Lloyds wrote to Mr M to say that it would be removing the fee-waiver from 
the Premier account fee in September 2021. Mr M raised a complaint regarding this.
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, Lloyds explained that it had removed the fee-waiver 
from all account holders and this was a decision that it was entitled to make, based on the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered what Mr M 
and Lloyds had said and provided and she felt that Lloyds need not do anything to put 
matters right.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is 
entitled to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides 
and also which ones to discontinue. 
Additionally, whilst Lloyds has not been able to provide the terms and conditions from the 
time of the sale, the nearest ones available do give Lloyds the option to change both the 
charging structure of the account and the benefits that the account came with - provided 
sufficient notice was given. I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that the terms and 
conditions from the time of the sale would also have this provision, as this a standard term in 
most packaged bank accounts. And Ive also not seen anything to suggest that this was a 
newly introduced term in the version that I have seen.
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr M is dissatisfied by this, especially as he has been a 
customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say that Lloyds decision to remove this 
feature of the Premier account is unreasonable.
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr M and Lloyds have provided, Lloyds did give Mr M reasonable 
notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver. So I think Mr M was given a reasonable amount of 
time to decide whether he wanted to continue with the account and pay the monthly fee, or 
to downgrade his account to a fee-free account instead. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont require Lloyds to do anything in relation to 
this complaint.
I should highlight that this decision represents the last stage in our process and there is no 
further recourse for appeal, that said Mr M is free to pursue his complaint elsewhere such as 
in court if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman