DRN-1719716
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out the PPI policy in 2003 when they applied for a mortgage in one of the 
societys branches. The policy gave them unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount 
for it, after the first six months which were free of charge. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
YBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that the PPI was optional  and they had to agree 
to take it out. Mr and Mrs L say they werent aware it was optional and could be refused.
Mr and Mrs L completed and signed a separate application form for the PPI. They selected 
just unemployment cover, not the more standard package of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. This suggests to me the cover was discussed with them, and they selected 
the option they wanted.  And there was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably 
have led them to believe the cover was mandatory. Their mortgage offer letter read Mr and 
Mrs L have chosen to take out Mortgage Payment Insurance  which again suggests it was 
presented as optional to them. It also set out the ongoing cost separately.
So, on balance, I think its most likely YBS made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and 
Mrs L opted to take it out.
YBS says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs L so it didnt have to check the policy 
was right for them. Mr and Mrs L say it was recommended to them. However, I dont need to 
make a finding on this point as even if YBS had recommended the policy I think it was right 
for them. I say this because it offered them up to 12 months redundancy cover, and theyve 
told us they had no other savings at the time. It would have allowed them to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment giving them increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
So I think it wouldve have been useful for Mr and Mrs L if they lost their job(s). And as they 
were paying for it monthly, they could cancel it with no further cost if their situation changed, 
or they no longer wanted it.YBS also had to give Mr and Mrs L enough information so they could decide for themselves 
whether they wanted to buy it. Its possible the information the society gave Mr and Mrs L 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been 
put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this because:
They were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
They werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those on certain types of employment contract. As they couldve benefited 
from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
The cost was made clear in a quotation and on the mortgage offer, and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
In summary, it seems Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the policy and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so YBS Building Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But YBS Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman