DRN-3044964
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) have declined his claim for treatment 
provided to his dog G.          
 
What happened
 In March 2020 Mr F purchased a lifetime pet insurance policy from HDI for his dog G.  
In June 2020, G had treatment and surgery for Intervertebral Disc Extrusion (IVDE) which 
cost £5574.41. Mr F made a claim for the treatment. 
When assessing the claim, HDI requested a full medical history for G from the vets. They 
noted that the records showed that in June 2019, G had been seen for kennel cough, and it 
was noted during the examination that he had reduced hind limb prop. 
HDI made enquiries with the treating vets regrading the use of the word prop or 
proprioception in the notes. The vet spoken to was not the original treating vet, but she 
confirmed that this was all related to spinal issues, and so HDI declined the claim on the 
basis that the IVDE was a pre-existing condition, the first clinical signs having been recorded 
in June 2019 as reduced hind limb prop.  
Mr F disputed the declinature in August, and after further correspondence, HDI issued a final 
response in December 2020. 
 
In their final response, HDI advised that the underwriters had re-examined all the medical 
evidence and had advised to decline the claim. 
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome and made a complaint to us. He said that he was 
unhappy about the claim being declined, as the previous hind legs issue was related to the 
kennel cough, and not to any of the new spinal issues.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Fs complaint. She thought that HDI had acted 
fairly in declining the claim.    
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
I have seen all of the correspondence between HDI, Mr F and the vets and I have also seen 
all of Gs medical notes and HDIs internal notes.  
Declining the claim
HDI consider that there were early clinical signs of IVDE before the policy was taken out, 
making it a pre-existing condition. 
The policy terms on pre-existing conditions say that:
Pre-existing condition: An injury or illness that:
a. Happened or first showed clinical signs
b. Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet 
had,
c. Is caused by, relates to, or results from and injury, illness or clinical signs your pet 
had,
Before the start date of your pets first period of insurance (inception) or before the 
date the cover level on your policy was increased. 
So, I have considered whether HDI have acted fairly and reasonably in making the decision 
that there were clinical signs of IVDE prior to the policy. I have thought about the definition of 
pre-existing condition, and what evidence HDI have relied on in coming to this decision. 
Gs medical records show the following history:
On 15 May 2019 G was castrated. His post-operative recovery was good but on 24 May 
2019 he attended the vets due to vomiting white froth and on examination possible kennel 
cough was diagnosed. 
On 3 June 2019 G was seen again, and the note says: 
O reports still dull, is eating less, concerned re weight loss, no actual v but gagging like 
might, was coughing but no tracheal pinch today, does look a little poorly on exam colour  
abdo comfy, hr 120 no obv murmur, wound from castration great, temp normal, reduced hind 
limb prop. 
Adv re poss causes, kc with secondary complications, other viral inf, GME type condition etc, 
adv bloods next
Plan: 
Laboratory bloods all normal, adv re c reactive protein in case of ass inflam 
condition/discussed referral in case of neuro inflammation but declined ATM, also discussed 
re long term kc signs making him unwell in view of brachceph, adv rest and send off c 
reactive protein and call with results. 
On 4 June the results of the C reactive protein test were returned. The results were high at 
73.4mg/l with anything above 30mg/l indicating clinically significant systemic inflammation. G 
was seen the same day and on examination it is noted that there is no neck pain, no neuro 
deficits, lung sound normal. Other dog has KC and is currently on antibiotics, suspects KC. 
Owner will ring tomorrow with update, referral offered, owner not keen.. G was given an 
injection and some tablets. The next day it was reported that G had picked up. 
G was seen for vaccinations at the end of June 2019 and on examination it was noted that 
Everything is normal
G was not then seen by the vet for 12 months, and on 10 June 2020 he was seen for hives. 
No spinal issues were noted. 
On 21 June 2020 G was seen for respiratory difficulties after being unsettled, panting and 
kicking his back legs out. He was noted to be able to walk. He was examined, laboured 
breathing was noted and bloods were taken. Bloods were unremarkable and he was treated 
as suspected pneumonia. 
On 22 June 2020 Mr F took G to the vets as an emergency as he was unable to stand on his 
back legs. He was noted to be just about able to stand on his back legs and to have deep 
pain. Bloods were taken but were unremarkable and he was referred to the animal hospital. 
The animal hospital saw G the same day and diagnosed with IVDE which is otherwise 
known as a slipped disc. He was noted to be paraplegic with intact nociception. Withdrawal 
and patellar reflexes were weak on both pelvic limbs. Cutaneous trunci was cut off from L3-
L4 level on the right side, and it was unaltered on the left side. Lower lumbar region 
hyperaesthesia was present. G was in pain and following an MRI which showed moderate 
to severe spinal cord compression, he underwent a hemilaminectomy to remove the 
ruptured disc and decompress the spinal cord. The operation was successful. 
HDI have said that they consider that the reference to reduced hind limb prop in June 2019 
combined with a high inflammatory marker in Gs bloods indicate that there were clinical 
signs of the pre-existing condition of IVDE. They evidence they relied on is that 
proprioception (or prop), which is a term used when a dog is not placing his paws down 
properly and the high inflammatory marker can both be indicative of spinal issues. They also 
spoke to Gs vets practice but not to the vet who made the note in 2019, as she no longer 
works there. The vet spoken to said that in her opinion the note regarding proprioception 
was directly related to IVDE. 
Mr F has also provided a letter from another vet at the same practice which says that the 
previous reduced hind leg proprioception was not related to IVDE as it resolved following 
treatment for kennel cough and any spinal involvement was discounted. 
I have thought about the reasoning provided by HDI in the context of Gs recorded medical 
history for the period for May 2019 to June 2020 and I am not satisfied that the noting of 
reduced hind leg prop on one occasion is sufficient evidence of clinical signs of a pre-
existing condition of IVDE. There were no further attendances in the intervening 12-month 
period for any leg or back issues, and on the occasions when G was seen at the end of June 
2019 and early June 2020 he was examined and no issues were noted. In fact, on 4 June 
2019 when G was seen, the notes record no neuro deficits, on 19 June 2019 it was noted 
that Everything is normal, which indicates any issues had resolved. G was seen again 
shortly before his admission for IVDE in early June 2020 there was no mention of any spinal 
issues. 
Given the severity of Gs condition when he was seen on 22 June 2020, I would have 
expected there to have been some indication of problems in the intervening period if there 
was an ongoing underlying condition. I note that even when G was seen the day before for 
breathing issues, there was no indication of hind limb issues. I therefore dont think it is fair 
to link the isolated mention of proprioception in June 2019 to the acute onset of paraplegic 
symptoms and the diagnosis of IVDE in June 2020.  I also consider that whilst the C reactive 
protein test showed high levels of inflammation in June 2019, this does not necessarily indicate spinal inflammation as it could be related to any form of inflammation in the body, 
and I think it would be unfair to specifically link it without additional investigations.
   
I have looked at the opposing opinions given by vets practice to HDI and Mr F. I consider 
that as neither opinion is from the treating vet, and both are given working from the notes, 
they could both be equally right or wrong. I do not dispute that proprioception can be an 
indicator of spinal issues. However, I think that in this case, given the lack of detail in the 
notes on 19 June 2019, the fact that there seemed to be complete recovery, and there was 
no further mention in the intervening period, it wouldnt be fair to use the proprioception in 
2019 as evidence of the early clinical signs of IVDE, and therefore as a pre-existing 
condition.    
I therefore find that HDI should treat Gs IVDE as a new condition from 21 June 2020. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint, and I invited the 
parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr F and HDI a copy of my provisional decision. I have not had a response from either 
party, so Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
My final decision
 I am upholding Mr Fs complaint and directing that HDI Global Specialty SE should pay Mr 
Fs claim for Gs treatment for the period 21  26 June 2020 subject to any further policy 
limits and less any applicable excess.  
It should also pay 8% simple interest on any payments made by Mr F in respect of the bill 
which is the subject of the claim, from the date that payment was made until the date that the 
claim is settled.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman