DRN-4332593
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Vitality Corporate Services Limiteds decision to exit the retail 
investment market. As a result, hes now having to move his pension and investments 
elsewhere. 
Mr B would like Vitality to cover the original cost of the financial advice he incurred when 
setting the products up and in addition, the new advice costs he says hell now face in 
moving his monies to a new provider.
What happened
Mr B holds a number of investments and a pension with Vitality. In April 2023, Vitality wrote 
to Mr B explaining that they would be exiting the UK retail investment market. That meant 
that their customers would have to move their investments elsewhere as Vitality had decided 
it was unable to continue offering a service to either existing or new consumers.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B decided to formally complain to Vitality. In summary, he said that he 
was unhappy about their decision to close their business because of the financial detriment 
that it would cause him. Mr B also said, in summary:
Vitality had marketed their investments as being available for the long term and that 
clearly appeared not to be the case.
He would lose unique product features such as the investment booster Vitality offered 
by having to move elsewhere.
He didnt believe Vitality had adhered to the regulators principles for business (PRIN) 
rules.
Finally, Mr B explained that he objected to having his personal data shared without his 
consent without some form of recompense.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, Vitality concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that given they were applying boosters and 
discounts to consumers plans as though theyd been held to the fifth year, Mr B wouldnt be 
any worse off as a consequence of their decision to close their business. In addition, they 
went on to say that they wouldnt be able to cover the costs of paying for a financial adviser 
to find a suitable alternative for him as they were offering an option to switch to a new 
provider, abrdn, on terms and conditions that were no less favourable than the charges he 
was currently paying.
Mr B was unhappy with Vitalitys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that Vitality had targeted its products at existing members like him, and 
having used a financial adviser originally, that now meant that hed have to seek financial 
advice again with a total cost of £8,389.
As part of his complaint to this service, Mr B commented that he didnt believe Vitalitys 
resolution letter covered all of his concerns. In response to that concern, Vitality issued 
another resolution letter providing further commentary about his complaint points. They also 
went on to offer Mr B £500 in recognition of the inconvenience that the unexpected closure 
of their business and withdrawal of their product features had caused him. 
Mr B was unhappy with Vitalitys offer, so the complaint was then considered by one of our 
Investigators. In summary, she concluded that Vitality had treated Mr B fairly. She went on to 
say that Vitality had made a commercial decision to close this part of their business and it 
wasnt within the remit of this service to compel them to continue those operations. She also 
said that she didnt believe that the closure could have been foreseen. As such, she didnt 
think that it was reasonable that Vitality should refund Mr Bs advice fees.
Mr B, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that it didnt 
seem fair that he was faced with having to pay for financial advice again so soon after 
setting the plans up. Whilst he accepted that Vitalitys terms and conditions set out that they 
were able to close their investment offering, Mr B said that didnt necessarily mean that the 
decision was fair. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Mr B had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy 
with that outcome, Mr B then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr B has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mr Bs 
disappointment that Vitality have decided to close their retail investment business, creating 
an inconvenience and financial impact on him.
Whilst I appreciate that this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im in agreement 
with our Investigator and for largely the same reasons. As such, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint and whilst I dont think I can add a great deal more beyond what our Investigator 
has already set out, Ill explain why below.
I can well appreciate the disappointment Mr B must have felt when he received Vitalitys 
letter, explaining that they were withdrawing from the retail investment market. Mr B set up a 
pension and investments with them on the understanding that these were going to be long 
term commitments, on both sides. However, after less than five years, Vitality concluded that 
they were no longer able to continue providing an offering to him or any other consumer. I 
also sympathise with Mr B and the inconvenience he now faces with having to move his 
monies elsewhere. Hes explained that Vitalitys decision to exit the market has resulted in 
him having to seek new financial advice, having already paid for professional help when he 
originally set his investments up with them. But, its important for me to say, their decision to exit the UK retail investment market is a 
commercial decision for Vitality alone and one in which theyve consulted the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), about. Its therefore not within the remit of this service to 
interfere with business decisions of this nature. Firms have to make commercial decisions 
such as these regularly, but the important aspect of any such decision is ensuring that their 
business is wound down in a well-controlled and orderly manner so as to limit the impact on 
their consumers. From what Ive seen of the correspondence issued to Mr B, it appears that 
Vitality have taken reasonable steps to try and limit the impact of that decision on their 
consumers so Im not persuaded theyve failed to follow the regulators PRIN rules. Vitality 
have said:
We will automatically enhance the transfer value of your Boost benefit to the first five 
year period after taking future product and fund charges into consideration.
We have extended the Healthy Living Discount benefit to 31 December  meaning there 
is an enhancement to your transfer value to this effect.
We have built a process whereby your plans can be transferred to abrdn hassle free, and 
your wrapper products and funds will be charged at an equivalent of our base charge or 
less.
Our customer service team are here and are ready to help you with any queries you may 
have should you wish to transfer your plan to another provider.
Its important to recognise that using financial services wont always be hassle free. But, it 
seems to me that given Vitality are enhancing Mr Bs boost benefit to the first five year 
period, he shouldnt miss out on what he wouldve likely received had Vitality not decided to 
discontinue the scheme until the first milestone had been met. Also, from what Ive read, hell 
receive that benefit regardless of where he eventually ends up transferring his plan to. 
Vitality are not obligated to provide that benefit, so I think that theyre being reasonable in 
doing so. Mr B, though, has said that benefit wont take account of the advice costs hes 
already suffered. As such, he wants Vitality to refund the advice fees he paid when he 
moved to them and the new costs that he says hell now incur  I dont agree.
I think its important to recognise that, regardless of which provider Mr Bs adviser originally 
recommended that he switch his pension to, he wouldve always incurred an advice fee. As 
our Investigator has already explained, we wouldnt investigate a complaint on the notion 
that the scheme shouldnt have launched because it would be discontinued several years 
later. Thats because theres no suggestion, or more specifically, evidence, that Vitality 
intended to wind the scheme down so soon. 
In addition, regardless of which provider Mr Bs adviser recommended he switch his pension 
to, there would always be a risk that that firm may shutter its business. It was Mr Bs adviser 
that recommended Vitality and I dont doubt the features that Vitality were offering at the 
time, particularly for existing members sounded attractive. However, an important 
consideration in any switch, amongst other things, is the financial strength and longevity of 
that business. Whilst consumers monies are always ringfenced, there can be a greater risk 
of a newly created retail investment business having to cease trading in the early years 
because of a lack of business growth compared to a longer established firm thats been in 
the market for some time. Thats not to say that longer established firms dont stop trading, 
but the risks are lower for them compared to start-ups and thats a factor I wouldve expected 
Mr B and his adviser to have been aware of.
I also appreciate Mr Bs additional concern where he says that hell now face new advice 
charges to source a suitable replacement scheme which he estimates to be in the region of around £5,400. However, its Mr Bs choice to incur those costs and thats because Vitality 
have offered all plan holders the option of moving their pensions and investments to abrdn 
on terms that either match or better their existing deal. So, whilst Mr B may not feel confident 
in selecting the pension that he feels is right for him and may want to use an adviser, hes 
not being forced to do so and should he wish, there is a no cost option available.
Vitality started informing advisers about their intention to discontinue offering investments 
and pensions as early as November 2022 and in April 2023, they wrote to consumers. They 
then gave a period of four months from that point to allow plan-holders time to move their 
holdings away. Taking account of the timescales that are involved in sourcing a financial 
adviser wholl then need to undertake the relevant research and paperwork, I think thats a 
more than sufficient time to arrange a switch to another provider. But, as Ive already 
explained, Vitalitys existing consumers didnt necessarily need to engage a financial adviser 
because they were offered an alternative which would save the cost of having to pay for 
advice.
When Mr B originally agreed to move his pension and investments to Vitality, he was 
presented with a set of pre-sale documents that, amongst other things, set out the terms and 
conditions of the policies that he was entering into. Ive looked through those terms and they 
do include a warning that should it become necessary in the future for Vitality to close their 
retail investment business, as long as sufficient notice is provided, theyre able to do so. In 
addition, those terms do not require Vitality to keep their investment business open for a 
minimum duration of time from launch. Whilst Mr B appears to have acknowledged the 
presence of those terms, he believes theyre unfair  I dont agree though. Had Vitality not 
included such a term, they would be in a forced position of having to continue to run a 
business that doesnt make commercial sense. Mr B was free to choose another provider 
from the beginning if he didnt agree with those terms and conditions.
Allied to this, Mr B explained that he objected to having his personal data shared without his 
consent, without some form of recompense. However, Vitalitys terms which Mr B agreed to, 
do forewarn him that should he fail to move his pension and investments to an alternate 
provider by the deadline date, they do retain the right to move his monies to an appropriate 
new business. That will ultimately include passing his details to the new business. 
Vitality have offered Mr B £500 for the inconvenience that the closure of their business has 
caused him. For me to be able to make an award for trouble and upset, I have to be satisfied 
that a business has done something wrong. Ive looked closely at the communications that 
Vitality have issued to Mr B and their general interactions with him. In addition, Ive also 
looked at the information on their website, along with the steps that theyve put in place to 
aide him and his adviser in transitioning away to an alternative provider. From what Ive 
seen, Im of the view that that information clearly sets out why Vitality have had to make the 
difficult decisions they have and theyve done so in clear, concise language. Vitality have 
also put in place measures to limit the impact on consumers by protecting their investment 
boosts and including their plan discounts on transfer values and offered a suitable alternative 
product with a new provider. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr B has been 
treated unreasonably and importantly  any differently to any other Vitality consumer by 
them in this process. So, whilst Vitality may wish to pay Mr B the £500 theyve already 
offered him, I will not be directing them to do so, nor will I be instructing them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and as such, I am not directing Vitality Corporate Services 
Limited to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman