DRN-3481562
The complaint
Mrs O complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax staff dealt with her in 
branch.
What happened
Mrs O says she went to a Halifax branch to transfer money. She says brought with her a 
passport and marriage certificate as advised but Halifax staff accused her of having a fake 
certificate. She also says she was subjected to racist language which took place in front of 
her young daughter. Mrs O says her accounts were closed and in summary was treated 
appallingly. She would like an apology.
Halifax says Mrs O attended its branch on 21 October 2021. It says Mrs O didnt have an 
account card with her and it had concerns over the documents that were produced. It also 
says Mrs O was attempting to transfer about £10,000. Halifax says its staff were badly 
treated by Mrs O which resulted in the Police being called. It says its entitled to close an 
account in these circumstances without notice.
Mrs O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it reasonable for Halifax to check documents in these circumstances and didnt think 
there evidence of discrimination. The investigator also thought Halifax was entitled to close 
an account or accounts without notice in line with account terms and conditions.
Mrs O doesnt accept that view and questions why the Police were called.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs O will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mrs Os account terms and conditions which I think she would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. Im satisfied those terms and conditions set 
out the circumstances in which Halifax can close an account without notice which I think 
were met here. So, I dont think Halifax made a mistake by closing the accounts. I appreciate 
Mrs O doesnt make a specific complaint about that or that is the main part of the complaint 
but make it clear in any event.
The key part of the complaint is about the events of 21 October 2021. Both sides have given 
opposite versions of events. Mrs O says she was racially abused, and Halifax says it had 
reasonable concerns about the withdrawal due to identity issues and its staff didnt act as 
Mrs O alleges. I am sure Mrs O appreciates that it would be unfair to favour one version of 
events over the other without any other evidence. So, I cant be sure that Halifax staff acted 
as Mrs O says they did and cant fairly conclude the staff members racially abused her. Im 
satisfied that Halifax staff felt sufficiently concerned with the events in branch to call the 
police which I think is significant and dont think on balance the staff would have taken such 
action unless there were concerns about Mrs Os behaviour.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude Halifax staff behaved inappropriately towards Mrs O or 
discriminated against her. And am satisfied this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman