DRN-2439275
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer Finance 
(Hitachi) have made an entry on his credit file which is factually incorrect. He says this will 
continue to have a negative impact on his credit record so he wants Hitachi to remove this.
What happened
Mr R applied online for a personal loan with Hitachi in 2018. In the personal information 
section, Mr R entered his surname in the relevant box. There is a box after this which asked 
Former Surname, Mr R entered his surname here also. Mr R wasnt offered the loan. 
In 2020, Mr R obtained a copy of his credit file. This showed that Hitachi had reported to a 
credit reference agency (CRA) in 2018 that Mr R had used an alias name. 
Mr R complained to Hitachi. He said the name which was recorded as an alias name on his 
credit file is in fact his real name. He provided proof of this and asked them to arrange for the 
entry to be removed. Mr R said, he has made a considerable number of applications in the 
past and the forms can be tedious so he might well have made an error in recording his 
surname in the incorrect box. Hitachi responded and said no error had been made by them 
so they wouldnt be removing the entry on his credit file.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She felt Hitachi hadnt acted unfairly in their 
reporting to the CRA. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about customers 
to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office state that any data 
reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date. Ive looked at 
Hitachis website and note the Privacy Policy explains that they share information with 
CRAs. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Hitachi to share information with the CRA. 
The next point Ive considered is whether the information shared was accurate. Mr R has 
provided proof about his surname  and I dont think thats in dispute here. Ive seen the 
online form completed by Mr R and hes entered his surname in the relevant and correct 
box. Ive seen that Mr R has also then entered his surname into a box requesting a former 
surname  and that is what has caused the issue. 
Hitachi say, when they completed their credit checks with the CRAs, it has registered that Mr 
R had noted another surname on his application. They also say that an alias wouldnt affect 
a decision on any future loan applications. Our investigator did ask Hitachi whether, in light 
of the fact there appears to have been an inadvertent error here, they would be prepared to 
remove the entry. But Hitachi say, as no error has been made by them, they wouldnt look to 
remove this information from Mr Rs credit file.  
I do understand Mr Rs frustrations here and I also note his concerns about any impact this 
might have on future applications for credit. But, I cant ask Hitachi to put things right if 
theres no evidence of an error on their part. This does appear to have been an unfortunate 
error by Mr R when entering information on the online form but Hitachi have then provided 
accurate information to the CRAs as there has been an entry made in the former surname 
box. So, I dont think Hitachi have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.   
I can see the CRA wrote to Mr R to say they had been in touch with Hitachi about removing 
the information about the alias. They said Hitachi had responded to say the information is 
recorded accurately. The CRA said, as the data belongs to Hitachi, the CRA cant change it 
unless Hitachi authorise it. The CRA explained to Mr R they could add a dispute statement 
to the information recorded or he could add a Notice of Correction. I can see that Mr R asked 
for his own statement to be added on his credit file describing how the situation arose.  
I agree with the investigators approach here in asking Hitachi to reconsider their position in 
relation to the information recorded to determine whether this could be resolved on an 
informal basis. Hitachi refused on the basis the error wasnt on their part  and I havent 
seen any information which proves otherwise. So, I think Mr R has taken the right steps here 
in placing a Notice of Correction to this information. 
In summary, I dont think Hitachi have acted unreasonably in the report made to the CRAs 
and I dont think theyve acted unfairly in refusing to remove this information from Mr Rs 
credit file.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman