DRN-3749694
The complaint
Mr F and Ms R have complained about the way a fire damage claim was dealt with by the 
insurer St Andrew's Insurance Plc when they made a claim under their home insurance 
policy. 
All reference to the insurer in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Unfortunately Mr F and Ms Rs home was damaged by fire. They contacted their insurer St 
Andrews to make a claim. 
Mr F and Ms R made a series of complaints to St Andrews about the way their claim was 
being handled by it and its agents. 
St Andrews upheld many of their complaints and paid a total of £375 compensation and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In February 2022 Mr F and Ms R asked us to look at their complaints. We investigated the 
complaints St Andrews responded to up until 26 August 2021. 
Our Investigator recommended St Andrews increase the compensation it paid to a total of 
£500. 
Both parties disagreed. St Andrews said it accepts there were failings in its handling of the 
claim. But it believes the £375 compensation, and action it took to resolve the complaints 
was reasonable. 
Ms R said the increase in compensation isnt enough to reflect the impact of St Andrews 
handling of the claim. She said it isnt the only thing St Andrews can do to put things right; 
such as employing suitable contractors, ensuring health and safety regulations are followed 
and ensuring claims are properly handled and progressed. Ms R says the £500 doesnt even 
cover their time in calls, emails and having to check their work - outside of the impact on 
their physical and mental health. 
So as both parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read that before and during the time of dealing with this claim, Ms R was 
undergoing tests, hospital appointments, surgery and further tests. This was also during the 
time when Covid 19 meant restrictions were in place - and clearly due to Ms Rs clinical 
vulnerability during this time, she and Mr F were acutely concerned about the risks to them 
while contractors were visiting their home. 
Ive no doubt that the obvious impact of dealing with a house fire while facing serious health 
issues have made a period of inevitable disruption and inconvenience even worse for Ms R 
and Mr F. 
I think its important for me to say here that its not for me to decide how an insurer operates 
its business. So I cannot ask an insurer to change the way it handles relationships with its 
contractors. The Financial Conduct Authority regulates St Andrews plc. I can look at the role 
of the insurer St Andrews in its handling of the claim and the individual merits of the 
complaint. Ive considered what went wrong, the impact, and what St Andrews did to put 
things right. 
While I havent detailed each complaint in my decision as itemised by Mr F and Ms R, Ive 
looked at all of them up until St Andrews responded on 26 August 2021. 
The salient points are that some contractors from the cleaning company had Covid 19 and 
so were unable to carry out cleaning works. St Andrews arranged for another contractor to 
attend - because building contractors were scheduled to attend after the cleaning works 
were to complete. So St Andrews said they did this to prevent delays. 
Although the cleaning contractor made Mr F and Ms R aware of this when they said they 
couldnt attend, Ms R and Mr F were unhappy that St Andrews made alternative 
arrangements without discussing it with them first. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F and Ms R cancelled the building contractors. When they did so, the 
building contractors said they understood they could still attend - as St Andrews had also 
told them alternative arrangements had been made with another cleaning contractor. 
I understand Mr F and Ms R were upset at the way St Andrews handled this situation. But I 
dont think St Andrews actions were unreasonable. I think the motive was to prevent any 
delays in the claim. And the first cleaning contractor let them know that alternative 
arrangements had been made by St Andrews when calling to cancel. 
Mr F and Ms R are very unhappy that the cleaning contractors didnt use the appropriate 
equipment when they came to clean their home. And so they were very concerned about the 
risks to their health - and to the contractors - in the equipment they were using to clean fire 
damage and the appropriate PPE during times of Covid 19. 
Mr F and Ms R reported other failures in the protection of their furniture and flooring, the 
items that were taken away for cleaning and the failure to properly document what was 
beyond economical repair and to be returned to them They were unhappy with the way their 
items were being stored - and unhappy with the standard of cleaning in their home which 
they said they had to do again after the cleaning contractors left. 
In St Andrews response to the complaints in August 2021, it accepted its failings. It agreed 
to put right the issues raised in order to progress the claim by paying a cash settlement for 
decorating works and looked to put right any damage to flooring or furniture and replacing 
damaged items including a fire extinguisher. 
It made contact with the cleaning contractor and said the contractor advised they take health 
and safety seriously. As a result of the complaint, two technicians had been subjected to 
disciplinary action and a full health and safety audit was to be carried out. 
I understand Mr F and Ms R believe the recommended increase in compensation by the 
Investigator to £500 isnt enough. And St Andrews says the compensation of £375 its 
already paid up to August 2021 is fair. It says the first time it was made aware of Ms Rs 
health concerns was in July 2021. It said if it had been aware sooner, it would have taken 
additional steps at this difficult time. It has referred to subsequent complaints raised by Mr F 
and Ms R which theyve upheld and paid further compensation. But I cannot consider the actions of St Andrews in relation to complaints raised after August 
2021 as Mr F and Ms R havent yet brought these complaints to us to consider - so they 
dont form part of my decision. 
I think its clear that there was a considerable amount of communication between Mr F and 
Ms R and the contractors and St Andrews - where they had valid concerns about the 
handling of their claim and the failings by St Andrews were over and above what we would 
consider reasonable. 
Having said that, I dont think it was so unreasonable as to consider an award of 
compensation above £500 for Mr F and Ms R. The awards which we give are modest. Ive 
taken into account that its expected for policyholders to experience a degree of disruption 
when having to deal with a fire damage claim. And we look at what happened rather than 
what might have happened when making awards. I think the fact that disciplinary action was 
taken against the technicians involved shows their complaint was taken seriously by St 
Andrews and the cleaning contractor.
So taking everything into account, I think a fair outcome to resolve this complaint is for St 
Andrews to increase the compensation it paid up to August 2021 from £375 to £500 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
St Andrews Insurance plc to increase the compensation it paid from £375 to £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in relation to the complaints St Andrews Insurance plc 
responded to on 26 August 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman