DRN-3136090
The complaint
R, a sole trader, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc asked for information on multiple 
occasions, failed to establish a clients account correctly and provided poor service.
What happened
R says that it had to provide the same information to HSBC on several occasions during a 
safeguard exercise. It also found out that an account it thought had been a clients account 
since 2015 was a normal business account. This could cause issues with its professional 
body. And it had difficulty dealing with its payees through internet banking and changing 
reference numbers. All this came to light when it was trying to work on an important case.
HSBC said it accepted that it had provided misinformation to R about the requirements. It 
said that the account had been established as R requested in 2015. R would need to open a 
new account to hold clients funds. HSBC said that the issue with online banking had been 
rectified. It offered to pay R £350 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do more than it had offered to. He said that 
the safeguard exercise was to help protect customers from potential fraud or financial crime. 
But that the process here was particularly frustrating. The owner of R was told that having 
spent a lot of time on the phone that wasnt the way to deal with the review. Multiple letters 
were sent out and the review which started in February 2020 wasnt completed until 
November 2020. 
Our investigator thought that based upon what R had provided HSBC ought to have set up a 
clients account. R had made clear in a letter on 11 February 2015 that it needed a clients 
account and that this is a requirement from its professional body when it deals with funds. 
HSBCs position was that it wasnt able to change the account and R would need to open a 
new account. R had said that this might cause issues with the professional body. But we 
couldnt deal with hypothetical things -  only what had and would need to happen now. 
HSBC had since clarified that although a technical issue with internet banking in 2020 had 
been resolved, it now did group all payees across different accounts intentionally as part of 
its product features.
Our investigator thought that the compensation was reasonable to reflect what happened. 
We dont tend to make awards for units of time and wouldnt use professional rates if we did. 
This compensation reflected the stress to the owner of R and the needless inconvenience 
caused.
R didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said that £350 
was ridiculous and it hadnt seen any compensation. It didnt think that it had been protected 
from potential costs and sanctions by its professional body for not having a clients account. 
And nor had it been compensated for the impact of being threatened with the account being 
closed and the time and stress involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC uses the safeguard process to help it meet regulatory requirements and ensure it 
understands and has the correct information about its customers. I dont doubt that this 
would always have caused an element of necessary inconvenience. Here having considered 
what HSBC has said about the process, my understanding is that in May 2020 it realised 
that R was dealing with client funds. And that it needed to deal with the review differently. 
That led to duplication and R not being able to complete the review by phone as it thought 
had been agreed. It also meant it was receiving reminders when it thought it had dealt with 
things.
HSBC hasnt disagreed with the investigators assessment that a clients account was 
required by R. And based on what I said above it seems that in any event this ought to have 
been established from the outset. R has explained that the account has been audited and 
this issue hasnt been identified earlier. But in any event it has now and unfortunately R 
would need to open a specific clients account. 
I can see that HSBC issued four final responses about the elements of this complaint. And it 
accepts that it didnt deal appropriately at first with the problems R was having and didnt 
clarify the requirements. It accepted that at times R had difficulties getting through to its team 
and this was likely affected by the impact of the pandemic. There was further 
misunderstanding over the functionality of selecting payees when banking online which 
wasnt all down to a technical problem as it has now confirmed. Having said that the payees 
are being shown in line with its process and we dont have a role in setting how it does this.
I agree with our investigator that we wont make any award or requirement relating to things 
that might happen in future relating to Rs professional body. So, these arent a part of this 
complaint. Wed reasonably expect R to take steps to mitigate any such impact including 
opening a compliant account now.
I need to decide if the amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience offered to R 
is reasonable based upon what Ive found has happened. I need to make clear that we dont 
make punitive awards and I have taken into account published guidance about 
compensation. We dont tend to make awards based on units of time and wouldnt normally 
apply professional rates. Here R has been caused needless inconvenience and will need to 
arrange a clients account. The owner of R has been distressed by what happened. Having 
weighed all these factors I consider that the offer from HSBC is a reasonable one. I know 
that R will be disappointed by this. If it doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue 
this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
HSBC has shown that on 13 May 2020 it paid R £100 of the £350 it now offers. I reflect this 
below.My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay R £350 to settle the complaint and I think that this is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay R a further £250 
as it has already paid R £100..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman