DRN-3890291
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T contacted QIC to make a claim for storm damage to their roof. QIC said it 
would send a surveyor. Mr T and Mrs T arranged for a temporary repair to their roof. 
However, the repair failed. So, Mr T and Mrs T arranged for a permanent repair to be carried 
out to prevent further damage. The day the roof was being repaired, QICs surveyor also 
visited. Following this, QIC declined the claim. It said the roofer had told the surveyor the 
damage was due to poor workmanship.
When Mr T and Mrs T complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said 
Mr T and Mrs T has breached the terms of the policy by having a permanent repair carried 
out before the surveyor could inspect the damage.
So, Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She said QIC 
hadnt properly assessed the claim based on the information available to it. She also said 
QIC should deal with the internal damage. She said QIC should re-assess the claim.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, it isnt in dispute that there was a storm around the time of the 
damage. Ive checked the weather conditions and can see there were windspeeds that 
would be regarded as storm conditions. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. 
So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
Ive then thought about the third question and the roof damage. QIC has said Mr T and Mrs 
T said prejudiced the claim by carrying out a permanent repair. From what Ive seen, Mr T 
and Mrs T initially carried out a temporary repair. However, this wasnt successful and the 
roof and the internal damage continued to deteriorate. QIC was unable to send a surveyor 
any earlier, so Mr T and Mrs T carried out the permanent repair as they thought this was the 
best way to stop the damage getting any worse. They also took photos of the damage and 
provided this to QIC.
The surveyor visited on the day the roof was being repaired. He spoke to the roofers and 
saw some of the debris that had been removed from the roof. The claim was then declined 
on the basis of the surveyors understanding of what he had been told by the roofers. I can 
understand that QIC would have wanted to see the roof before any permanent repairs were 
carried out. However, I can also see that Mr T and Mrs T tried a temporary repair that failed 
and then needed to take further action because water continued to enter their home and 
make the damage worse. The only option available to them seemed to be a permanent 
repair.
Mr T and Mrs T disagreed that their roofer said the roof damage was the result of poor 
workmanship. They provided this service with their roofers assessment of the roof. This said 
the roof was partially bonded and fixed with some nails and that the surveyor had reached 
his own conclusions about this. The roofer described previous inspections of the roof over 
recent years and said it was in good working order. The roofer said that in his opinion the 
damage was the result of the storm.
Our investigator passed this report and some photos to QIC and asked it to consider them. 
When QIC replied, it said its position had been prejudiced by the work being carried out. It 
said that as it had been told the roof hadnt been fitted correctly, it went along with that 
advice. It said that if the roofer was now going back on his comments, it couldnt now 
validate the claim as all of the evidence had been removed.
I think QIC was provided with a range of information by Mr T and Mrs T. The surveyor was 
also able to assess the condition of at least some parts of the roof if he had wished to do so, 
such as the parts that were on the ground during his visit. QIC seems to have relied on the 
surveyors explanation of what the roofer said. However, when it has been provided with the 
roofers first-hand assessment of the roof, it seems to have dismissed this. I dont think QIC 
has acted fairly. QIC seems unwilling to consider the roofers findings and instead has said 
Mr T and Mrs T prejudiced the claim. The work wasnt complete when the surveyor visited 
and he could have carried out more of an inspection when he was at the property, but didnt 
do so.
So, I need to decide on the balance of probabilities whether I think the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage. Im aware what the surveyor said he was told by the roofer. 
But I think the first-hand evidence provided by the roofer is the most reliable. This describes 
the condition of the roof when it had previously been inspected. It also described the 
condition of the roof following the storm. The roofer concluded that the storm was the most 
likely cause of the damage. Even if there were some issues with the condition of the roof, a 
storm doesnt need to be the only cause, it needs to be the main cause. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think its fair to conclude that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
There was also internal damage. The surveyor didnt consider this because Mr T and Mrs T 
didnt have accidental damage cover. In my view, the surveyor should have considered the 
internal damage anyway, as this could have been the result of the storm, even if he didnt 
think the roof damage was. Ive seen the photos of the internal damage. I havent seen 
anything to suggest there was evidence of internal damage before the storm. The damage 
seems to have happened as a result of the storm and then got worse when the temporary 
repair failed. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require 
QIC to settle the damage for the roof and the internal damage. Im aware Mr T and Mrs T 
have already had the work carried out to the roof. So, I currently intend to say QIC should 
pay the cost of the roof repair. For the internal damage, I currently intend to say QIC must 
deal with the damage covered by the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. If Mr T and Mrs T have already had the work carried out, QIC must pay them those costs. 
For any cash settlement made for works already carried out, QIC must pay interest on that 
amount because Mr T and Mrs T lost use of that money. 
I also think Mr T and Mrs T will have been caused distress and inconvenience by how their 
claim was handled and the decision to decline it. So, I also currently intend to say QIC 
should pay £150 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 6 January 2023. 
Mr T and Mrs T confirmed they had nothing further to add. QIC didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my decision or what I require QIC 
to do to resolve the complaint.
Putting things right
QIC should pay the cost of the roof repairs carried out and settle the claim for the internal 
damage. For any cash settlement, it should pay interest on that amount. QIC should also 
pay £150 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is decision 
that this complaint is upheld. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mr T and Mrs T the cost of the roof repairs carried out.
Settle the claim for the internal damage, including the costs of any works Mr T and Mrs T 
have already carried out.
For any cash settlement that is for costs already paid by Mr T and Mrs T, it must pay 8% 
simple interest on that amount. This should be calculated from the date on which Mr T 
and Mrs T made the payment to the date on which QIC settles the claim.
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman