DRN-1658670
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Miss R took out an URCA in November 2008 with Bank of Scotland.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including mobile phone insurance, travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a fee free overdraft of up to 
£300, for a monthly fee of £10.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Rs complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Miss 
R disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Miss R was aware the URCA was optional and 
whether she was given a clear choice in taking the account.
Miss R says she took out the URCA because she was told by Bank of Scotland that it 
would help her to get an overdraft. Whilst I dont doubt Miss Rs honest recollections, I 
think after the years that have elapsed, Miss Rs memory is mistaken.
Miss R has told us shed had a fee free account before she took out the URCA, so she 
knew she didnt have to pay a fee for an account.
Bank of Scotland has also provided evidence that Miss R applied for and got a £200 
overdraft limit with her fee free account before taking out the URCA. So, in my view, she 
knew she could get an overdraft without taking out the URCA.
I also think its more likely than not that she wouldve been aware at the time of sale or 
shortly thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts were easily available to her from 
Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial businesses as these were widely 
advertised. And while the URCA did provide her access to discounted overdraft facilities, 
not having one didnt exclude her from having an overdraft from Bank of Scotland.
And if she had taken out the URCA and then realised she wasnt going to get or use an 
overdraft, she could have cancelled her account at any time and used a fee free one, but 
she didnt, and she still had the URCA until recently. 
So, in my view I cant say its more likely than not she was told she should take out an 
URCA to get an overdraft when she opened it and just accepted this, as I would have to 
uphold her complaint on this point. So, I think Miss R was aware she had a choice and 
chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt advise Miss R to take out the policy. Miss R says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of her needs or circumstances to show 
that Bank of Scotland did advise Miss R to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Miss R as though Bank of Scotland was saying 
the URCA was a good idea. But this is not the same as advising her or making a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Bank of Scotlands sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Miss R on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Miss R with enough information about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, RAC 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover, mobile phone insurance, card protection, 
purchase protection and a wide range of discounts. And it offered better overdraft facilities 
including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know what Bank of Scotland said or what information it gave Miss R about the URCA. 
But, as Ive said above, I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve described the URCA to 
her at some length as it was trying to sell the account to her. And I think the URCA would 
have been of interest to Miss R.
I say this because Miss R had a car and a mobile phone at the time, and she says she had 
house insurance which implies the home emergency cover wouldve been useful to her. And 
Bank of Scotland has provided evidence that she used her overdraft facility and enquired 
about the travel insurance after taking out the URCA.
From what Miss R has said about her personal circumstances at the time she took out 
the account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of the URCAs 
benefits.
Miss R says she had alternative arrangements for some of these things. But it wouldve 
been for her to end those and use her account when she wished to. And it was also for her 
to close the account if she no longer wanted it at any time.
So, in my view, Miss R knew she had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it; 
the URCA was not unsuitable for her, and there was no information that she wasnt given 
that would have put her off buying it.
So, I dont think Miss R lost out as result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done
wrong.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman