DRN-4205587
The complaint
Mr G complains about the price charged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
to renew his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G received a quote to renew his policy which was 39% higher than what hed paid the 
previous year. Mr G queried this but says staff at Admiral werent able to explain why the 
price had increased. Mr G complained as he believed the price increase related to his age, 
which he feels is discriminatory. Admiral responded and explained, when they price their 
policies, they consider a wide range of factors based on the risk presented. They said, this 
includes occupation, class of use for the car, number of years a licence has been held and 
claims history. Admiral explained, while age is a rating factor they take into consideration, 
they dont specifically charge a higher premium when a customer is over a certain age.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought Admiral hadnt treated Mr G unfairly 
in relation to his renewal price. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr G paid a premium of £777.28 in 2021 but then received a quote for £1,079.41 
in 2022. This is much higher than what Mr G paid the previous year  so I understand why 
Mr G is concerned. Admiral have provided me with confidential business sensitive 
information to explain how Mr Gs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this 
with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied 
the price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence 
that other Admiral customers in Mr Gs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr G would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about Admirals 
risk model, but Admiral have provided their rating tables, and this demonstrates the changes 
in their rating structure. It also shows they take into account a range of factors when 
calculating a price for a policy. I note Mr G feels Admiral have discriminated against him 
based on his age  and he feels this is a breach of the requirements set out under the 
Equality Act. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when 
deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
I can see Admiral have taken age into consideration, but this is based on their analysis of 
claims statistics. I do acknowledge Mr Gs points and why he feels this is unfair. But, its for a 
business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to 
those risks. We do however expect businesses to treat customers fairly, and in this case, 
Admiral have based their rates on claims statistics  which I dont think is unfair. I also wish 
to reassure Mr G that the change in his age between 2021 and 2022 hasnt affected all the 
ratings in the way he believes it has. A number of the rating tables show Mr Gs age 
grouping remained the same for both of these policy years. And despite the age Mr G 
reached in 2022, this didnt change his age categorisation across these rating tables from 
the previous year. 
I think its also important to add, from the information Ive seen, age isnt the only factor 
which Admiral rate based on claims statistics. I can see their rating for other factors links 
directly to their view of the risk presented by those factors  and is based on claims 
statistics. So, I cant say Admiral are adopting an approach which discriminates against 
customers in a specific age group  or which otherwise treats them unfairly.     
While we dont have the power to direct a business on what their risk model should look like, 
we can look to see whether theyve acted fairly. And, in this case, I think Admiral increased 
Mr Gs premium at renewal correctly in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings 
and underwriting guidelines. Mr G may feel this is unfair, but Admiral, like all insurers, will 
review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the 
premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they changed 
their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and 
Mr G hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
I do appreciate Mr G will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response when he called 
to speak with staff at Admiral to find out what specifically had led to the price increase. 
Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will often 
be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Admiral have acted unreasonably in not providing 
more detailed information in response to the specific questions raised by Mr G.
I can see Mr G says, if Admiral are discriminating against him, they need to prove they have 
good reason and also show their action is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate 
aim. Mr G also says he suspects Admirals pricing algorithms have been set in a way which 
increases premiums for customers in a specific age group and those writing the algorithms 
didnt know or didnt care it could lead to discrimination. I have carefully considered Mr Gs 
points but, from the information Ive seen, I cant say Admiral have acted unfairly. While the 
price of Mr Gs policy did increase, the approach taken by Admiral and the information 
theyve taken into account when changing their rating structure, isnt unfair or unreasonable. 
Its not uncommon or unusual within the insurance industry for an insurer to carry out up-to-
date analysis of claims statistics to determine changes to their risk ratings  and thats what 
Admiral have done here.  
I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman