DRN-1705186
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a disputed transaction from his current 
account.  
What happened
Mr A says that on the 28 June 2019 an online payment for £17.99 was made from his Monzo 
account that he didnt authorise.
Mr A says on the day of the disputed transaction he was at home asleep and noticed the 
transaction the next day. Monzo have provided evidence that the payment was made via the 
app on his phone. Mr A explained that his phone unlocks either by facial recognition or a 
passcode which only his seven year old daughter knows. And he thinks the payment wasnt 
made via the app on his phone. 
Monzo investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transaction. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. They thought Mr A had authorised the transaction. 
As Mr A didnt agree with Monzos decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude that the transaction had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it 
was most likely authorised by Mr A.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said he doesnt believe the payment was 
made from his home address.
As Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me to decide. 
I asked our investigator to contact Mr A to clarify his account of what happened, including 
whether hes shared his phone passcode or PIN with anyone and when he noticed the 
transaction. He explained that nobody was aware of his phone passcode  which was 
different to what hed previously said - or PIN and he noticed the transaction the next day. 
And I also asked for more information from the business to show exactly how the payment 
was processed and from what device.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As online banking details were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the transaction 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
Mr As explained at the time of the disputed transaction he was at home asleep with 
his mobile phone. But Im satisfied from the evidence Monzo provided the transaction 
was made from Mr As mobile app  which is only installed on his mobile phone. And 
at this time only Mr As daughter and wife were at home with him. Mr As explained 
nobody knew his phone passcode or Monzo PIN so I cant see a plausible 
explanation for how a fraudster could have obtained these details, accessed his 
phone without him noticing and used them to carry out the transaction. 
As well as needing access to Mr As mobile app, a fraudster also needed to know the 
security code from the back of his debit card  Mr A explained on the 2 July 2019 that 
hed lost his debit card. But hes not disputing point of sale transactions, which 
require his debit card, the day after the disputed transaction which suggests the card 
was still in his possession at this time. 
After the disputed transaction was completed Mr A had £96.99 remaining in his 
account. I find it surprising that a fraudster wouldnt spend all the available funds in 
his account. 
Ive seen evidence from Monzo that a push notification  advising Mr A hed spent 
£28.99 that day was sent to Mr As app soon after the disputed transaction. Mr A 
says he didnt receive this notification. Mr As also explained that he noticed the 
disputed transaction the next day. But, the evidence shows he didnt contact Monzo 
to advise them of the disputed transaction until the 2 July 2019, some three days 
after noticing it. I find it unusual, if Mr A was worried about the security of his account, 
that hed wait this long before querying the disputed transaction with Monzo. 
 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr A authorised the disputed 
transaction. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman