DRN-3490041
The complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying Advance 
account, which was sold to her in December 2012.
Ms B says that the account was mis-sold as she was told that if she wanted to obtain a 
better rate on a mortgage, then she needed to upgrade her account to an Advance account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that the packaged 
account had been mis-sold. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I note that Ms B previously had a fee-paying Plus account in December 2007 (which was 
subsequently downgraded to a fee-free account in March 2009). Although the adjudicator 
addressed this sale in their assessment, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Ms B is 
actually complaining about that sale. From what I have read, Ms Bs testimony relates strictly 
to the sale of the Advance account in December 2012. Therefore, this decision will only 
address that sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having weighed everything up, on balance, I dont think 
the Advance account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
The Advance account that Ms B was sold is a packaged bank account. This means it incurs 
a monthly fee, in return for a package of benefits. As it is sold as a package, consumers are 
unable to pick and choose what it comes with. Therefore, it is fairly common for account 
holders to not need or use all of the benefits  but that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
Instead, it is up to the consumer to decide whether the account is worth taking out for the 
benefits that they are able to make use of.
In this case, Ms B says she was told to upgrade to the Advance account as it offered 
preferential mortgage rates, and Ms B says that at the time she was intending to 
remortgage. I can see that Ms B did remortgage in January 2013, so I dont doubt that she 
wouldve wanted to make savings on her mortgage where possible.
At the time of the sale, the Advance account did offer preferential terms to those re-
mortgaging with HSBC. Below is an extract from the welcome pack that was in force at the 
time of the December 2012 sale:
Mortgages
As an HSBC Advance customer you will enjoy preferential mortgage terms or rates. 
Preferential mortgage terms are available to customers who have HSBC Advance when they 
apply for a mortgage product or transfer their existing mortgage to a mortgage with HSBC. 
The preferential mortgage terms that apply to HSBC Advance customers will vary from time 
to time. Any preferential discounts may not be used in conjunction with any other 
promotional or special mortgage offers, Buy To Let mortgages and mortgages taken out with 
First Direct. For full details of our latest preferential terms available please pop in to your 
local branch, phone us on 0800 494 444 or take a look at our website 
www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages. If you no longer hold HSBC Advance we may withdraw the 
preferential rate. Our mortgages and other loans are subject to security and status. An all 
monies charge will be taken over UK properties. 
Therefore, as Ms B was looking to remortgage, I think whoever she spoke to wouldve 
pointed out this feature of the account to her and I think it was this information that most 
likely led Ms B to agree to the account. 
HSBC has explained that, when Ms B did remortgage in January 2013, she didnt get a 
lower rate of interest on her mortgage, as this was not available with the Advance account at 
the time. But it says that she did save £200 on the booking fee, as a result of having the 
Advance account. 
I appreciate that Ms B recalls being told that to qualify for the mortgage rate, she would need 
to upgrade her account to the Advance account. However, I think its just as likely that she 
was told that by having the account HSBC could provide her with preferential terms on her 
mortgage (which was actually the case) and she agreed to the Advance account for this 
reason. I say this especially as the sale of the account took place many years ago and Im 
mindful that recollections can fade and change over time. 
I note that the Advance account also included travel insurance, which was clearly highlighted 
on the declaration form that Ms B signed  so I think she was made aware that it (alongside 
the breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance) was a benefit included with the account. 
And although Ms B says she never travelled abroad between 2010 and 2019, there is 
evidence to show that Ms B did travel abroad in January 2013  which was shortly after the 
upgrade. So I think its possible that Ms B mayve upgraded so that she could rely on this 
cover as well. HSBC also says that Ms B had a Flexible Saver account when the account 
was sold to her, and the Advance account did provide preferential interest rates on Flexible 
Saver accounts as well  so this again mayve been another feature that mayve been of 
interest to Ms B. 
As such, based on everything I have seen, when deciding what was most likely to have 
happened, Im unable to conclude that Ms B was incorrectly told that shed get a better rate 
of interest on her mortgage. I think its just as likely (if not more so) that Ms B was made 
aware of the features of the Advance account, which included preferential terms on 
mortgages, and she agreed to it because of the information she was given. I say this 
especially as Ms B had held (and subsequently removed) a packaged account before 
(named as a Plus account then). So, I think she had a good appreciation of how it operated, 
and was aware that she didnt have to have a fee-paying account if she didnt want one. 
Therefore, on balance, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to say that the Advance 
account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Thomas WhiteOmbudsman