DRN-3011687
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly declined a claim made on 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs K made a claim on her policy. Oil vapours could be detected in her 
house and she was worried about the cause of this and impact on her health. Covea sent its 
specialist agent to investigate the problem and attempted to identify the cause. It was clear 
that the vapour emissions were relatively high in two of the downstairs rooms in Mrs Ks 
house and Coveas agent agreed to place a Vapour Extraction Unit (VEU) in the property to 
reduce the impact of the vapours. Covea also agreed that its agent could:
Undertake a pressure test of the oil feed line from Mrs Ks static oil tank;
Excavate and identify any point of loss from the feed if applicable;
And if a loss was identified, carry out additional excavation/sampling of the ground to 
ascertain the impact of any leak.
Trial pits were dug and on the advice of Coveas agent Mrs Ks piping for her oil tank was 
replaced. Coveas agent also produced a full report on the extent of the damage. It was later 
identified the source of the leak was an oil tank from a neighbouring residential property to 
Mrs Ks.
Covea declined Mrs Ks claim and in March 2021 issued its final response detailing the 
reasons why. Covea said it doesnt believe there to be an insured event/peril which would 
cover the loss. It agreed as a gesture of goodwill to leave the VEU in place at Mrs Ks 
property to assist with the vapours while she completed the work to rectify the problem 
herself. It also agreed to cover the cost of the new piping as this has been recommended in 
error by its agent so it felt it was fair to pay for this. Unhappy with the response, Mrs K 
brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Ks complaint and initially said he didnt think Covea had done 
anything wrong. He wasnt convinced the vapour smells in the house could be said to have 
caused damage  as this isnt a defined term in the policy he took its literal meaning to be 
physical harm that impairs the value, usefulness or normal function of something.
Mrs K disagreed and provided additional information and commentary on why she felt the 
claim should be accepted. Our investigator reconsidered this and changed his view. In 
summary he felt the contamination would be covered as it was something that happened 
suddenly, unexpectedly and was an identifiable incident, with the policy providing cover on 
this basis. He felt any remediation work that needed to take place on the driveway, patio, 
paths or terraces of the house should be covered and so Mrs K should be reimbursed for 
any work carried out on these areas.  
Covea disagreed. It referred to our investigators initial assessment of the complaint where 
he explained for a claim to be successful there needs to be evidence of loss or damage. 
Covea used the same definition he provided for damage and said that it didnt believe the 
driveway or patio had been damaged as a result of the escape of fuel. It said the useful and 
normal function of both hadnt been impacted by the escape of fuel as both could still be 
used. And it said, although the policy explains cover is expanded to the other areas detailed 
in the policy booklet, this cover is only in place if an insured event has taken place resulting 
in damage to both the house and other area at the same time.  
Covea disagreed. It referred to our investigators initial assessment of the complaint where 
he explained for a claim to be successful there needs to be evidence of loss or damage. 
Covea used the same definition he provided for damage and said that it didnt believe the 
driveway or patio had been damaged as a result of the escape of fuel. It said the useful and 
normal function of both hadnt been impacted by the escape of fuel as both could still be 
used. And it said, although the policy explains cover is expanded to the other areas detailed 
in the policy booklet, this cover is only in place if an insured event has taken place resulting 
in damage to both the house and other area at the same time.  
Our investigator still felt the complaint should be upheld. He said he believes Mrs Ks policy 
provides cover for loss or damage to her home and its permanent fixtures and fittings 
caused by the escape of domestic fuel.  He felt the escape of fuel had affected the internal 
environment of Mrs Ks home and the external environment was damaged in another way. 
Both were affected at the same time and both require different works to put them right.
He said that while the report provided didnt show there to be physical damage to the 
property, it highlighted the risk the contamination posed to Mrs Ks health. And that it also 
showed work needed to take place to the driveway and patio to rectify the leak and effect on 
the house. He also highlighted that Mrs Ks property value could be adversely affected if the 
contamination wasnt dealt with correctly and so there is a potential loss with its value too.
Covea maintained its position that there has been no physical damage to the property and 
because of this, there is no insured peril. It doesnt feel the remedial works that Mrs K has 
undertaken herself with contractors are covered by the policy and it feels the steps and 
actions it has taken already are fair.
Because Covea didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Covea will be disappointed by this but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision and why I 
feel it is fair and reasonable that Covea reassess and pays Mrs Ks claim.
The starting point is to understand what Mrs Ks policy provides cover for. As our investigator 
has explained, the policy provides cover for loss or damage resulting from a number of 
insured perils detailed in the policy booklet. This includes the following:
 6. Escape of water or Domestic Heating Fuel
a..(covers escape of water)
b Domestic heating fuel leaking from any fixed domestic heating installation, such as a boiler.
Following damage insured by (a) and (b) above, well pay the cost for finding the source of 
the damage up to £10,000. This includes the cost for any resulting repairs to floors, walls 
and ceilings.   
The policy doesnt state a leak is only covered if from a personal domestic heating 
installation. With it being silent on this, I think its fair to apply any ambiguity in favour of 
Mrs K and so the fact the leak originated from a neighbouring residential property means I 
think it can still meet this definition. And I think based on this, its clear damage as a result of 
a domestic heating fuel leak is something covered by Mrs Ks policy. 
I dont think Covea dispute this cover is in place but instead whether any damage has 
occurred as a result of the leak and that the absence of this means theres not an insured 
peril. Ive thought about this and whether I think damage as described by our investigator is 
something which needs to be demonstrated here. 
The specialist report provided by Coveas agent gives a great deal of detail about the effects 
of the fuel leak on Mrs Ks house. The report is 28 pages with a mix of detail on the location 
with photos of the site together with opinion and recorded readings from a handheld 
Photoionisation Detector (PID) used to identify the presence of volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) and whether theres a risk to human health. Both Mrs K and Covea have seen this 
report so I dont intend to repeat all of what it says. But I think its important to consider some 
key findings when understanding whether damage has occurred to Mrs Ks property and 
whether the form in which this has presented itself should be covered under the policy.
Within the preliminary risk assessment of the report on page 10 of the document, it details 
the risk identified as a result of the leak. Under Vapour Inhalation (indoors) it says the 
following:
Internal vapours have been reported to OHES and therefore a significant risk exists
This risk is later reduced to high while the VEU remained in place with Mrs Ks health being 
noted as a reason for this continued increased risk  even with the intervention in place.
Later at the end of the section titled 4.2 Air Monitoring and Sampling, the report says the 
following:
Given the identified high levels encountered during the VOC screening, high risks have 
been identified to human health from contaminants in air and remediation is considered 
necessary
The report at no point says there has been physical damage to Mrs Ks property  although it 
does say theres a direct impact to the drainage structure which means a direct impact to the 
building structure can be confirmed, with it being likely future contamination along the 
drainage pathway is a risk while the contamination remains. But I think the level of the PID 
readings and the impact this would likely have on human health  not  withstanding Mrs K 
and the fact she was already extremely unwell  means its fair and reasonable to say the 
property wasnt fit for purpose as a result of the leak. And while I understand physical 
damage is normally expected, I think a pragmatic approach is right to be taken when 
deciding whether the property was adversely affected by the leak and could be said to be 
damaged because of this. 
I think its also worth noting that Covea offered to provide Mrs K with alternative 
accommodation  so it recognised how the house was not fit for purpose with the levels of VOC present. I think this demonstrates whether physical or not, that the house was 
damaged and although the VEU reduced the risk to Mrs Ks health, this wasnt a permanent 
fix which could be relied on. 
The cause of the vapours within Mrs Ks property have been identified as the oil leak with 
contamination of the site persisting inside the property. The policy does attempt to exclude 
contamination but as our investigator said, I think the nature of the event here means the 
exclusion doesnt apply. The oil leak from the neighbouring property is something that 
happened suddenly and unexpectedly and is an identifiable incident. So I dont think the 
exclusion detailed on page 43 of the policy booklet can be applied here. As a result I think 
the damage caused by the fuel leak and the contamination are covered by Mrs Ks policy.
Covea has explained that the extension of the policy to other parts of the property to include 
patios, terraces, paths and driveways as set out under section A of the policy booklet on 
page 14, are only applicable if the main home is damaged by the same insured event. It also 
doesnt agree that damage has happened to these areas of Mrs Ks home.
I dont think I need to debate whether the patio or drive were damaged as a result of the oil 
leak. I say this because even if theyre not, the remedial work needed to correct the damage 
or impact to the house means the work undertaken on them was always going to be needed. 
If this wasnt undertaken I think the risk of the property continuing to pose a significant risk to 
human health would remain. So to correct this and make the house useable again, Covea 
would have needed to follow the remedial recommendations made in the report as has been 
completed by Mrs K. So whether the patio or driveway were still usable as expected with the 
oil saturation below the surface makes no difference.
I understand Mrs K has instructed the specialist agent of Covea directly to carry out the 
remedial works recommended at her own expense to make her house habitable again. 
Based on what Ive explained above I think its fair that the cost of this is covered by Covea. 
The damage to Mrs Ks property, although not physical is clear with the impact recognised 
by both Coveas agent in its report and Covea with the steps it has taken. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, Covea should accept and settle Mrs Ks claim, 
reimbursing any costs shes already paid to Coveas agent.
As Mrs K has previously paid these costs and is out of pocket, it should also add simple 
interest of 8% on any payment with interest applied from the date Mrs K made the payment. 
If it feels it is appropriate to do so, Covea may deduct income tax from this interest at the 
standard rate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to settle this claim inline with my 
recommendation above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman