DRN-3653402
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down his business interruption insurance claim after he was forced to close his pub due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr C was part of a partnership which operated a pub. A commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by RSA offered business interruption cover for the pub.
Mr C said his son came to the pub for a meal on 15 March 2020. He said his son had flu-like 
symptoms and a dry cough. The following day his son called NHS 111 and was told to 
self-isolate. A test taken at the end of April 2020 confirmed that his son had had Covid-19.
Mr C decided to close the pub on 17 March before a big St Patricks Day celebration which 
had been planned for that evening. As a result of the restrictions imposed by the 
Government in response to Covid-19 the pub remained closed in March 2020. 
Mr C claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered 
business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr C hadnt shown 
that Covid-19 was manifest at the premises before Government restrictions came into force.
Mr C complained to our service. Our Investigator looked into his complaint but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. He said there was nothing to suggest that a case of Covid-19 
had manifested itself at the premises. 
Mr C asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr Cs claim.
The most relevant part of Mr Cs policy is the section headed Disease, Murder, Vermin and 
Pests. This covered amongst other risks:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises.
For cover to be provided, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the 
business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely Mr C closed his business because there 
was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at his premises. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that theyve suffered a loss 
their policy covers.
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Mr Cs policy  
required there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises.
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises. This can be contrasted with other 
policies that require only that a disease has occurred. A disease may have occurred in a 
person prior to it manifesting. But Mr Cs policy requires the disease to manifest.
Mr C has provided evidence of an antibody test taken by his son at the end of April 2020. 
This shows that his son had had Covid-19 but not when. He has also forwarded text 
messages from 17 March in which Mr Cs son referred to having Covid-19 symptoms at that 
time. Unfortunately for him Mr C hasnt been able to produce any evidence that his son was 
in the pub on 15 March or that while he was there, he had Covid-19 symptoms. He also 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence such as social media posts for the pub citing the 
reason he gave RSA for closing the pub. So, I dont think RSA treated Mr C unfairly in saying 
that there was insufficient evidence of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Mr Cs premises.
I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr C. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman