DRN-3739274
The complaint
Ms A complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave her a line of credit she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms A approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 17 November 2019. Ms A was given a 
facility with a £1,000 credit limit and the credit limit remained the same throughout the time 
Ms A had the facility. Drafty has confirmed the facility still had an outstanding balance as of 
September 2022. 
Ms A was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be 
clear, Ms A was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter it explained why it was going to partly uphold her complaint. 
Drafty thought, based on the checks it carried out that it was reasonable of it to have 
approved the facility. Drafty concluded.
 However, we can see there is a possibility that allowing the continued use of the 
line beyond October 06, 2020 may not have been sustainable in the long term.
To put things right, We will:
 Refund all interest and fees incurred due to redraws after October 06, 2020
 Pay an extra 8% simple interest on this amount. 20% of this will have to be withheld 
for tax, as Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) tell us
we must do this
 Adjust this refund amount against any outstanding balances you have with us
 Give you a certificate of the tax we have withheld (for use in any discussions with 
HMRC)
 Contact credit reference agencies to remove any negative marks on your file as a 
result of using your credit line after October 06, 2020.
Drafty explained that after carrying out the above, Ms As outstanding balance would reduce 
to £615.37. Unhappy with this offer, Ms A referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Where one of our adjudicators looked at Ms As complaint. She thought the checks Drafty 
carried out before granting this facility were proportionate and showed it Ms A was likely to 
be able to afford the payment amount as outlined in the hypothetical payment schedule in 
Ms As credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £1,000 being drawn down at the 
outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Ms A with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable, it also had an 
obligation to monitor Ms As ongoing use of the facility. 
The adjudicator agreed with the date that Drafty thought the complaint ought to be upheld 
from 6 October 2020. In her view, Ms A had showed she was struggling to make the 
contractual repayments by their due date, Ms A had made her payments late in each month 
between June  September 2020. Due to Ms As repayment difficulties Drafty ought to have 
realised that the facility had become unsustainable for her. Knowing this, in the adjudicators 
view Drafty shouldve stepped in and shouldve frozen the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Ms A from 6 October 2020 should be refunded, along with additional simple interest of 
8%. She also said any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from her credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (6 October 2020). However, it agreed to only refund the interest 
fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was 
made, Drafty explained this would lead to Ms As balance being reduced to £387.33. Drafty 
also agreed to remove any adverse information from Ms As credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
6 October 2020. It said this was because: 
However, it also implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were 
reasonable for us to grant. So, it seems to us that it would be unfair and 
unreasonable (and crucially asynchronous to the way other customers to whom we 
have provided draws) for us to be required to refund interest to Ms A [full name 
removed]
Draftys updated offer was put to Ms A but she didnt accept it. Therefore, as no agreement 
has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. As explained, Ms A was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Ms A would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Ms As repayment record for any sign that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  6 October 2020. And while, Ms A rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty she didnt and hasnt appeared to disagree that this is the point 
where the complaint ought to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
6 October 2020. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused 
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Ms As complaint.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Ms A while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 6 October 2020 needs to be refunded. 
Drafty has accepted, that the facility had become unsustainable for Ms A by October 2020. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken had it stepped in at this time to provide assistance to Ms A. There were a number of 
options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were taken and Im 
satisfied that action ought to have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty 
ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after the event. And the 
proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this sometime after the event.
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.
I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Ms As outstanding 
balance, in circumstances where this increased the chances of her being unable to repay is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Ms A, the way Ms A had repaid the facility from June 2020 ought to 
have altered Drafty that Ms A was likely having financial difficulties given she was making 
her payments late. 
In my view, the way Ms A had repaid her facility in the recent months was a sign the whole 
facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Ms A to repay 
what she owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair and reasonable for Drafty to 
have continued charging interest on this balance from 6 October 2020 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
facility was unsustainable by 6 October 2020 as well as thinking about the way Ms A had 
repaid the facility in recent months. It therefore follows that it isnt just the new drawdowns 
that Ms A couldnt afford. She also couldnt afford to repay what she already owed. So 
Draftys actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns 
needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Ms A. 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if Drafty is able to and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty is unable to buy the debt back it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Re-work Ms As credit facility balance so that any additional interest, fees and 
charges applied from 6 October 2020 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should try and come to a suitable repayment plan with Ms A for 
the outstanding balance. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Ms As credit file, it should backdate this to 6 October 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms A, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Ms As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Ms As complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Ms A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman