DRN-3013896
The complaint
Mr R complains A J Bell Management Limited didnt provide the service or information it 
should have done in relation to his shares.
What happened
Mr R had an execution only dealing account with A J Bell through which he held shares in 
Orange, a French resident company. In 2019 Orange issued a dividend amounting to 
1,560.29 Euros gross based on the shares held by Mr R. He received 1,092.21 Euros net. 
He emailed A J Bell and asked why he had been taxed so much. It responded and explained 
that withholding tax at 30% had been deducted from the dividend before payment to him. He 
responded and said this was wrong because he was not a French resident so should only 
have been taxed at 12.8%. 
I issued a provisional decision and, in short, made the following key findings:
The withholding tax rate for non-resident individuals was 30% before January 2018 
but some withholding tax could be reclaimed if the relevant forms were filed.
I am not satisfied there was any requirement on A J Bell to structure its service to suit 
Mr R or any other client. It can generally offer the service it wants to if it complies with 
its regulatory obligations. The service wasnt deficient because it could have been 
structured differently such that it could have benefitted Mr R or other clients.
There was no requirement for A J Bell to file the appropriate form  Form 5000 to 
show Mr Rs non-residence status.
The form was to do with withholding tax and A J Bell would only be obliged to file this 
if it was providing a withholding tax service, which its terms and conditions make 
clear it didnt provide in relation to Mr Rs Orange shares.
It was Mr Rs responsibility to be aware of what he needed to do and the forms he 
needed to file regarding withholding tax.
I have seen no persuasive evidence that Mr R couldnt reclaim withholding tax 
because the shares were held in a pooled account.
A J Bell could be expected to provide specific information about the different rules 
applied by various overseas jurisdictions about withholding tax.
The most that A J Bell could reasonably have been expected to do was to provide a 
generic warning, along the lines of the example Mr R has provided, that clients may 
not be able to reclaim withholding tax held in a pooled account.
I am not persuaded that Mr R would have done anything differently if such a generic 
warning had been provided, given he wrongly thought the right amount of tax would 
be deducted without him having to do anything.
As he wasnt aware of what was required from him regarding withholding tax in the 
first place there is no reason to think he would have taken notice of a generic warning 
about possible consequences resulting from the shares being held in a pooled 
account.
The full findings in my provisional decision are set out below and form part of this final 
decision.
I think it would be helpful for me to set out the withholding tax position as I understand it. 
From the information I have considered dividends paid by a French resident company 
before 2018 to non-resident individuals and legal entities such as companies were charged 
a rate of 30%.
However, a non-resident individual could claim back some of the withholding tax if there 
was a double taxation treaty between France and the individuals country of residence  as 
there was between France and the UK. This wasnt automatic and the relevant form/s had 
to be completed by the non-resident individual.
From January 2018 the rate for non-resident individuals was reduced to 12.8% but this 
wasnt applied automatically. Again, the individual needed to file relevant form/s to either 
have this rate applied before the dividend was paid or to reclaim withholding tax after 
payment.
Turning to the specific points in this complaint I note that in response to the investigators 
opinion Mr R has stated that what he is complaining about is that A J Bell didnt provide 
him with the information it should have done about the possible tax consequences of being
invested in a pooled investment account.
However, I note that in correspondence with A J Bell before the complaint was referred to 
us Mr R stated that he was complaining because A J Bell had failed to file the correct 
form/s regarding his residential status.
And on referral to us Mr R said, in short, that his complaint revolved around A J Bell not 
structuring its service so as to not cost him money and failing to explain in its terms and 
conditions, or otherwise, that it held assets in a pooled account with respect to 
withholding tax so he was subjected to an erroneous rate of tax.
Although Mr R now appears to have narrowed his complaint to being about not being told 
of the potential tax consequences of being invested in a pooled investment account, I 
think it is appropriate to make findings on the other issues he has raised previously.
Im not satisfied that there is any requirement for A J Bell to structure the service it 
provides to suit Mr R, or any client. I think it can generally offer the service that it wants, if 
it complies with its regulatory obligations. Such service isnt deficient simply because it 
could have been structured differently such that this would have benefitted Mr R or other 
clients. It is open to a client to accept or reject the service that is being offered. It is worth 
me pointing out that other brokers also hold client investments in pooled accounts, so this 
isnt unusual.
Regarding the suggestion that A J Bell failed to file the appropriate form to show that he 
was the beneficial owner of the shares and was a non-resident  Form 5000  I dont think 
there was any requirement for A J Bell to do this. There is nothing in its terms and 
conditions which suggested it would do this.
The only purpose of Form 5000, as far as I am aware, is to ensure that a non-resident 
investor either has the correct amount of withholding tax applied to their dividends in the 
first place or to allow withholding tax to be reclaimed  if it is filed with Form 5001 after 
withholding tax has already been deducted.In the circumstances, as Form 5000 is only relevant to withholding tax I am satisfied that 
A J Bell would only be responsible for completing this if it was providing a withholding tax 
service.
Its terms and conditions included the following:
We only provide a withholding tax service on overseas investments in selected markets 
and do not provide a tax reclaims service on overseas investments. You are responsible 
for checking whether We provide a Withholding Tax Service before you place an order for 
an overseas investment.
A J Bell didnt provide such a service in relation to Mr Rs Orange shares and I note Mr 
R has also said he didnt expect it to provide such a service or to reclaim his tax. Given 
my finding that the provision of Form 5000 would have been part of such a service I 
am not satisfied that A J Bell had any obligation to complete Form 5000 on Mr Rs 
behalf.
I am satisfied that it was for Mr R to be aware of what he needed to do and what form/s he 
needed to complete to either pay less withholding tax in the first place or reclaim 
withholding tax already paid. It is worth noting that he would have needed to complete the 
form/s if his shares were in his name in any event.
This leaves the issue of whether A J Bell needed to say anything about potential tax 
consequences of being invested in a pooled investment account. I say potential 
consequences because I am not able to say, based on the evidence provided, whether 
the shares being in a pooled investment necessarily means withholding tax couldnt be 
reclaimed.
A J Bell couldnt be expected to provide specific information about the different rules 
applied by various overseas countries about withholding taxes and whether holding the 
investments in a pooled investment account would affect the amount paid or what could be 
reclaimed.
In the circumstances I think the most that A J Bell could reasonably be expected to do is 
provide some generic warning. The example Mr R has provided from another business is 
that clients may not be able to reclaim withholding taxes because the investment would be 
held in a pooled investment account.
I am not persuaded that Mr R would have done anything differently if A J Bell had included 
some general statement in its terms and conditions along the lines of the example he has 
provided. His correspondence with A J Bell suggests he wrongly thought the right amount of 
tax would be deducted from his dividend in the first place without him having to do anything.
Given he wasnt aware of what was required from him regarding withholding tax in any event 
there is no reason to think he would have taken any note of some generic statement about 
possible consequences regarding withholding tax as a result of assets being in a pooled 
investment account.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further argument or evidence before I finalised my decision. Neither AJ Bell nor Mr R 
provided any response.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any further information my findings remain the same as set 
out in my provisional decision. In short it was Mr Rs responsibility to understand what he 
needed to do regarding withholding tax. Although I think A J Bell could reasonably be 
expected to provide information about the possibility that withholding tax might not be 
reclaimable because the shares were held in a pooled account, I am not persuaded that 
such a statement would have led Mr R to do anything differently.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman