DRN-4507386
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt allow him to take a new fixed interest rate 
product. He also says that Lloyds hasnt treated him fairly when hes been in arrears, adding 
fees to the mortgage and taking legal action.
What happened
Mr A took out this mortgage in 2006, borrowing around £200,000 on a repayment basis over 
a 21-year term. A further advance was taken in 2008. At the same time a new fixed rate 
product was taken out, and the entire mortgage was moved to interest-only.
The last preferential interest rate product on the mortgage was fixed at 5.69% until 30 June 
2011 and since then the mortgage has been on the standard variable rate (SVR).
The mortgage went into arrears, and Lloyds took legal action with a suspended possession 
order being granted in May 2010 on the basis Mr A paid his contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) plus £100 each month. The remaining arrears were then capitalised in March 2012.
Unfortunately the account went back into arrears in October 2012 and eviction dates were 
obtained in March 2013, January 2014 and May 2014, each being cancelled when Mr A 
made arrangements to pay.
A further court hearing took place in July 2014 with a new payment arrangement being set at 
CMP plus £350 a month. Further eviction dates were booked for October 2014 and 
September 2015, again both were withdrawn.
In 2015 a complaint was made by a claims management company on behalf of Mr A. Lloyds 
responded on 10 June 2015 and in that it summarised the complaint as:
You sent a complaint regarding Default Charges on 14 January 2015 but have not 
had a response.
You would like a response and for a full refund of the relevant charges applied to the 
mortgage account of your client.
Lloyds said it hadnt received the earlier letter and said that, whilst the fees were correctly 
charged, it would remove £516 of fees (plus £174.72 of interest) from the mortgage account. 
It also said it would pay £50 compensation directly to Mr A.
In September 2017 a further court order was obtained by Lloyds, with an eviction date 
booked for November 2017. That eviction was also cancelled and then Mr A cleared his 
arrears in April 2018.
The account transactions from August 2021 until September 2023 were as follows:
Date Payment made Payment due
August 2021 £508.97 £508.97
September £408.97 £508.97
October £608.97 £508.97
November £308.97 £508.97
December £506.17 £508.97
January 2022 £200 £508.97
February £508.97 £546.20
March £546.20 £607.57
April £607.57 £607.57
May £507.57 £668.47
June £368.47 £729.22
July £129.22 £729.22
August £400 £791.40
September £0 £915.09
October £139.46 £915.09
November £1,053.08 £1,041.74
December £811.41 £1,228.90
January 2023 £717.99 £1,228.90
February £1,928.40 £1,353.69
March £1,442.24 £1,479.43
April £2,100.24 £1,479.43
May £588.33 £1,539.06
June £0 £1,597.11
July £0 £1,597.11
August £0 £1,734.75
September £404.70 £1,806.62
On 20 September 2022 Mr A called Lloyds in response to a letter hed received in August 
which had asked him to make contact, but he said hed been unable to get through on the 
number provided. He was told it was likely that Lloyds wanted to speak to him about the 
arrears on the account. As Mr A had just got back from work he said he couldnt provide 
detailed information about his income and expenditure at that time and it was left that hed 
call back on 26 September. A complaint was raised about the problems getting through on 
the phone.
Lloyds responded to that complaint on 23 September. It apologised and explained that it had 
received very high call volumes at the time. Lloyds asked him to call again to complete the 
discussion and to set a plan to clear the arrears.As there was no further contact from Mr A, and the payments werent being maintained 
Lloyds instructed its solicitor on 2 November to recommence legal action.
Mr A called Lloyds on 9 November as hed received a letter and wanted more information 
about the potential eviction. He was given up to date information about his arrears situation 
and he said hed call the evictions team the following day (as their office was closed by the 
time of the call).
On 10 November Mr A called back as he wanted to get the eviction stopped and to put an 
arrangement in place. He said he was struggling because the payment was going up, but his 
income remained the same so asked if he could arrange a new fixed rate product. Lloyds 
said it was unlikely he would be able to get a rate whilst he was in arrears and no 
arrangement could be set as Lloyds required the full arrears to be cleared. It said that, other 
than the recent complaint, it hadnt received any contact from Mr A since 2020 despite 
writing to him about the arrears, and the arrears were worsening again so it had no option 
other than to enforce the possession order unless the arrears were cleared in full. Lloyds told 
Mr A that whilst it couldnt set a formal arrangement on the account, it would never stop him 
paying and he should pay as much as he could each month. It also said he should seek 
independent debt advice.
Mr A called Lloyds again on 15 November. He said hed been out of work in July and had 
started working again in August. He said he didnt make the full mortgage payments as he 
was clearing other bills, and having spoken to a debt advice service he wanted to set an 
arrangement to repay the arrears. Mr A was told the legal action would only be cancelled if 
the full arrears were repaid.
As there was no further contact from Mr A Lloyds, on 10 February 2023, instructed a third-
party agent to carry out a pre-eviction visit to the property.
On 17 February Mr A called Lloyds as hed received a letter from the third-party agent about 
the visit. Mr A provided information about his income and current situation. A further 
complaint was raised in that call. The notes indicate the complaint was that Mr A:
was unhappy with the amount of letters and what they entailed, and
felt that if he had been able to set an arrangement in November 2022 then he 
wouldnt be in this situation.
The notes indicate the complaint was resolved over the phone with Lloyds explaining why 
the letters needed to be sent, and why an arrangement couldnt be put in place in November 
2022.
The income and expenditure information from February 2023 indicated Mr A had £1,900 a 
month available to pay to this mortgage.
On 2 March 2023 Mr A referred the complaint to our service. In our complaint form he 
summarised his complaint as:
I called the bank to fix my interest rates. They refused to come back to me or agree 
on an arrangement to settle my arrears. They have threatened to bring in bailiffs to 
reposess [sic] my house.
I am in arrears and struggling very hard to settle the arrears, which has worsened 
because they refused to act.I want them to return the interest to where it was and pay me back all the charges 
and fees they keep adding to my account.
Lloyds looked at the points it hadnt previously considered and issued a new complaint 
response on 31 March 2023. It didnt uphold the additional points and so Mr A wanted to 
progress his complaint with our service.
When Lloyds provided its file to our service it said its policy had changed since its response 
to the complaint had been issued in March. It said it could now offer a mortgage review to 
customers in arrears to see if there is a suitable new product for them. Lloyds said there 
were still other criteria that had to be met and a full review was required to go through an 
application, but if Mr A contacted it and made a successful application then it would 
backdate that new rate to 1 May 2023.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and said she didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr A 
fairly. She said Lloyds had an opportunity to look at Mr As circumstances, and had it done 
so she thought a new fixed rate should have been offered to Mr A in March 2023 as a 
forbearance measure. She also said she didnt think the most recent legal action was fair. To 
put things right she said Lloyds should rework the account as if a fixed interest rate product 
was in force from March 2023, refund the recent legal fees charged and pay £350 
compensation to Mr A.
Lloyds didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
In November 2023 I issued a decision about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. In 
that I said:
For the reasons Ive explained, our service only has the power to consider the fees and 
charges part of this complaint in respect of any fees and charges incurred since 3 March 
2017.
In respect of the other parts of this complaint, we can consider all of those as they all took 
place within the six years leading up to this complaint being made.
I then considered those points and issued a provisional decision to set out my thoughts on 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I issued my provisional decision in November 2023, the findings of which said:
New preferential rate product
As the mortgage is on the SVR, it means Mr A must pay more each month than if a 
preferential interest rate was available. I accept that its not as easy for him to pay a higher 
payment, and hed rather pay less.
Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of this case and the issues Mr A has faced. 
Its clear things have been very difficult for him for a long time  the suspended possession 
order in May 2010 noted arrears at that time of around £18,000 - and the account has been 
in arrears on and off over the term.
Mr A cleared the arrears in April 2018 and, whilst his payments werent regular set 
amounts, his account remained broadly up to date.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr A asked for a new preferential interest rate 
product at any point before November 2022 so that is the date Im considering this part of 
the complaint from.
In general, Lloydss criteria at that time was that a borrower in arrears isnt eligible for a 
new fixed rate. And there were good reasons for that  a borrower in arrears is more likely 
to end up selling the property or even have it repossessed, which would add an early 
repayment charge.
However, notwithstanding the eligibility criteria, there are circumstances in which it might 
be fair to expect a lender to offer a new fixed rate. For example, where the borrowers 
circumstances are such that a reduction in the interest rate is enough to make the 
mortgage affordable and bring it back on track. Our Investigator thought this was one such 
case and recommended that Lloyds offer Mr A a new rate, backdated to 10 November 
2022. In some cases I would agree with our Investigator, but having considered Mr As 
mortgage status, transaction history and contact notes very carefully Im not persuaded Mr 
A should have been offered a new rate at that time.
Mr A has said he struggled due to the SVR increasing, leading to his contractual monthly 
payments going up. But looking back to September 2021 which was just over a year before 
Mr A requested a new rate and five months before the SVR started to increase, he 
underpaid three out of the five months (between September 2021 and January 2022). 
Although he overpaid in October 2021, that was only enough to cancel out the September 
2021 underpayment. He then underpaid by £200 in November 2021, and by just over £300 
in January 2022.
Even if Mr As contractual mortgage payment had remained at around £510 a month, he 
would still have significantly underpaid in June, July, August, September and October 2022 
 paying around £370, £130, £400, £0 and £140 respectively.
So at the time he asked for a new rate in November 2022 Mr A wasnt showing he was 
even able to sustain his previous lower payments, and the new rate Lloyds had available at 
that time would have led to his payments being around £1,470 a month  more than double 
the lower payment that he hadnt been maintaining.
I think this shows that offering Mr A a new interest rate from November 2022 wouldnt have 
resolved the underlying issue. It wouldnt have made the mortgage affordable for him, and 
there was a serious risk that Mr A would have needed to sell the property (or that it would 
be repossessed). It was reasonable for Lloyds to take that risk into account.Im therefore satisfied that in refusing Mr A a new interest rate in November 2022 and 
thereafter, Lloyds didnt treat him unfairly in all the circumstances.
However, Im pleased to note that more recently Lloyds has changed its policy, and it says 
it can now offer a mortgage review to customers in arrears to see if there is a suitable new 
product for them. Lloyds has said there is still other criteria that need to be met and a full 
review is required to go through an application, but if Mr A contacts it and makes a 
successful application then it will backdate that new rate to 1 May 2023. Lloyds has also 
said that, as part of the discussion, it would need a plan to be put in place to deal with the 
arrears to prevent further litigation. I leave it to Mr A to make contact with Lloyds to discuss 
this further.
I also dont think there were other measures Lloyds could have offered to help him get the 
mortgage back on track. It wouldnt have been appropriate to capitalise the arrears, since 
whilst the mortgage wasnt affordable and the arrears were rising, increasing the monthly 
payment through the addition of the arrears would have made the situation worse. The 
mortgage was already on interest only, so a term extension would make no difference. And 
a reduced payment arrangement wouldnt change the amount due.
Im not persuaded that its attempts to understand Mr As circumstances and to warn him 
about the risks of repossession (as it is required to do) were inappropriate or threatening  
though, given his circumstances and the worry of losing his home, I understand why Mr A 
might have perceived them to be.
Ive taken into account everything Mr A has said and I do understand the difficulties hes 
faced and the stresses hes been under. But the reality is that offering Mr A a new fixed 
rate from November 2022 in place of the SVR wouldnt have changed things or solved the 
underlying problem. In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Fees and charges since 3 March 2017
I can see that four charges were added to the account in the period Im able to consider: 
October 2017 £390.60 legal fees
December 2017 £146.40 professional fees for the eviction that was booked
March 2018 £4,347.00 legal fees
February 2023 £241.60 legal fees
Ive seen the invoices for those costs, and having reviewed the status of the account, along 
with the transaction history and contact notes Im satisfied they were all fairly charged. The 
legal and other professional costs have been incurred by the lender due to the level of 
arrears on the account and the litigation that was undertaken. As Lloyds has had to pay a 
third-party for that additional work, it is only fair those costs are passed onto Mr A, and that 
is part of the terms of the mortgage agreement.
In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly uphold this part of the complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr A said he didnt agree with my provisional 
findings. He said, in summary:
Lloyds wrote to apologise to him. He wants to know what Lloyds apologised for and why.
Lloyds hurriedly instructed its solicitors to return to court with a possession order, adding 
fees and charges to an already spiralling debt, only to later withdraw the matter.
Lloyds blocked all attempts by him to prevent an increase in arrears.
He has sleepless nights about all this and the numerous letters Lloyds writes to him. 
He was hoping The Financial Ombudsman would be more critical in our deliberations 
and take all information into consideration.
Mr A didnt provide us with a copy of the letter of apology he was referring to so I cant be 
sure what this is. I can only suggest he contacts Lloyds directly if he is unsure about the 
content, and reason, for any letter it has sent to him. That said I can see an apology in two of 
the letters we hold on file, both of which seem fairly self-explanatory:
23 September 2022;
oYou received a letter directing you to our website and asking you to call us, 
when you called no one answered
I would firstly like to sincerely apologise for the upset and concern this matter has 
caused you.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, we are experiencing an exceptionally high 
volume of calls. This has driven up our call waiting times on some occasions. We 
are monitoring our call volumes on a daily basis and doing all we can to reduce call 
waiting times. I am sorry we werent able to answer your call as quickly as we would 
have liked to.
31 March 2023;
oFirstly, please accept my apologies for the time it has taken to respond to your 
concerns.
oWe empathise with our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. Im 
sorry you feel that were not doing more to help you and felt threatened when you 
contacted us. Its not our intention to cause you upset. We fully appreciate that 
customers being in arrears with their mortgage is not a position anybody places 
themselves in deliberately. Having said that, we do have a duty of care to inform 
you how important it is for you to keep in touch with us so we can try to help.
Having considered the conduct of Mr As account over the full term of the loan, and then 
more specifically the transactions since August 2021 that Ive detailed previously I dont 
agree that Lloyds instruction of its solicitor was hurried.
Having reviewed the contact history it doesnt seem Mr A was proactive in letting Lloyds 
know what was happening, and in providing his income and expenditure information. In fact, 
the only contact from Mr A seemed to be when he raised the complaints, and in response to 
letters from Lloyds saying it was going to progress to legal action.
Mr A has said that Lloyds later withdrew the legal action, but that was because hed made 
this complaint and so Lloyds  quite reasonably  put the legal action on hold until wed 
considered his complaint in full. That is good customer service, and what I would like to see. As I explained in my provisional decision, any fees and charges Lloyds incurs when 
administering Mr As mortgage account will be passed onto him. Thats only fair, and is in 
line with the terms of his mortgage contract. 
It isnt clear what Mr A means by his claim that Lloyds blocked all attempts by him to prevent 
an increase in arrears. Whilst Lloyds couldnt offer Mr A a new interest rate product (for all 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision) I cant see it did anything to block Mr A from 
paying as much as he could. His February 2023 income and expenditure information 
showed he had £1,900 a month available to pay to this mortgage, yet in June, July and 
August 2023 he paid nothing, and he only paid £588 in May 2023 and £404 in September 
2023.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr As mortgage was already held on an interest 
only basis, so extending the term would make no difference to the monthly payments. 
Capitalising the arrears would put Mr A in a worse position as his contractual monthly 
payment would then increase further, and a reduced payment arrangement would still cause 
arrears to build up as any amount underpaid would be added to the arrears balance. In 
addition, this wasnt a short-term issue as Mr A had been in arrears on and off throughout 
the term of his mortgage. Previously the arrears had only been cleared after Lloyds had 
obtained an order for possession and an eviction date had been booked. I cant see there is 
anything I would expect Lloyds to have reasonably offered here that would have made a 
difference to Mr As arrears balance increasing.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A. This decision doesnt intend to 
in anyway downplay or disregard his situation as I understand how distressing this must be 
for him. But he owes this money to Lloyds, and the debt is secured against his property. 
Lloyds has a regulatory responsibility to send certain letters to Mr A and so I cant say it is 
acting inappropriately in issuing those, and it has the right to take legal action if the arrears 
arent cleared (or a reasonable plan isnt agreed to by the parties). 
If Mr A is struggling with his payments and bringing the arrears down on his mortgage then 
he can speak to Lloyds to see if there are any other options, either directly or with the help of 
someone trained to give him free debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. Id 
encourage Mr A to contact Lloyds as a priority (either directly, or via an agency as Ive 
explained above) and have an open and honest conversation about his circumstances and 
worries for both now and the future. But in terms of the complaint that was brought to us, I 
simply cant uphold it however much Mr A may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman