DRN-2778027
The complaint
Miss A complains that she had to request a replacement bank card from Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) three times before she received it and that Lloyds used the wrong address when 
writing to her.
What happened
Miss A has an account with Lloyds.  She says she lost her bank card in August 2020 and 
ordered a replacement which didnt turn up. She says it took three attempts at ordering a 
new card before she received it. She says that Lloyds blamed the postal service for the 
cards not arriving, but Lloyds were using the wrong address when they wrote to her.
Miss A complained, but Lloyds said they had sent the cards to the address they held on file, 
which had been confirmed by Miss A when she ordered the new cards. Miss A received 
Lloyds final response letter, but it contained an error which meant her address wasnt typed 
correctly. Lloyds apologised for the typing error but didnt agree to pay any compensation.
Miss A wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
says that Lloyds are still using the wrong address and that she keeps having to call them 
about it. She says that, while she was waiting for the new bank card, she had no access to 
funds and this meant she wasnt able to attend a funeral. She says the situation has had a 
very negative effect on her and she wants Lloyds to pay some compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly here. But Miss A didnt agree and 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A feels strongly about her complaint and has raised a number of points for me to 
consider. I can assure her Ive taken them all into account in reaching my decision. So, if I 
dont comment on a specific point here, its not because Ive failed to take it into account  
its because I dont think I need to comment on it specifically in order to set out my overall 
findings clearly and concisely.
When Miss A moved to her current address, she informed Lloyds of the address change by 
phone. Ive listened to that call and Im satisfied Miss A gave Lloyds the full address. 
Unfortunately, it seems that when Lloyds updated their system, part of Miss As new address 
was omitted. That does seem to be a mistake on Lloyds part. However, I dont find that it 
stopped all post from reaching Miss A. The address details which were recorded on their 
system seem to have been enough for most post to be delivered to Miss A successfully. 
Statements were sent to the address held on Lloyds system. And a replacement card was 
sent to Miss A using that address in December 2019. I understand that she received these 
items.
Im satisfied that Lloyds sent the first two replacement cards which Miss A ordered. Lloyds 
records show that they were sent to the address held on their system. But I dont doubt that 
these cards didnt reach Miss A.
However, I cant safely conclude that its Lloyds fault that the cards didnt reach Miss A. Ive 
taken into account the fact that the building number was included in the address used. And 
previous post addressed in this way had reached Miss A.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Miss A has a responsibility to ensure that Lloyds 
have her correct address details. As Lloyds had sent previous post to her using the 
incomplete address, which she appears to have received, Miss A had the opportunity to 
notice this and inform Lloyds. And Lloyds say that, as part of her online requests for the 
replacement cards, Miss A had to confirm the address to which they would be sent. She 
didnt amend it at the time of these requests, so Ive also taken that into account in reaching 
my decision.
Before Miss As third request for the new card (in September 2020), she updated her 
address to include the missing part. Following this, she received the card.
By this stage, Miss A had been without a debit card for around three weeks. She has 
explained how this affected her and I sympathise with her situation. But Lloyds say she was 
able to access the funds in her account during this time, using transfer and faster payment 
facilities. I can see that Miss A did use her account during the period she was without a card. 
So, although I understand that it was inconvenient for Miss A to be without the card, I dont 
find that it prevented her from accessing her funds.
Its unfortunate that there was a typing error in the address of Lloyds final response letter. 
But it didnt stop the letter reaching Miss A. Lloyds have apologised for the mistake and I 
think thats fair. So Im not going to ask them to do any more about that.
I realise Miss A will find my decision disappointing. But Im afraid I dont think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably here, for the reasons set out above. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman