DRN-1618760
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a secured loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 1996. Mr and Mrs C paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C, in case he 
was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
its understandable that neither side have the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Cs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs C dont remember buying PPI, and I think 
thats also understandable, given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale 
was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened 
based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Nationwide to have misled Mr and Mrs C into 
having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Nationwide did here. Nor have 
I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. From what Ive seen of its 
process, it looks like the PPI wouldve been described as optional and its cost wouldve been 
set out separately to the cost of the loan, and not as something that was part and parcel of 
the loan. Ive not seen anything which shows that Nationwide significantly departed from its 
normal sales process here, or that it otherwise misled Mr and Mrs C. So I think its most 
likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs C aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer recalled 
doing so after a number of years.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs C clear information about the PPI.It is possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to 
have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr C was eligible for the cover and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy was competitively priced, and 
covered Mr C for much longer than his existing benefits, while paying out on top of them. Its 
worth bearing in mind that this loan was a long-term commitment that was secured against 
Mr and Mrs Cs property. Their circumstances were liable to change over the years, and if 
they fell behind on the repayments they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the policy 
couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of 
mind. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs C could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr C mentioned that there was an occasion where he may have been able to claim 
on the policy, but didnt. If Mr C was eligible to claim and didnt, then he may now be able to 
make a back-dated claim on the PPI. If hed like to do that, he should get back in touch with 
Nationwide in the first instance. And if he has any issues with the back-dated claim, he may 
be able to bring that to our service as a separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of 
this policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman