DRN-1557191
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that MBNA Limited placed a default her credit card account after she 
switched her current account to another bank but some of her direct debit payments, 
including the one for her MBNA card, werent changed across.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss G switched her current account to a different bank. But she found that 
a few of her direct debits werent properly set up when the account changed, and this meant 
that her usual direct debit to pay the minimum payment to her MBNA card was returned as 
unpaid. 
At this time, Miss G was experiencing some financial difficulties. She spoke with MBNAs 
support team about her situation and what had happened. During this call, Miss Gs income 
and expenditure were reviewed along with her situation at the time, and MBNA said this 
demonstrated that she couldnt afford to make any payments to her credit card balance. She 
was sent a letter which confirmed this, which also said that this meant it wouldnt be 
prevented from registering a default with credit reference agencies. Miss Gs credit card was 
already blocked from being able to be used for new purchases at that time.
MBNA sent Miss G a notice of default in February 2019 which said the arrears should be 
paid by March 2019. It then sent a final demand letter as no payment had been received. But 
Miss G didnt receive either of them so was unaware that her credit card account was going 
to default, which it then did in April 2019. 
Miss G complained. She said that when shed spoken to MBNA she was told her account 
wasnt close to defaulting, and that it would contact her before it did. She felt that, if shed 
been told the account would default without making a payment, then she couldve borrowed 
the money to make it. She said the situation had impacted upon her health; business and 
ability to get credit elsewhere. She asked MBNA to remove the default and pay her 
compensation.
But MBNA said it was unable to remove the default from Miss Gs credit file, as it had sent 
her letters to her correct address. It said it had correctly followed its processes. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and initially thought that MBNA hadnt 
acted fairly as Miss G was told during that phone call that interest and charges had been 
stopped on her account, and that it wasnt expecting her to make a payment. 
The investigator thought the main reason for the arrears was Miss Gs financial situation, 
rather than the failed direct debit. The investigator said that, although MBNA had followed 
the correct process for the default, he didnt think it was fair for MBNA to issue a default 
notice after this phone call, given what shed been told. He said Miss Gs arrears werent a 
large sum of money, and what Miss G has said was reasonable  that she could borrow this 
amount to avoid the default. The investigator recommended that MBNA remove the record of 
the default from Miss Gs credit file and pay her £100 by way of compensation. 
Miss G didnt consider this compensation was enough because of the stress she suffered as 
a result and the impact on her health; career and personal life. 
And MBNA also didnt accept the investigators findings as it said it had looked to support 
Miss G with her financial situation for several years before the account defaulted. This was 
because there were a number of occasions that her credit limit had been exceeded; that she 
was in arrears with her payments; and a reduced payment arrangement had been agreed. 
Miss G had made one payment to her account after the arrangement ended in December 
2018, and then the payments stopped as the direct debit went unpaid. It said that Miss Gs 
account had defaulted when she was four months in arrears and after shed demonstrated 
that she couldnt afford to make any payments.
 
The investigator reviewed his findings after considering these responses. And he felt that 
MBNA had shown that it had more fully considered Miss Gs position before defaulting her 
account, than had been indicated from just listening to the one call recording. He thought it 
was likely that her account wouldve defaulted anyway. But he thought it was wrong of 
MBNA to have told Miss G her account was nowhere near defaulting and it shouldve been 
made to clear to her that not making payments wouldnt be enough to prevent the default 
being registered. While the investigator changed his opinion that MBNA should remove the 
default, he still felt that it should pay Miss G compensation of £100 as he said the situation of 
the default shouldve been made clearer to Miss G during the phone call. 
Miss G didnt accept what the investigator had said, as she couldve borrowed the money 
and had evidence to show that she received payment for work that shed done, so the 
expenditure form was irrelevant. She didnt think the account shouldve defaulted.
MBNA also didnt accept the investigators findings, as it said that the default had been 
applied correctly, with notice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to hear about the difficult time Miss G has been experiencing, both personally 
and with her health. And I can understand that this situation will have added to the worry and 
upset shes had. 
Ive looked through all the history of Miss Gs credit card account and Ive listened to the 
recording of her conversation with MBNAs support team in February 2019.
Miss G initially missed making a payment to her MBNA card following her statement in 
January 2019. And this related to her changing her bank account and that her direct debit 
wasnt transferred. After attempting to collect the payment in February 2019, MBNA found 
that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled. 
It was after this that MBNAs support team spoke to Miss G about her personal and financial 
situation and, after discussing Miss Gs plans; possible future income and ability to carry on 
making the minimum payments towards the balance, it froze the interest and charges on the 
account. Following this, MBNA gave notice of its intention to default her account.
I know that the default initially related to the missed payment of £42.75, and Miss G feels 
that she wouldve been able to borrow this to repay it, if she had known that not doing so 
would mean her account would default. But I think MBNAs actions looked beyond that to 
consider Miss Gs longer-term ability to maintain the debt on her credit card account. 
Her account records show that she had previously been in arrears with her repayments, and 
her account had been with MBNAs support team for some time because of her personal circumstances. It had agreed a reduced payment arrangement for a six-month period before 
the return to the contractual payments in January 2019. It was after that that the payment 
wasnt received in February 2019. Miss G was unable to use the credit facility for spending 
at that time and expressed the impact other personal circumstances had already had on her 
ability to obtain credit elsewhere in the phone call with MBNA.
So I think MBNA reached the decision to issue a default notice to Miss G based upon its 
assessment of her financial situation that didnt have the means to keep up with her 
repayments towards the credit card debt.
 
Its unfortunate that Miss G didnt receive the default notice or final demand letters, and I can 
understand the reasons shes told us about why this was. But MBNA sent them to the 
address it held for her, as it was required to do. I cant say that it was at fault for her not 
receiving them.
However, I do agree that, from listening to her conversation with MBNAs support team, she 
wouldve been left with the understanding that she had made MBNA aware of her 
circumstances, and that the representative told her the account wasnt close to defaulting at 
that time. She was also told that MBNA wasnt expecting a payment from her. 
I can see that MBNA did follow this call with a letter that set out the actions it was taking 
because of her financial difficulties. This also said that she had demonstrated that she wasnt 
able to afford to make a payment to the account and this may not prevent MBNA registering 
a default with credit reference agencies. But, at the time of the call, Miss G was abroad and 
didnt have access to her post. She also explained her intentions for the times when she 
would be living at her home address to MBNAs adviser.
Overall, I do think the MBNA applied the default correctly in the circumstances.  However, I 
think that it couldve done more, particularly during that phone call, to make Miss G aware of 
its intentions and the position of her account. I appreciate that his may not have prevented or 
delayed the actions MBNA took regarding the default because of the way the account had 
been maintained to that point, and Miss Gs financial situation. But Miss G had explained the 
health problems she was experiencing, and some of the difficulties shed had in her personal 
life, and I think that her expectations could have been managed in a better way if the 
process MBNA was following had been more fully explained. 
Putting things right
Because I think MBNA couldve explained the actions it was taking on Miss Gs account 
more clearly to her, I think it should make a payment of £100 to Miss G for the distress this 
caused.
I understand a balance remains on the credit card debt, but MBNA is not actively collecting 
this at this time. Any payments that Miss G does make towards it will reduce this balance 
and MBNA has said that if it is cleared completely, it will show as a satisfied default on 
Miss Gs credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require MBNA Limited to pay Miss G 
£100 to recognise the upset she was caused .Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman