DRN-3705991
The complaint
Mr G complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) delayed arranging 
assistance following an accident, and applied charges after his car had been written-off and 
the insurance cancelled, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr G was involved in an incident when driving. His car collided with a large 
aluminium sheet which caused an engine warning light to come on, followed by the engine 
stopping. Mr G says he manged to stop his car at the end of an off ramp, but this was 
causing a blockage. He phoned One Call and waited 15 minutes for it to answer. He says he 
told the agent that he needed rescuing and his vehicle was in a dangerous position. 
Mr G was told he was in an accident not a breakdown. After half an hour he was told a 
recovery response would be sent within 60 to 90 minutes. Mr G says he was passed to 
another department to ask about a hire vehicle. He waited for around 20 minutes at which 
time the police arrived, and he had to end the call. Mr G asked his wife to continue 
contacting his insurer at this point as his mobile battery was running low.  
Mr G says he wasnt aware that One Call wasnt his insurer but rather it was acting as his 
broker. He says responsibility was passed between One Call and his insurer when dealing 
with the situation. He says it was over six hours until a rescue vehicle arrived.
Mr G says that after his car was written off, he was charged further amounts, which he 
doesnt think is fair. 
One Call responded to the charging aspect of Mr Gs complaint to say it had acted in line 
with the policy terms when cancelling the policy and in the charges it raised. As a gesture of 
goodwill, it removed the cancellation fee for £10.31 and the broker fee for £39. It says this 
reduced the balance owing to £54.23. Mr G didnt accept this outcome and referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He explained that Mr Gs claim following the 
collision with the aluminium sheet was his insurers responsibility, not One Calls. He says 
One Call doesnt have authority from his insurer to deal with its claims. This means it wasnt 
involved in providing a regulated activity and so this isnt something our service is able to 
consider. He says One Call followed Mr Gs policy terms in requesting payments owed, and 
when cancelling the policy. 
Our investigator thought One Call had communicated clearly with Mr G about the charges 
owing and the action it would take to cancel the policy. He thought the goodwill gesture to 
remove the cancellation and broker fee was reasonable. But he didnt think the business 
need do anything further. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Firstly, I must explain Mr Gs complaint about One Calls role in the delayed arrival of the 
rescue vehicle isnt something we can consider. Were not free to consider every complaint a 
customer brings to us. In this case One Call wasnt carrying out a regulated activity, it was 
his insurers responsibility to handle his claim. One Call doesnt have authority from Mr Gs 
insurer to handle claims. So, we dont have jurisdiction over it to consider the delayed 
recovery issue. 
I am aware that Mr G has a separate complaint against his insurer relating to other issues 
connected to this incident. I wont comment on that further. My remit here is to consider Mr 
Gs concerns about One Call and the charges raised after his claim. 
I note Mr Gs comments that he was, stunned that payments continued to be taken after 
the accident, when there was nothing to insure. 
Ive read the Information Booklet provided to Mr G to understand what charges are expected 
to apply in these circumstances. The terms under the, Policy Cancellation section say:
Cancellation Fees After the 14-Day Cooling Off Period
After the 14-day cooling off period has ended, you still have the right to cancel your policy. 
There is a set charge structure applied to the cancellation of any insurance policy arranged
through One Call Insurance, which takes into account our administration costs for arranging 
the policy and administrating the policy cancellation.
If a claim has been made you will be charged the full premium as well as any broker charges 
and the full cost of any value added products bought during the policy.
Mr G made a claim as a result of his car colliding with the aluminium sheet. I acknowledge 
his comments that his car was considered a write-off after the accident, which meant there 
was nothing to insure. But the policy terms explain that where a claim has been made the full 
premium will be charged. This means Mr G still owed the remaining monthly premium 
payments when he cancelled his Direct Debit instruction.  
I can see that One Call wrote to Mr G in April 2022 prior to it cancelling his policy. It 
explained the charges owing, that his payment hadnt been received via his Direct Debit 
instruction and that he should provide a payment. The business later wrote to him to confirm 
the cancellation. This included a breakdown of the charges owing. Based on the policy terms 
I cant say One Call behaved unfairly when applying these charges. 
One Call has since removed the broker fee and cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill. I 
think this was reasonable. But Im not persuaded that One Call should refund any other 
charges as these are payable under the terms of Mr Gs policy.
In summary, although Im sorry for the upset Mr G experienced following his accident, I dont 
think One Call behaved unfairly when cancelling his policy and raising the charges it did. So, 
I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman