DRN-3309608
The complaint
Mr O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around May 2017, Mr O was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr O decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed. 
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Os behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr O to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr O or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr O and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr O does not recall seeing the quotation or this being discussed during the sales 
meeting however accepts that he was sent a copy of the quotation afterwards. Upon 
receipt of the quotation, our client had already signed the quotation and agreed to 
purchase the solar panel system. Mr O was repeatedly told by the sales agent that 
the system would be self-funding and relied on these statements when agreeing to 
purchase the system.
The quotation shows that our client would be out of pocket for the first 12 years. Had 
our client had an opportunity to review the contents of this quotation, he would not 
have agreed to the purchase on the basis that he did not want the additional monthly 
expenditure and it would take a significant period of time for him to reap any benefit 
from the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Os recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr O agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr O agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Mr O have alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr O has said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr O could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr O could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £163.50.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr O could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £236.77 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr O the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £681.14. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr O entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £115.09. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £115.09, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr O could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr O that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr O was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr O could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr O that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr O couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr O entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr O to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman