The complaint
Mr M complains that a cheque deposited to his Nationwide Building Society took longer than 
it should have to clear. 
What happened
Mr M paid a £500 cheque to his Nationwide account on 13 December 2019. Nationwide 
cheque clearing information says that cheques deposited before 7pm (Monday to Friday) will 
clear by 11.59pm the next working day. Mr Ms cheque wasnt credit to his account until      
19 December 2019 when he called Nationwide to find out why his cheque wasnt in his 
account.   
Mr M says that as a result he had to borrow money from his family to cover some expenses 
and that he spent several hours chasing this matter up with Nationwide.
Nationwide has not disputed that there was a problem. It has apologised for the delay and 
explained this was due to a technical issue with its image clearing system. And it credited  
Mr Ms account with £75 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
But Mr M says that he never received Nationwides letter which explained the problem and 
he expected it to contact him to discuss the matter before simply paying compensation into 
his account, Furthermore, he doesnt think the compensation is sufficient to recognise the 
time he spent dealing with the matter. So, he referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. And he felt that Nationwide should increase 
the compensation payment by £25 i.e. Nationwide should pay £100 in total. Mr M didnt 
comment on this, but Nationwide disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter afresh.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the 
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Mr M and Nationwide, so they had the 
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings 
were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has not disputed that an error occurred  Mr Ms cheque took longer to clear
than it should have. So, I dont need to make a finding on what went wrong. In these
circumstances, my role is to consider whether Nationwides mistake caused Mr M a financial 
loss and/or material distress and inconvenience. And if so, to tell Nationwide what it needs to 
do  if anything, to put things right.
DRN-2204570Mr M has told us that he had purchases he needed to make and some bills to pay. He says 
he was able to do these transactions, but only because he borrowed money from a family 
member. He also says the time he spent dealing with the matter cost him a days work.
And I can see  from Mr Ms account statements, that he did make several payments and
case withdrawals from his account during the period between the cheque being deposited
and when it was eventually cleared. I can also see that a third-party transferred money into 
his account on 21 December 2019.
But Ive also seen that Mr M had an agreed overdraft facility on his account. And looking at
the transactions on his account, I think he wouldve have been able to make all the
payments he needed to within that facility without incurring any charges. I accept that the
delay meant that Mr Ms account wouldve been a few hundred pounds more overdrawn - 
fora few days, than it wouldve have been had the cheque cleared on time. But given Mr Ms 
account was overdrawn to some extent for much of the month, I dont think the delay here 
wouldve increased the interest Mr M paid on his overdraft by more than a few pounds. Ill 
refer to this again later in this decision.
Mr M has told us he is part self-employed and that he lost a days work as a result. But I
havent been provided with any evidence to support this. And I also note that Mr M also said 
the time he spent amounted to two to three hours on the phone. So, I cant safely say this 
wouldve amounted to a loss of a days work. And, in response to this, Nationwide has said 
that, on the day Mr M called, its records show that the average call waiting time was 11 
minutes and so its unlikely that Mr Ms call wouldve taken as long as he said it did.
So, I cant be certain how long Mr M spent on the phone. But even if I accepted that Mr M
spent several hours on the phone, we dont make awards based on the hours spent
resolving a problem or on a consumers hourly rate of pay. Rather, we look at the
circumstances as whole to decide what is fair.
And here I think Mr M would have had to spend some time resolving this problem. And, I
agree that the matter - as a whole, caused him some distress and inconvenience. So, Ive
thought about this carefully, taking all the above into account.
I know Mr M has asked for £150 compensation to resolve the issue and our investigator
thought £100 overall was fair. But, based on what Ive seen, I think the £75 already paid by 
Nationwide is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think this amount adequately
compensates Mr M for the time he spent dealing with this matter and the additional few
pounds he paid in interest on his overdraft.
I know Mr M has told us that he didnt receive Nationwides final response letter and that it
paid the £75 compensation into his account without speaking with him first. But Ive seen a
copy of the final response letter and its addressed correctly. And I dont think its unusual 
fora business to pay compensation directly to an account when it is upholding a complaint. 
And in making the payment, Nationwide hasnt impacted on Mr Ms ability to pursue his 
complaint further. So, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in this respect.
Overall, I think Nationwides compensation payment is fair. So, I wont be asking it to take
any further action in respect of this complaint
Response to my provisional findings 
Neither party provided any further information for me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence was provided, Ive not found any reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that  
Nationwide Building Society has already paid Mr M compensation which I consider to be fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman