DRN-2768939
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the way Qmetric Group Limited, trading as Policy Expert, dealt with 
an enquiry she made about her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A had a home insurance policy arranged by Policy Expert. The insurance cover was 
provided by a different company. She called Policy Expert because shed paid to have some 
damage put right at her home and wanted to know whether it was covered by the policy.
A claim went ahead and the insurer declined it. Mrs A complained that Policy Expert had 
given her incorrect advice during the call and had encouraged her to pursue a claim that was 
subsequently declined. As a result there was now a claim on her insurance record which 
could have an impact on her policies in the future. She also thought the call hadnt been 
handled well in other ways  mainly the time it took and the questions she was asked.
Policy Expert said it had handled things fairly and in line with the policy terms. An 
investigator considered Mrs As complaint and thought Policy Expert had acted reasonably. 
Mrs A disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Policy Expert communicated with Mrs A it had a duty to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive listened to the call Mrs A had with Policy Expert. She explained a pipe under her 
driveway had burst and shed paid to have it put right. The policy would only cover the 
damage if it had happened accidentally. She didnt think the cost of the work was covered 
because it was unlikely the pipe had been damaged this way. But she wanted to check.
Policy Expert told Mrs A the policy covered accidental damage to underground pipes. To 
decide whether her costs were covered, the claim would need to be investigated by the 
insurer. If the damage was found to be wear and tear or gradual deterioration of the pipe, it 
wouldnt be covered.
Policy Expert explained the claim would be logged on her insurance record if she went 
ahead with it and let her know it could impact her future premiums. This is consistent with 
the policy terms, which say that when notified about an incident that may or may not lead to 
a claim Policy Expert will record it on the insurance record.
When the insurer investigated the claim, it declined it because it thought the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. The outcome of the claim isnt in dispute, so I havent considered 
that. But Im satisfied the information Policy Expert gave Mrs A was consistent with the way 
the claim was considered.
Mrs A has described feeling actively encouraged or advised by Policy Expert to make the 
claim. Having listened to the call, Im not persuaded that was the case. It outlined what the 
policy covered but didnt indicate Mrs As claim would be covered or should make a claim. 
Only that she could make a claim if she wished to. It asked her whether she would like to 
proceed with the claim and Mrs A said she would. It gave her the relevant information and 
allowed her to make an informed choice about what to do. I dont think it pressurised or 
rushed her into making a decision.
I think that was the reasonable thing to do. I dont think it would have been appropriate for 
Policy Expert to seek to persuade or dissuade Mrs A about whether to make a claim. Or to 
make a decision about the claim before the insurer had considered it. A pipe bursting may 
have amounted to accidental damage so I dont think Policy Expert would have acted fairly if 
it had said the claim wouldnt be covered prior to it being investigated by the insurer. 
I accept Mrs A may not have called Policy Expert with her mind set on making a claim. She 
was clear at the beginning that she didnt think the claim was covered. But she did want to 
check and understand her options. Im satisfied Policy Expert set out those options fairly and 
it was Mrs As choice to make the claim.
Mrs A has complained about other aspects of the call. She says she had expected a brief 
discussion about the claim but instead spent over half an hour being asked many questions, 
some not directly related to the claim. I can understand her point, because many of the 
questions were to check the details shed given when setting up the policy, rather than about 
her claim.
I think Policy Expert could have been clearer with Mrs A at the start of the call that it would 
ask a number of these questions before moving onto the claim itself. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Policy Expert to ask the questions  its common for insurers to check 
these details when a claim may be made. And Im satisfied all the questions were relevant to 
the insurance policy and were asked politely.
One of the questions was about previous claims. Mrs A didnt recall making any but Policy 
Expert said an insurer had logged one on her insurance record several years earlier. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Policy Expert to ask about this as it may have revealed the 
information it knew about Mrs A was wrong.
Mrs A later took this up with the insurer who logged the claim and it accepted it had done so 
wrongly. So I can understand why Mrs A may have felt concerned when she was asked 
about it by Policy Expert. But Policy Expert couldnt have known the record was wrong at the 
time it was speaking to Mrs A, so I dont find it acted unfairly by asking about it. I dont 
consider it accused Mrs A of any wrongdoing.
Mrs A has questioned how long the person she spoke to had worked for Policy Expert. I 
dont think thats relevant. What matters is the information she was given and the service she 
received and overall Ive found that was clear and fair.
Im satisfied Policy Expert was clear with Mrs A about her options and the impact of 
proceeding with a claim  and handled her enquiry fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman