DRN-2859468
The complaint
Mr A complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company but for ease of reference Ill refer to 
all submissions as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Bamboo approved Mr A for a £1,000 loan in March 2020. The term of the loan was 18 
months, with repayments of approximately £90 per month. Mr A says this loan was 
irresponsibly lent to him. He says Bamboo did not complete proportionate checks before 
providing the loan; and had it done so it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to him. 
Mr A says at the time of the loan he was struggling financially and couldnt afford the 
repayments sustainably.
Bamboo disagreed with Mr As complaint. It says it completed proportionate checks; and 
these showed that the loan was likely affordable to Mr A. 
Our investigator recommended Mr As complaint be upheld. In coming to this conclusion 
they argued:
Bamboo did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. This was because 
the evidence which Bamboo had gathered demonstrated that Mr A had been relying 
on a large amount of credit to supplement his income in the form of over 100 payday 
loan accounts in the time leading up to this loan. Our investigator felt this shouldve 
prompted Bamboo to complete further checks to verify the information which it had 
been presented with;
Further checks wouldve likely shown the loan was unaffordable to Mr A. This is 
because the statements which Mr A provided demonstrated he was reliant on credit 
to supplement his income; and therefore this loan would be unaffordable to him.
Bamboo disagreed with this assessment. It maintained that it had completed proportionate 
checks. And these checks had shown that the loan was likely affordable to Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr A. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr As ability to afford the loan 
and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably. Sustainably in this instance means making payments without incurring 
financial difficulties such as having to borrow further or failing to meet other financial 
commitments in order to meet this repayment. 
In this instance Bamboo completed an income and expenditure assessment on Mr A; and 
sort to verify this information by searching his credit file. Bamboo says these checks showed 
that Mr A had been maintaining his credit commitments well, including not having any CCJs 
or recent defaults. The income and expenditure assessment suggested that Mr A had a 
disposable income of approximately £980. Bamboo says these checks were proportionate 
because they enabled it to get a good understanding of Mr As financial circumstances. 
Ive considered Bamboos argument in relation to proportionality, but I disagree it completed 
proportionate checks in this instance. I say this because the credit file search that Bamboo 
completed placed sufficient doubt over the information which Mr A had provided during his 
application; and the assumptions that Bamboo had relied on.
The credit report shows Mr A had taken out a significant number of short term credit over the 
years and months leading up to this application. The credit report shows over 100 accounts 
were taken out in a relatively short time considering the volume being used. This 
demonstrates a pattern of loans being taken out in sequential months suggesting there could 
be a dependency on this form of credit to settle the previous amount.
Mr A also had 16 active accounts at the time of the application. Included in the active 
accounts were credit cards and further unsecured lending. The information from the credit 
file indicates that Mr A was becoming more reliant on his existing credit; such as the 
spending on his credit card increasing in the months approaching this loan application; 
heavier use of mail order accounts, reaching his overdraft limits and the value in the 
unsecured lending increasing too. 
When considering this information against the information that Bamboo was relying on; Im 
satisfied there were sufficient questions being raised on whether Mr A had the high level of 
disposable income Bamboo was relying on. And Bamboo oughtve completed further checks 
to verify Mr As finances and thereby ensure the lending decision it was making was 
sustainable. As it didnt do this, Im satisfied that Bamboo didnt complete proportionate 
checks in this instance.
As Bamboo didnt complete proportionate checks, I have to consider what further information 
wouldve likely shown. In this instance Mr A has provided our service with copies of bank 
statements in the period leading up to this loan. In the absence of other information; Ive 
used this information in coming to my decision on what I believe is more likely than not to 
have happened.
The bank statements demonstrate that Mr A was still in receipt of large amounts of short 
term credit. There are multiple entries for traditional short term providers as well as a 
constant reliance on revolving credit. When taking these amounts into consideration Im satisfied that Mr As finances were such that without these values he wouldve likely been 
running a negative balance. Whilst I can see there is a mixture of discretionary expenditure; 
Im satisfied that it is not to the level that would mean without Mr As reliance on credit that 
this loan would be affordable. Importantly this loan was not being used to clear Mr As 
existing debt; and was likely only going to further increase his overall indebtedness. As 
Bamboo is aware sustainable repayments in this instance means without Mr A incurring 
financial hardship or having to borrower further to meet repayments. And considering the 
statements show Mr A was already likely in a cycle of reliance on credit; Im satisfied that 
any further lending wouldve likely been unsustainable to him. 
Im satisfied that had Bamboo completed further checks it wouldve likely seen Mr As 
financial position was such that any further lending was likely unsustainable; and as such 
ought not to have lent further to him. As it did, Im satisfied that Bamboo acted unfairly, and it 
therefore needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
Mr A has lost out financially as a result of Bamboos actions; as he has had to pay additional 
interest and charges. In order to out things right I require Bamboo Limited to:
Add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount; as well as 
any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo Limited should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr A.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Bamboo Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit 
file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Bamboo Limited must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman