DRN-2553790
The complaint
Mr J complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) service he received when he made 
a claim under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr J made a claim with Aviva as his boiler had broken down. It sent an engineer who found 
that the boiler required several parts replacing. Aviva found that some of the parts were 
obsolete and so declared the boiler beyond economical repair (BER). Under the terms of his 
policy, Aviva offered to provide a free replacement boiler with Mr J paying the
installation costs. Mr J accepted Avivas quote and a new boiler was installed.
The engineers who installed the boiler were only at his property for a few hours and Mr J 
said that given the cost of the installation over £1,300, he expected the engineers to be at 
his home for a lot longer. He felt that the cost of the installation should be quoted in the 
policy terms, so it wasnt an unexpected cost at the time of the claim.
Mr J complained to Aviva and in its final response it said that the installation costs were 
based on a fixed price and not the time taken to install the boiler. It also said that there was 
no obligation for Mr J to have accepted Avivas installation costs.  Aviva also found that Mr J 
didnt have his premiums reduced relating to the boiler cover - which stopped when the 
boiler was replaced. For this, it refunded the element of the premium for the boiler and paid 
£25 compensation for the error.  
Mr J wasnt happy with this outcome and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She said that 
Aviva hadnt treated Mr J unfairly. It provided a quote for installation that Mr J decided to 
take. Mr J had the option of not accepting the quote if he wished. And although Mr J said 
that there were cheaper installers available, Aviva complied with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So, there was nothing further that she could ask it to reasonably do. 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He said he agreed to the installation as he thought it 
was a more complicated job that would take a few days not a few hours. He believed that the 
costs were too high, and that Aviva should be more transparent with its charges, which he 
felt wasnt the case here. He said that Aviva hadnt been honest or fair and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr J, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
Its important that I explain our services role isnt to regulate the insurance industry  but to 
consider individual complaints. We cant tell a business what it should charge but we can, 
when assessing individual complaints, make sure that customers have been treated fairly.
Ive carefully considered all the information that Mr J and Aviva have provided, which 
includes the terms and conditions of the policy as well. I note that Mr J has had cover for 
several years and made a claim when his boiler had an issue. The boiler was deemed BER 
due to parts being obsolete and as a result, I have considered what the policy says in 
situations like this and what Avivas obligations were to Mr J. 
It is accepted by both parties that Mr Js boiler was over seven years old. Looking at the 
terms and conditions of the policy, it provided the following: 
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs.
Aviva did find a new boiler for Mr J and provided him with a quote for the installation cost. It 
quoted £1,355.69 for the installation. Mr J also wanted a filter added and this cost an extra 
£159. Mr J said that he had expected that given the cost of the installation, the installation 
wouldve been more complicated than it was. He said that he expected that the installation 
would take a few days rather than the few hours it took. He felt that the cost of the 
installation should be included in the terms and conditions of the policy so that it was 
transparent to the policy holder.
Aviva has said that the cost of the installation was a fixed price and customers were paying 
for the job and not the number of hours worked.  It said that it supplied the boiler as per the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And it was for Mr J to decide whether he wanted to 
accept the quote for the installation.  
Mr J did accept the quote and duly paid for the installation of the boiler. Having reviewed the 
terms of the policy, I cant see that Aviva has been unreasonable by relying on the terms of 
the policy. It provided a quote, which was accepted. I understand that Mr J felt aggrieved 
because of the cost and his perception that the job was less complicated than he thought. 
But Aviva has explained that the price of the installation is fixed and not based on hours 
worked. In those circumstances, Im not satisfied that Aviva has treated Mr J unfairly. 
Mr J has also complained that Aviva should be more transparent in its pricing. If it was a 
fixed cost, then it should include that cost in the policy documents. Also, that he found other 
suppliers who were much cheaper. 
Whilst I have every sympathy for Mr Js position, ultimately just because cheaper installation 
costs may be available elsewhere, doesnt mean that Aviva hasnt been fair. If Mr J could 
find cheaper installation costs, together with the cost of a new boiler too, it was open to him 
to take this up.
Also, we as a service cant tell a business how it conducts itself nor its practices, procedures 
or services. That would be the regulators role. We can as Ive said before, look at whether 
Aviva were reasonable in its dealings with Mr J. 
Mr J has said that over the years when he was covered with Aviva, he had cause to call 
them out several times for various issues. Which Aviva attended to without any complaints 
from Mr J. So, I havent seen enough to suggest that Aviva didnt carry out its obligations 
during the life of the policy.Finally, Aviva has confirmed that it refunded part of the policy premiums that had not been 
reduced following the boiler element of cover being removed from Mr Js insurance. For this 
error, it refunded the appropriate amount as well as compensation of £25, for the trouble and 
upset it caused for failing to amend Mr Js premium. I have considered whether this is 
sufficient to put things right and I think it is. Aviva recognised the error and took steps to 
rectify this. So, there is nothing further that I can fairly ask it to do here.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied that Aviva did anything wrong. So, I cant 
reasonably ask Aviva to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that the £25 compensation for the 
trouble and upset that Aviva Insurance Limited paid is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman