DRN-1338629
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has continued to record that his mortgage was 
in arrears despite an agreement to restructure his mortgage. He also says that an 
overpayment he made to the mortgage has gone missing and the service he has received 
has been poor.
What happened
Mr A had a significant amount of arrears on his mortgage. He spoke to Barclays and it 
recommended that he should remortgage to clear the arrears balance along with extending 
the term of the mortgage switching interest rate. On 29 June 2019, Barclays issued a 
mortgage offer in line with that. 
Barclays later said the member of staff who spoke to Mr A had made an error and they didnt 
properly understand Mr As circumstances. It continued to treat the arrears balance as being 
separate from the mortgage balance. Barclays said a remortgage wasnt the right thing for 
Mr A. It encouraged him to give it details of his income and expenditure so it could explore 
what it could do to help him. Barclays offered Mr A £2,000 for the distress it caused by 
leading him to believe it had approved the application.
Mr A also said he made an overpayment of around £1,300. Barclays said it had applied it to 
the mortgage as a billing adjustment. But Mr A said he couldnt see it on his mortgage 
statement.
Mr A has complained that Barclays has gone back on its agreement and as a result it 
continues to record mortgage arrears on his credit file. He also wants it to find the 
overpayment that is missing. Mr A has complained about the service that Barclays has 
provided throughout this mater.
Our investigator said that Barclays should honour the mortgage offer it issued and amend Mr 
As credit file. She considered its offer of £2,000 was fair for the trouble and upset this matter 
had caused Mr A. 
Barclays didnt accept what the investigator said. It made a number of points, including:
It was only agreeing a term extension and rate switch.
In these circumstances it would only add the arrears to the mortgage balance a 
recalculate the payment if it was agreed by its arrears department as that was its 
policy.
Mr A had arrears statements before and after the extension  so he ought to have 
understood what was happening.
The application and offer are clear and correct.
The entire balance was quoted as that was the amount that was being switched to the 
new rate.
Just because arrears were not mentioned in a rate switch does not mean that they were 
included.
Mr A made a second application and this supports Mr A knew the first application was 
merely a rate switch and term extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2019 Barclays recommended that Mr A should extend the term of his mortgage, 
switch to a lower interest rate. Barclays says its intention was never to add the arrears 
balance to the mortgage  and Mr A would always have had to reach a separate agreement 
to clear the arrears.
Mr A has been clear and consistent that the mortgage was intended to repay the arrears. 
Barclays final response letter accepts that it gave Mr A the impression that the mortgage 
would clear his arrears. 
We also have a statement from the advisor that dealt with Mr A. They said that Mr As 
mortgage was switched to interest only when he experienced financial difficulty. After two 
years Mr A asked to be switched to repayment and for extra borrowing. That was declined. 
The adviser said that the mortgage was restructured over a longer term and lower interest 
rate  but the customer is still showing in arrears as it was a repayment mortgage during the 
period when it was, in fact interest only.
On 29 June 2019, Barclays issued a mortgage offer which stated that it had given him a loan 
of £319,438.41 with a term of 16 years on a repayment basis. The monthly payment was 
sufficient to repay the full mortgage balance, including the arrears, by the end of the term. I 
cant see that Mr A was given any information that once this arrangement began, he would 
be required to make a separate arrangement to clear the arrears. The full amount owed 
would be paid if he made the contractual monthly payment on time.
Barclays may have meant for the arrears to remain in place. But that is not what Mr A or 
Barclayss adviser understood. It also isnt reflected in any of the paperwork.
On balance, I consider it more likely than not that Mr A was led to believe that the 
remortgage would repay the arrears balance.
Bearing in mind what Mr A was told, he had no reason to doubt that the offer reflected what 
Barclays had recommended to him. If the arrears were not included, its not clear why the 
monthly payment would be enough to clear the full balance including the arrears. And 
Barclays has not been able to provide any evidence that it set out in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way what it now claims the agreement was intended to be.
Barclays position has changed. It is relying on the fact that Mr A received arrears 
statements before and after the remortgage and that he made another application in August. 
But the fact he received arrears statements before the remortgage makes no difference. And 
we can see Mr A was unhappy once he found out that the arrears had not been cleared as 
he believed. It seems clear that the second application was an attempt to resolve things 
rather than acceptance that the remortgage did not include the arrears.Barclays says that because Mr A was in arrears he would need to speak to its arrears 
department so it could explore his circumstances. But Mr A spoke to a Barclays mortgage 
adviser who gave Mr A full mortgage advice. I dont see how a mortgage recommendation to 
restructure the mortgage in this way would not be in Mr As interests. 
Barclays says that the income and expenditure assessment carried out by its arrears 
department is more in depth that when it gives mortgage advice. But it doesnt follow that the 
mortgage advice was wrong  and there is no dispute that the monthly payment would repay 
the mortgage balance in full by the end of the term and that it was affordable to Mr A at the 
time in question.
I am struggling t see how it would be fair for Barclays to go back on the offer it made to Mr A 
and as communicated to him by its own adviser  largely it seems so it can apply its own 
process rather than any genuine concerns about the affordability of the arrangement it 
agreed.
Even if I were to accept that Mr A remained in arrears - and bearing in mind that Barclays 
has an obligation to treat Mr A fairly and to tailor any concessions to his individual 
circumstances  I cant see how it would be fair for Barclays to require Mr A to go through 
that process now or that restructuring the mortgage again would be the right thing here. The 
mortgage will be paid in full if Mr A pays the contractual monthly payment, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for Barclays to require Mr A to pay more on top of this.
It is for Barclays to decide how to address any breakdown in communication between its 
departments. But that is nothing to do with Mr A  and it would be unfair for Barclays to go 
back on what it agreed with Mr A because of its own failings.
Mr A has complained that since the inception of the new mortgage he has made 
overpayments of about £1,300 that has gone missing. It may be that this is allocated 
correctly once the account is restructured if Mr A accepts my decision. In line with the 
investigators view, Barclays should send Mr A a full updated statement once it has 
corrected the account. It should also highlight or explain in a clear and accessible way what 
has happened to the overpayments. Mr A can raise a new complaint if that doesnt resolve 
things for him. I would urge Barclays to investigate any such complaint thoroughly and as a 
priority. I note that it hasnt really engaged with us on this part of the complaint. But I dont 
want to delay things any further.
Putting things right
I consider that Barclays should stand by the mortgage offer of 29 June 2019. Barclays 
should restructure the mortgage so that any arrears were cleared upon the inception of the 
new two year fixed rate  Barclays internal records and Mr As credit file should be amended 
to reflect that.
Barclays has offered Mr A £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him. I think that is fair to reflect the trouble that Mr A has experienced for almost two years 
as a result of this matter  including a lack of engagement from Barclays when dealing with 
this complaint, that has prolonged its resolution.
Mr A has asked for any overpayments he made to be left on the mortgage.
A lot has happened since Mr A referred the complaint to us. Barclays should review that any 
concessions or other help it could have offered Mr A hasnt been affected by the incorrect 
information it has recorded about him with credit reference agencies and its own systems. My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Restructure Mr As mortgage as if any arrears balance was added to the main balance of 
the mortgage and the arrears extinguished upon the inception of the mortgage set out in 
the mortgage offer dated 29 June 2019.
Amend Mr As credit file and any internal records in line with the above  so that any 
arrears were cleared upon inception of the new mortgage.
If it has not already done so, pay Mr A £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused to him.
Once the account has been restructured, send Mr A a revised mortgage statement, 
highlighting what happened to any overpayments along with an explanation of what 
happened to the overpayments. Barclays should recognise that Mr A isnt a mortgage 
expert so it should tailor its explanation accordingly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman