The complaint
Mr As complaint is about his execution only spread-bet account with CMC Spreadbet Plc 
(CMC). He has raised a number of matters arising from his trading in 2019. He says he lost 
over 32,000 Euros as a result of some of these matters. The matters are being addressed 
under two separate cases. In the present case Mr A says:
CMC manipulated spreads in his trades, especially from around 21:00 hours
onwards, causing him losses.
CMCs platform was defective on occasions  failing to apply stop loss settings and
account close-outs properly/precisely and preventing the opening and closing of
trades.
CMCs platform also allowed him to place  margin hungry and overleveraged trades
due to the ability to place hedged trades of bigger sizes than the originals  all using
the same leverage basis. This had the effect, after the original trade was closed, of
leaving a larger hedging trade that effectively exceeded leverage limits; and had the
effect of over using or exhausting margin and making close-outs significantly more
likely even with minimal price movement(s).
He incurred substantial financing charges in his trades.
What happened
CMC disputes the complaint. However, in recognition of Mr As value as a customer and as 
a gesture of goodwill in this respect it offered and paid him £5,000. 
Mr A accepts partial (around half) responsibility for his losses but he asserts that CMC is 
responsible for the other half (which he equates at 18,000 Euros) due to causing the matters 
he has complained about. In this context, he sought further payment from CMC  in addition 
to the £5,000 payment. CMC declined his request, affirming that it stands by its dispute of 
the merits of his complaint. In the main, CMC says:
It did not manipulate its spreads or prices. The spreads are dynamic, dependent on
factors like volatility and liquidity in the market. However, they also tend to be at the
same levels at different points in the day. It is true that the spreads widened from
around 21:00 hours, because market liquidity tends to decrease from this time 
including in the foreign exchange (FX) market. This had nothing to do with
manipulating the outcomes of Mr As trades and given that he was aware of this
occurrence/recurrence he was free to trade or not to trade during the relevant
periods. Account close-outs are based on mid prices, so those prices  not the
spreads  were relevant in this respect. The widening of the spreads did not directly
relate to the account close-outs Mr A has mentioned.
Its platform was/is not defective. It looked into the issues highlighted by Mr A but was
limited in doing so because he used a Virtual Private Network (VPN) to access the
platform and that prevented CMC from accessing session log information required to
DRN-1928733investigate further. It believes his use of the VPN could be the cause of the problems 
he mentioned and its complaint response urged him to consider stopping that use for 
this reason. Paragraph 7.3.3 of the terms of service he agreed confirms that CMC is 
not responsible for trading failures arising from the transfer of data over networks and 
facilities outside its control (like the VPN). In response to Mr As claims that stop 
losses and account close-outs were not executed precisely, its Order Execution 
Policy (OEP)  which forms part of the collective terms agreed for the account  
clarifies that neither is guaranteed to be executed precisely and can be subject to 
gapping and slippage. Mr A could have used guaranteed stop loss settings if he 
wished, but did not. 
The margin close-out setting for Mr As retail account was compliant with the rules 
issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). His account 
value/equity was required to be no less than 50% of total margin in the account, if it 
went below this level a close-out applied. Where Mr A complains about hedged 
trades that over used his margin and took his account closer to close-out levels (or 
triggered such levels), dependent on which trades were closed or left open, its 
platform gave warnings about this and he would have had the options to avoid such 
an occurrence depending on the trades he chose to close or leave open  or the 
option to add funds to the account in order to keep trades open. Mr As experience in 
this respect only happened because he chose not to enable netting in his account 
settings. Had he done so, what he has described would not have occurred and it 
suggested this to him in response to his complaint. 
The financing/holding costs/charges Mr A has mentioned did not correlate to the 
spread and margin changes he has complained about. They were charges expressly 
explained in the overall terms he agreed to in opening his account; and on its 
website.
Overall, its responses to the issues, evidence to support those responses and 
evidence of Mr As conduct in the matter  including his continuation of trading during 
the relevant period despite full awareness of the issues he has complained about and 
his continuation of trading since submission of his complaint  all combine to justify 
its dispute of the complaint and its refusal to be responsible for trading losses that Mr 
A incurred by his own actions.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He broadly agreed with CMCs position (and most of its points), but he noted that its 
platform appeared to have the flaw described by Mr A where closure of an original trade and 
retention of a larger hedging trade could mean leverage limits were essentially being 
breached. 
However, the investigator considered that Mr A knowingly and wilfully engaged in the 
relevant situations without enabling netting in his account and in full knowledge of the flaw; 
that whilst the flaw in the system is potentially a regulatory matter he was not satisfied that it 
makes CMC responsible for Mr As loss; and that it was Mr As wilful use of the flaw 
(despites its risks) that resulted in his loss.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. With regards to the problems that arose from his hedged 
trades he said the main point wasnt that he knowingly and wilfully used the flaw but that 
CMC should not have allowed him to do so. He said more should be done to hold CMC to 
account for the flaw and more should be done to probe further into the platform issues in 
order to verify CMCs claim that his VPN is to blame. The investigator was not persuaded to 
change his mind. He explained that Mr As wilful use of the flaw (and his attempts  albeit 
unsuccessful  to take advantage of it) could not be overlooked and that there is a lack of 
evidence that CMC caused the alleged platform issue or that anyone else experienced it.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and I do not uphold 
Mr As complaint.
I address the issues as follows:
I draw no inferences from CMCs goodwill payment to Mr A. I also note that there is 
previous history of other such payments to him. I do not consider any of them to be 
indicative of CMC accepting liability for any wrongdoing in the present complaint. The 
impression I have been presented with is that CMC considered the payments as 
measures to maintain good relations with Mr A and nothing more. Its dispute of the 
present complaint is reasonably vehement, which suggests that the £5,000 it paid Mr 
A was no more than a goodwill gesture.
No wrongdoing by CMC appears to have been established in relation to the 
financing/holding costs/charges issue. The terms agreed for Mr As account included 
references to provisions which explained these charges and I have not seen 
evidence that they were applied at rates or in a manner that conflicted with the 
agreed terms. They of course correlated to opening prices for the relevant trades but 
they do not appear to have been impacted by the changes in spreads or the margin 
related issue he has complained about.
On balance, I consider Mr As descriptions about the platform problems he says he 
faced (as summarised above) to be sincere. However, as the investigator explained, 
this service does not have the technical resources to investigate the matter to the 
extent that he wants. CMC has suggested that his VPN based access to the platform 
could be the problem. That could be possible and if it is the problem then the 
disclaiming term CMC has referred to will apply. For the purpose of this decision, the 
main point is that there is a lack of evidence to support Mr As allegation that the 
problem rests with CMC and its platform. Without evidence to show that, this part of 
the complaint cannot reasonably be upheld.
CMC is correct in highlighting notices within the relevant terms which explain that 
stop loss and close-outs are not guaranteed to execute at precise and/or 
predetermined levels and that they can be affected by gapping and slippage. I 
appreciate that Mr As argument is also about examples in which the gaps have been 
extraordinary (and unreasonably so), but I am not satisfied that this has been 
sufficiently established with evidence.
I have not seen evidence that spreads or prices were manipulated by CMC against   
Mr As trades. In the context of dynamic spreads, and with his awareness that such 
spreads applied, I do not consider that the changes in spreads ought to have 
surprised him. I do appreciate that his specific point  similar to his point about the 
price gaps/slippages  is that there were extraordinary spread changes which were 
indicative of manipulation. Available evidence is that CMCs platform was fully 
automated and that within its design was the ability to apply the relevant dynamic 
spreads dependent on factors such as volatility and liquidity at any time. This is not 
uncommon in the sector. The notion of a decrease in liquidity outside market hours  
such as after 21:00 hours  is also not implausible. Mr A would probably argue that 
the FX market  which is relevant to his trades and complaint  is an ongoing 
international market without after hours,  so to speak. However, that does not 
automatically mean a decrease in liquidity in the FX market around or after 21:00 
hours is implausible. The main point is that the dynamic spreads appear to have 
behaved as they were supposed to.I understand the case Mr A has presented with regards to the hedged positions, the
effect of closing the original trade and having a surviving hedging trade that uses
more margin (and takes the account closer to close-out) and his argument about
CMC taking or sharing responsibility for this and for the losses he incurred in this
respect. The investigator made a valid point  which I endorse  about Mr A wilfully
and knowingly using this situation. There is also the implication that he arguably
sought potential advantage from it.  It could be said that he would not have continued
to create the same situation (with the associated risks) if he did not seek such
potential advantage. Unfortunately, overall, he was unsuccessful in doing so.
CMCs position is that Mr As retail account was ESMA compliant at all relevant
times. This appears to have been the case in terms of the accounts margin close-out
setting (50%). The trading leverage flaw that the investigator identified appears to be
an issue. I am not quite satisfied that a definitive breach of ESMA in this respect has
been shown within the available evidence, so I agree with the investigators
suggestion that it is more of a potential matter for regulatory treatment. This service
does not have the remit to give such treatment. For the purpose of Mr As complaint
the main issue remains his wilful creation of the very situation(s) he has complained
about  with awareness of its effects. He did not enable netting in the account and he
does not appear to have taken the avoidance measures CMC referred to.  In this
context, I do not accept his assertion that CMC should share responsibility with him.
That does not strike me as a fair and reasonable outcome, given the same context. I
empathise with the losses he has made but I also consider that responsibility for
them remained/remains wholly his.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr A's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman