DRN-2912896
The complaint
Ms P complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
decision to decline cover for her horse insurance claim. 
Ms P has brought her complaint to this service with the help of a representative, who Ill refer 
to as Mr D.
What happened
Ms Ps horse was seen by a vet who recommended he be put to sleep. Ms P followed this 
recommendation and made a claim to Red Sands for vet fees and the death of her horse. 
Red Sands met the claim for vet fees but declined the claim for death of horse and 
disposal benefits. Red Sands said the vet had stated Ms Ps horse didnt meet the British 
Equine Veterinary Association (BEVA) guidelines for euthanasia. They referred to sections 
of the policy which they said meant the claims werent covered. Ms P complained and Red 
Sands stood by their decision to decline the claims on the basis the euthanasia of Ms Ps 
horse didnt meet the current BEVA guidelines.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P. He thought that Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining Ms Ps claim. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Ps horse insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions 
and, in the policy summary section, under the Death of Horse cover section, it says the 
policy doesnt cover Any claim for euthanasia of your horse if it does not meet the current 
BEVA guidelines for the destruction of horses.. There is then a section of the policy which 
goes into further detail about the Death of Horse from Injury or Illness cover. This sets out 
the following specific conditions:
2.2.3 You must tell us before the euthanasia of your horse is carried out, unless your vet 
believes there was no time as your horse needed immediate euthanasia.
2.2.4 The euthanasia of your horse must meet the current British Equine Veterinary 
Association (BEVA) Guidelines for the Destruction of Horses Under an All Risks of 
Mortality [ARM] Insurance Policy (1996).
There is a further section which says, Any claim where the cause of death, or reason for 
euthanasia of your horse is excluded under section 2 Death of Horse., is excluded from 
cover. 
Red Sands have declined Ms Ps claim for the loss of her horse on the grounds that the 
euthanasia didnt meet BEVA guidelines and another option of treatment was available. So, 
Ive looked to see whether Red Sands decision is fair and reasonable.   
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost 
care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. I can see Red Sands have 
reviewed the clinical records - I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Red 
Sands to rely on these notes as being a true, accurate and contemporaneous representation 
of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. Theres a note from the vet 
following an examination of Ms Ps horse. The notes say No consistent forelimb lameness 
developed on repeated examination. Should a mild or severe forelimb lameness again 
become evident then further investigations will be warranted. This could include performing 
diagnostic analgesia, further radiographs, ultrasonography or nuclear scintigraphy (bone 
scan). 
A further examination takes place a week later and the notes for this say Ms Ps horse 
has a history of a severe but episodic right fore limb lameness and ataxia. The episodes 
are not predictable and the severity of the signs are significant. The safety of any horse and 
the safe handling of any horse showing signs of ataxia are paramount. This is even more 
difficult when the signs are episodic, as in [Ms Ps horses] case. The vet says there is 
evidence of osteoarthritis but other evidence suggests this isnt the sole cause of the 
problem. The vet suspects there is intermittent compression of the spinal cord and spinal 
nerve outflow that is caused by soft tissue. The vet says Medication of the caudal articular 
process joints with corticosteroids could be performed but there would be no certainty that 
an acute ataxic episode would not recur and the recurrence would be unpredictable. A 
Computed Tomography (CT) examination (performed under a general anaesthetic) 
combined with a myelogram could potentially provide further details regarding the exact 
cause of the problem. The vet concludes by saying Given, the clinical signs that are 
present combined with the question over [Ms Ps horses] own safety and his handlers, I 
have recommended that he is put to sleep. 
I can see from a report prepared by the vet, they say Ms Ps horse was humanely 
euthanased today. This does not fulfil the BEVA guidelines. A claim form is then later 
submitted to Red Sands. Under a question which asks what condition is being claimed for, it 
says death and vets fees. The next question asks what symptoms did Ms Ps horse show 
for this condition, and the response says Ataxia and Lameness. There is then a section 
which has been completed by the vet. The vet has ticked the box to say Ms Ps horse was 
euthanased and beside a question which asks Did the horses condition meet the BEVA 
guidelines for immediate destruction?, the vet has ticked No. 
Paragraph 3 of the BEVA guidelines 1996 say that an affected horse will need to meet the 
following requirements to satisfy a claim under an ARM policy: That the insured horse 
sustains an injury or manifests an illness or disease that is so severe as to warrant 
immediate destruction to relieve incurable and excessive pain and that no other options of 
treatment are available to that horse at that time.
Taking this all into account, I cant say Red Sands have acted unreasonably. The vet has 
noted on two occasions that BEVA guidelines were not met. And, on both occasions this 
assessment of whether BEVA guidelines had been met was made by the vet who examined 
Ms Ps horse, so I think its reasonable to place more weight on the information provided by 
them. 
The clinical notes show the symptoms which Ms Ps horse was showing for the condition 
were severe but intermittent. And, the clinical notes do suggest another option of treatment 
in the form of corticosteroids. I accept the vet says there would be no certainty this treatment 
would prevent any recurrence of ataxia, but the fact remains there was an option of treatment available at that time. And, its clear the vet feels this was an option in the 
circumstances as they confirmed in their report that BEVA guidelines werent met. 
I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge, so 
when considering such complaints, one of the factors I take into account is what the clinical 
notes show. And, in view of the clinical notes and the vets opinion, I dont think Red Sands 
have acted unfairly in declining the claim.
  
I note Mr D says Red Sands offered little assistance to Ms P when she phoned them prior to 
her horses euthanasia. He says they didnt advise Ms P on the course of action to take. Ive 
listened to calls made by Ms P to Red Sands and note Ms P explains to Red Sands that she 
had forwarded a vets report for review. Ms P explains her horse isnt in any discomfort at 
this moment in time but the vet is of the opinion the horses condition makes him a danger to 
himself and others. Ms P explains the vets opinion is that her horse should be put to sleep 
but not to make a decision on this until Red Sands have confirmed and agreed to this. Red 
Sands explain the process in making a claim under the Death of Horse cover is something 
they can review but they would need a report from the vet to confirm the euthanasia meets 
the BEVA guidelines. Red Sands explain they cant give any pre-authorisation for a claim 
under the Death of Horse cover - they can only consider the claim after the horse is 
euthanased. Red Sands again explain they would need a report from a vet that the 
euthanasia meets the BEVA guidelines. 
Ms P explains the vet hasnt been able to completely identify the cause of the condition and 
there was the option of further investigation in the form of a CT scan. Ms P explains the vet 
is of the opinion though that they would still be in the same position in that her horse would 
still have ataxia. Ms P explains the vet is of the opinion the CT scan would involve a further 
procedure, and one which might provide a more definitive diagnosis, but the outcome would 
still be the same. Ms P says the vet questions whether Red Sands require a more definitive 
diagnosis even though the outcome would be the same. Red Sands explain they cant give 
an answer to this but its for the vet to determine whether the euthanasia meets the BEVA 
guidelines so they recommend Ms P speak with the vet. 
Ms P phones again a couple of days later and explains her horse needs to be euthanased 
but she believes it doesnt meet the BEVA guidelines as her horse isnt showing signs of 
ataxia permanently. She explains she still wishes to submit a mortality claim. The call 
handler explains they can review the claim but the euthanasia needs to meet the BEVA 
guidelines.    
I do acknowledge that Ms P has been in touch with Red Sands to keep them updated on the 
position and the options which are available to her. I note Mr D feels Ms P didnt receive any 
advice from Red Sands on whether they would meet or provide any assistance with the 
costs associated with a further scan or treatment. Mr D also feels Red Sands didnt advise 
on the possible liabilities arising from a potentially dangerous horse, particularly as this was 
not the vet's recommended action, in view of the unpredictable nature of the ataxia. I do 
appreciate such decisions on a course of action are difficult and customers will look for some 
guidance and assistance to help them make a decision. I dont however agree there has 
been an error here by Red Sands. Their role is non-advisory and therefore theyre unable to 
provide advice or make recommendations. I think its reasonable for Red Sands to point out 
the relevant sections which apply to Ms Ps horses circumstances  and thats what they did 
when Ms P called them. They explained the euthanasia must meet the BEVA guidelines. 
In addition to this, I can see Mr D has sent us an extract from the BEVA guidelines and this 
says no insurer will confirm a decision to pay a death claim until full details of the claim, 
including the clinical history have been disclosed, received, and assessed. So, I think Red 
Sands have acted reasonably here by referring to the relevant sections of the policy to help 
Ms P make an informed decision.   I can see Mr D refers to sections 2.2.3 and 2.2.4 of the policy and feels Ms P has met these 
conditions. I agree condition 2.2.3 has been met as Ms P did tell Red Sands before the 
euthanasia of her horse was carried out. And, the extract of the BEVA guidelines provided 
by Mr D says for non-emergency situations, an insurer should be contacted to give their prior 
agreement or to allow a second opinion to be given. Mr D feels BEVA guidelines have been 
met as Ms Ps horse didnt require immediate destruction and Red Sands were notified prior 
to the euthanasia being carried out. I dont disagree with Mr D about this being a case where 
immediate destruction wasnt warranted. So, I take on board his comment about why the vet 
ticked No on the claim from covering this question. I dont however agree that notification to 
insurers alone meets BEVA guidelines in cases where immediate destruction isnt 
warranted. To reach this view, Ive considered a document called A Guide to Best Practice 
for Veterinary Surgeons When Considering Euthanasia on Humane Grounds: Where Horses 
are Insured Under an All Risks of Mortality Insurance Policy. I find this particularly 
persuasive as its been devised by BEVA and has been developed as a reference for the 
practicing veterinary surgeon as an aid in the decision-making process, when dealing with 
severely diseased or injured insured horses. This was in response to a perceived need for 
enhanced clarity and understanding of the whole process.      
This covers definite grounds for immediate euthanasia and less urgent cases. And, for the 
reasons I have explained, I think Ms Ps horse falls into the latter. In these cases, the 
guidance says where the horses condition is deteriorating to the point at which euthanasia 
will be required, it is essential to keep insurers informed of the situation. Such cases may 
require a second opinion on behalf of the insurers before the euthanasia is undertaken. The 
guidance goes further to say there are difficulties when considering chronic injury or disease 
cases with negligible prospect of recovery. Additional evidence will need to be provided for a 
claim to be considered, either of significant pain/suffering as demonstrated, for example, by 
chronic severe permanent lameness particularly affecting more than one limb, where there is 
other evidence of significant suffering e.g. prolonged periods of recumbency. And, there is 
no recognised alternative treatment available and it is not possible to alleviate clinical signs 
of pain by standard doses of routine analgesics  
I dont think Ms Ps claim meets the criteria above  and I say this for two reasons. Firstly, 
the clinical notes dont suggest Ms Ps horses symptoms were permanent or that he was in 
significant pain. The vet notes the symptoms were intermittent and, during a phone call with 
Red Sands two days before her horse is euthanased, Ms P tells them that her horse wasnt 
in any discomfort. Secondly, the clinical notes show there were alternative options available 
 this included a CT scan and corticosteroids. I do however acknowledge that the vet says 
theres no certainty that an episode of ataxia wouldnt recur. I can see the vet provided 
further clarity on this and says the corticosteroids treatment is likely to have provided only a 
short-term improvement, if any improvement was produced at all. While I have taken this into 
account, the fact remains the vet did still present an alternative treatment option. And, when 
combined with the option of a further diagnosis in the form of a CT scan which mightve 
produced a more definitive diagnosis, I cant say Red Sands have acted unreasonably in 
taking the view there were alternative options available. I note Mr D says the use of steroids 
was a suggestion to limit the pain of the symptoms in an attempt to minimise the possibility 
of further ataxic episodes. I take this on board but, in applying the guidance I have referred 
to above, this does still provide an option to alleviate clinical signs of pain. 
So, from the information available to me, I cant see Ms P sought a second opinion or 
proceeded with the option of further diagnosis or treatment. It therefore follows that I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Red Sands to take the view that Ms Ps horses euthanasia 
didnt meet BEVA guidelines.       I acknowledge Ms Ps vet said the treatment was unlikely to produce a long-term 
improvement and made a recommendation of euthanasia based on the clinical signs and the 
safety of Ms Ps horse and his handlers. And I know that Ms P says she made the decision 
to have her horse euthanised as she considered it was in her horses best interests. I 
understand why Ms Ps horses welfare would have been Ms Ps priority but that doesnt 
mean the insurer is required to pay the claim.
Ms P has my sympathy as I can see from her correspondence and phone calls with Red 
Sands this has been a very upsetting event for her. My role is to decide whether Red Sands 
have acted fairly and reasonably. And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I 
dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman