DRN-3044899
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Lloyds Bank Plc processed a foreign cheque that she paid into 
her account.
 
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs S received a cheque for over 86000 Euros following the disposal of her 
late fathers estate. She contacted Lloyds, who she holds an account with, as she wanted to 
pay in the cheque there. She made enquiries via telephone banking as to the time scales in 
relation to the cheque clearing process and whether any charges would be deducted.
Mrs S said she was informed that the cheque would clear within 3 to 5 working days. She 
said she wasnt told what exchange rate Lloyds would use but was told there wouldnt be 
any charges deducted from the cheque balance. 
On 14 July 2020, Mrs S attended her branch in order to pay in her cheque. She said 3 
different members of staff dealt with her. They contacted the international team as they didnt 
seem to know what the process was for cashing a large international cheque. Lloyds said a 
form was completed, and a referral was made to a specialist team to gain approval to 
process the cheque given its large value. The cheque was sent to this team the same day.
The specialist team informed Lloyds that it would require proof of entitlement of funds from 
Mrs S. The cheque was returned to the branch pending documentary evidence being 
provided by Mrs S. This was communicated with Mrs S.
On 20 July 2020, Mrs S attended her branch with a solicitors letter confirming that the 
cheque was the proceeds of her late fathers estate. Lloyds accepted this document as proof 
of entitlement of funds and contacted the specialist team again to re-request approval. 
Lloyds said it explained to Mrs S it could only process the cheque on a collection basis due 
to its large value and, following this explanation, the cheque was sent to the specialist team 
for processing on a collection basis.   
Lloyds said that the cheque was sent by the specialist team to a third party on a collection 
basis on 22 July 2020. Lloyds said it received the funds from the cheque on 30 July 2020 
and credited Mrs S with that sum immediately on receipt. No deductions were made from the 
amount received.
When the cheque cleared, and the money was credited to Mrs S account, it was less than 
she expected by around £2000. Being dissatisfied with this, Mrs S complained to Lloyds 
about how it had dealt with her cheque. She said she hadnt been given sufficient 
information about the cheque clearing process, which she thought was because branch staff 
had been unfamiliar with what happened to foreign cheques. And she said that if shed 
known how much she would have received, shed have deposited her cheque elsewhere.
When Lloyds responded to Mrs S complaint it acknowledged there had been shortfalls in the 
service she had received and apologised for that. And it explained that it had paid Mrs S £75 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience this had caused. But it didnt uphold her 
complaint about how long shed had to wait for the cheque to clear. It explained that the 
cheque had been sent for collection, which can lead to delays in the funds being available. 
And it stated that the funds had credited Mrs S account on 30 July 2020, which was the date 
the money was received, in the sum of almost £76800. It said it hadnt deducted a fee for 
depositing the cheque and had applied an exchange rate of 1.12879, which was the 
prevailing rate at the time the cheque was converted. So, it didnt think it had made an error.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds had dealt with her complaint, Mrs S referred it to our 
service. Our investigator weighed up the information provided by Mrs S and Lloyds but they 
didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong in how it had processed Mrs S cheque. And they werent persuaded Lloyds 
needed to do anything more as they thought it had dealt with Mrs S complaint fairly and had 
paid a fair amount of compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused by any 
shortfalls in the service experienced. But Mrs S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive not mentioned all of the issues raised by Mrs S in representations made 
to this service. I dont intend any discourtesy by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our 
service. Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. I can assure Mrs S and Lloyds 
that Ive read everything that theyve provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not 
because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs S experienced here. I understand that shes 
frustrated by way in which Lloyds processed her cheque and the exchange rate it applied. 
But Im not persuaded to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Cheques drawn on an overseas bank dont follow the usual UK cheque clearing process. 
When presented with a foreign cheque, a UK bank will decide whether its prepared to 
accept the cheque by negotiation or collection. I can see that Lloyds explained the difference 
on the form it gave Mrs S, but Ill summarise the position here.
A negotiated cheque is one on which the bank gives value for the cheque funds on the 
assumption it will clear. While that gives certainty about the exchange rate that will apply, it 
presents a potential risk to both the bank and the customer, in the event the cheque is 
returned unpaid. Where the cheque is a relatively high value (as here), a bank may therefore 
be unwilling to accept a cheque for negotiation. 
Cheques accepted for collection, on the other hand, offer certainty of payment but no 
certainty as to the exchange rate. That rates established when cheque is paid, rather than 
when its received.
The decision on whether to accept a cheque for negotiation is one for the bank to take. Its 
effectively providing an advance to the customer, and so the decision takes into account the 
risk of receiving payment in the event the cheque is returned unpaid. Its not for me to 
interfere with the banks decision on the level of risk its prepared to accept; in these 
circumstances I think its for the bank to decide this for itself. However, it does mean its 
therefore important that a bank makes its customer aware of the basis on which its 
accepting a foreign cheque because this will inform the customers decision about how they 
proceed, and the risks being accepted.How did Lloyds make Mrs S aware it was collecting, rather than negotiating, the cheque?
Lloyds said the branch manager dealt with Mrs S on 20 July 2020 and recalls serving her. 
They remember explaining that the cheque would have to be processed on a collection basis 
and, following this explanation, Mrs S agreed for her cheque to be dealt with in this way. I 
dont have any reason to doubt what Lloyds has said here as I think it plausible that this 
transaction was memorable for the branch manager given the large value of the cheque and 
the complexities surrounding how it could be processed.
I can see that Mrs S has told our investigator that she accepts the evidence from Lloyds that 
she agreed for her cheque to be processed on a collection basis on 20 July 2020. So, Im 
satisfied that she or ought to have reasonably known that Lloyds wouldnt be able to 
negotiate her cheque. Im satisfied that, at this point, it was known that Lloyds was only able 
to proceed by collecting the cheque. 
Mrs S has stated she didnt understand what collecting a cheque involved. So, Ive 
considered whether adequate information was provided to her about the negotiation and 
collection process.
Ive seen evidence that satisfies me that the processes for negotiating and collecting 
cheques are outlined clearly in the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs S account. Ive 
already mentioned that Mrs S signed the form that was completed in branch on 14 July 
2020. This form relates to the cheque collection and negotiation process and I can see that 
Mrs S has indicated on the form that she had read and understood the terms and conditions 
that applied to the transaction she wanted to make. 
The form that Mrs S signed sets out the difference between negotiation and collection in 
detail on page 4 stating for collection:
We will credit your account after we receive payment from the bank the cheque is drawn on. 
We will do this when the cheque is drawn on a country where there are local payment 
restrictions, when the cheque is for a high value, or in certain other cases. We will tell you if 
we need to do this.
I cant reasonably say Lloyds ought to have provided information over and above the 
information contained in the form Mrs S signed. If shed been unsure of the information shed 
read in the terms and conditions she could have requested clarification from Lloyds prior 
leaving her cheque with the branch.
Im satisfied, overall, that when Mrs S left the branch on 20 July 2020, she had the option of 
making alternative arrangements for her cheque to be processed elsewhere in the event that 
she didnt want to proceed by way of collection . In not doing so, I think Mrs S made an 
informed choice and deliberate decision to proceed on a collection basis. So, I cant fairly 
find that Lloyds didnt make Mrs S aware it would collect this cheque or what that process 
would involve.
Were there any delays in the way that Lloyds dealt with Mrs S cheque?
Having carefully considered the chronology set out by Lloyds and Mrs S, I cant fairly 
conclude that there were delays involved in how the cheque was dealt with. Ill explain why.
When Mrs S attended her branch on 14 July 2020 she presented the cheque to Lloyds. 
However, it couldnt be processed at this stage because proof of entitlement of funds was 
required and this wasnt provided until a later date.Im satisfied that Lloyds properly sought advice by way of a referral to the specialist team on 
14 July 2020. So, there were no delays there. It was only following that referral that Lloyds 
became aware that Mrs S would need to provide documentary evidence that she was 
entitled to the proceeds from the cheque. Im persuaded that this was communicated with 
Mrs S in a timely manner because she returned to Lloyds with the required evidence on 20 
July 2020.
Im satisfied that during this second visit, Lloyds proactively sent the cheque, with a new 
referral, to the specialist team. Again, I havent seen any evidence of delay. I dont think two 
days is an unreasonable time period for the cheque to reach this department from the date 
Mrs S attended the branch.
Mrs S is unhappy that she was unaware of the time it would take from providing her cheque 
to Lloyds on 20 July 2020 and the funds crediting her account. But Lloyds has explained that 
cheques that go for collection dont have a set time scale. So, it wasnt possible to provide a 
time scale because the time is dependent upon how quickly a third party is able to process a 
cheque. 
I can see Lloyds wrote to Mrs S on 22 July 2020, acknowledging receipt of her cheque and 
explaining that it can take several weeks to receive proceeds from foreign banks, typically 
six to eight weeks where a cheque is sent for collection. I think that was an attempt to 
manage Mrs S expectations based on Lloyds experience of past delay and I cant say this 
was unfair or unreasonable.
I appreciate that it took 8 days from the date the cheque was sent to the third party bank to 
the date the funds were received. But this was far quicker than the timescale Lloyds had 
anticipated and made Mrs S aware of. I think 8 days is reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive already explained, collecting a cheque can involve 
additional time in receiving the funds. And Lloyds cant, of course, pay the funds into a 
customers account until theyve been received  as is made clear on the form Mrs S signed. 
It isnt unusual for a bank to have to wait around a week until cleared funds are received 
from a third party bank in circumstances where a large international cheque has been 
processed on a collection basis. This is set out in the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs 
S account, which state:
Collecting  we will pay the amount of the cheque into your account when we receive 
payment from the paying bank. The time this takes can vary depending on the paying bank 
or its country as we will send the cheque to them. We may use an agent to do this.
So, I cant say Lloyds hadnt made Mrs S aware that collecting a cheque may involve delays 
and the involvement of third party banks. 
The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Lloyds transferred the funds it received from the 
third party to Mrs S on the date they were received. So, there were no delays in the money 
crediting Mrs S account once Lloyds received the funds.
Was the exchange rate Lloyds applied to the cheque unfair?
Lloyds has explained that because cheques that go for collection dont have a set time scale 
it cant tell a customer what exchange rate it will apply. This is because the exchange rate 
can change daily and so this is determined at the time the funds are electronically received 
after the cheque has cleared at the issuing bank. The exchange rate used will therefore depend on the rate on the day the payment is made or cleared, which can differ from the 
rate at the time of the deposit.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mrs S account outline in unambiguous and intelligible 
terms how Lloyds will convert funds it receives following the collection of a cheque. They 
state:
Collecting  we will pay the amount of the cheque into your account when we receive 
payment from the paying bank. The time this takes can vary depending on the paying bank 
or its country as we will send the cheque to them. We may use an agent to do this. When we 
receive payment from the paying bank, we will convert it to pounds, if applicable, using our 
standard exchange rate for the payment.
This was also confirmed by a letter Lloyds sent to Mrs S on 22 July 2020, which stated:
When we receive proceeds we will credit your account Any exchange rates used will be 
those of the day we receive proceeds.
Im satisfied there was legitimate reason why Lloyds couldnt tell Mrs S what exchange rate it 
would use to convert her cheque. It couldnt have predicted when the cheque would clear or 
the rate it would apply on a future date. I think Lloyds gave Mrs S enough information overall 
about its foreign cheque collection process to help her understand that the exchange rate 
wasnt known at the point she asked the bank to collect on her behalf. I think it also provided 
information that explained how it would apply the exchange rate to the funds once theyd 
been received.
Mrs S chose to proceed with cheque collection knowing all this information. And I think that, 
when she made that choice, she ought reasonably to have known that the exchange rate 
would be determined some time after she presented her cheque to Lloyds and after it had 
received the funds from the foreign bank. 
In considering whether the exchange rate was fairly applied, Ive seen evidence showing that 
the funds from Mrs S cheque were received from the third party bank on 30 July 2020. And, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded Lloyds applied its standard exchange rate 
for that day in line with the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs S account. 
I appreciate that Mrs S has provided our service with examples of historic more preferable 
exchange rates that were available at the time. But Im satisfied that, in applying its standard 
exchange rate for 30 July 2020, Lloyds used the correct exchange rate when converting the 
funds it received from the third party bank to sterling so that it could credit Mrs S account. 
While I can understand Mrs S frustration, Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong. 
Were there shortcomings in the service Mrs S received?
Mrs S has told our service that there was confusion amongst branch staff regarding the 
process for clearing a foreign cheque and that this led to a lack of clarity in the information 
she was given. In its final response to Mrs S complaint, Lloyds accepted that information 
about the cheque clearing process could have been presented more clearly at times.
I appreciate that Mrs S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But Im satisfied that the £75 Lloyds has already 
paid Mrs S is fair to compensate her for the worry and trouble she would have been caused 
by any shortcomings in service here. Its in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anymore here.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman