DRN-2614184
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr R took out two loans with Lending Stream  one in March 2013 and one in May 2013. 
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 15/03/2013 18/05/2013 £350.00
2 18/05/2013 07/06/2013 £1,015.00
Mr R has explained that at the time of the loans he had several other outstanding debts, 
including other short term loans, credit cards, and other loans. And he had a serious 
gambling addiction and had to declare himself bankrupt in 2018. 
Mr R says that had adequate affordability checks taken place, Lending Stream would have 
realised the level of his indebtedness and seen that he had needed to rollover a payment on 
another loan before applying to it. He says adequate checks would have shown that lending 
to him wasnt sustainably affordable. 
Lending Stream said that before providing the loans it asked Mr R if he was working and 
confirmed his monthly income. It also asked about Mr Rs expenses including his housing 
costs, utility bills, food and travel and these were checked against an independent source. It 
also asked about Mr Rs other outstanding credit commitments and says it checked the 
information provided with a credit reference agency. Lending Stream says that having 
considered Mr Rs income and expenses the loans were affordable for Mr R and so it didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that based on the number and size 
of the loans and the period for which Mr R was borrowing the checks carried out were 
proportionate and that further verification wasnt needed.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think the view of proportionate checks in 
the early stages of a leading relationship was fair as he said the checks didnt protect 
consumers who had issues with mental health or addiction (such as gambling). He also 
didnt think the checks captured underlying lending where consumers were taking on new 
debt to pay existing debt. He said that the credit checks carried out werent adequate and 
more thorough checks were needed to establish an individuals financial circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. At that time the loans were provided the relevant guidance was provided by the 
Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the need to make a reasonable assessment of 
whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to 
issues such as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout 
the life of the agreement and without having to realise security or assets. It then further sets 
out that without undue difficulty means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R raised his complaint with this service in July 2020. This was more than six years after 
the loans were provided. However, Mr R has explained he raised his complaint when he 
became aware of his cause for complaint and so the merits of this complaint have been 
considered.
Lending Stream provided the first loan to Mr R in March 2013. The loan was for £350 
repayable over six monthly instalments with the highest repayment amount being £175. At 
the time of the loan Mr R provided information saying that he was working full time with a 
monthly income of £3,800 and monthly expenses of £2,200. A credit check was also carried 
out. Mr R has said that had adequate checks been carried out, Lending Stream would have 
seen he had several other outstanding debts at the time. I understand the point Mr R has 
made and his views that the checks werent sufficient. When the loans were provided there 
was a requirement on Lending Stream to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether the repayments were sustainably affordable. The checks werent specifically prescribed, and 
Lending Stream wasnt, for example, required to request copies of bank statements or 
similar details. Therefore, I have considered whether the checks Lending Stream undertook 
at this time were adequate and in line with the requirements. As this was Mr Rs first loan, I 
find that the income and credit checks carried out were proportionate and in line with what 
we would expect to be undertaken at this time. So, while I appreciate Mr Rs comments, I do 
not find I can say Lending Stream was required to carry out any further checks and as the 
information it gathered didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not think I 
can say the loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr R repaid the first loan early and then took out a larger loan on the same day. I understand 
the comments Mr R has made about taking out new borrowing to repay existing debt and the 
need for this to be captured in the checks. I appreciate the point he has made and had he 
continued to repay loans and borrow shortly after this should have raised concerns and I 
would have expected further investigation to have taken place to ensure Mr R wasnt 
persistently reliant on short term lending. However, in this case Mr R had only been 
borrowing from Lending Stream for around two months by the time of the second loan and, 
as set out above, I think at this stage in the relationship, and given the first loan was repaid, 
the checks of Mr Rs income and expenses and the credit check were adequate and in line 
with what would be expected. 
The application for the second loan shows Mr Rs monthly income as £3,800 and his 
monthly expenditure as £2,000. The highest scheduled monthly repayment was around £510 
and so based on the information available I do not think it unreasonable that Lending Stream 
considered the loan affordable.
I understand the issues Mr R has raised about the checks not identifying his underlying 
indebtedness and his gambling and I am sorry to hear of the health issues Mr R has 
experienced. However, as I have set out, Lending Stream was required to carry out 
reasonable checks and so I have considered whether I think this has happened. As Mr R 
only took out two loans with Lending Stream and these were repaid in a relatively short 
period of time (and before the scheduled repayments dates), I find that the checks carried 
out to establish Mr Rs income and expenses were reasonable and in line with what we 
would expect to take place at this time. 
While I understand the points Mr R has made and appreciate the distress he has been 
caused, as the checks didnt raise concerns about Mr Rs ability to repay the loans, I do not 
find in this case I can say the loans were irresponsibly lent and so I do not uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman