DRN-3108351
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the transfer of her ISA from Financial Administration Services 
Limited, referred to as the business or the transferor to a third-party provider referred to 
as the transferee.  
Mrs C is being assisted by her husband.
What happened
On 9 April 2021, Mrs C instructed the transferee, to transfer her ISA in-specie. In other 
words, to transfer her ISA holdings away from the business to a new provider. 
On the same day, in response to a request from the transferee, the business provided a 
valuation of Mrs Cs holdings. The business then waited to hear back from the transferee 
and couldnt progress matters until it had done so.   
On 5 May 2021, Mrs C contacted the business through secure message in order to make a 
complaint. In summary, she said the business had ignored her transfer request and taken no 
action: 
I wish to make a formal complaint against Fidelity (the business) regarding lack of service 
and action on my request to transfer my ISA to the transferee (name anonymised). This has 
been outstanding for a month, Fidelity have ignored the request for transfer, taken no action, 
and provided no information.. 
I note the business responded on 6 May 2021 to say that it was looking to raise a complaint 
on behalf of Mrs C. 
On 7 May 2021, Mrs C placed a sell instruction on her iShares III Plc S&P Small Cap 600 
UCITS ETF USD shares. The same day she contacted the transferees customer service 
team and expressed dissatisfaction that it hadnt actioned her request despite having the 
valuation. I note Mrs C subsequently cancelled her request, but that was only communicated 
to the transferee, and its not clear exactly when this was.   
On 8 May 2021, the business raised a formal complaint and messaged Mrs C by secure 
message. On 11 May 2021, she placed another sell instruction, this time on her Frontier 
Developments Pic GBP0.005 shares held within the ISA.    
On 12 May 2021, the transferee sent the business its acceptance of the valuation. But by 
this stage, because Mrs C had placed sell orders on her account, the assets listed for the 
transfer didnt match the assets held. 
Later the same day, the transferee contacted the business again, this time asking it to reject 
its acceptance of the valuation. I note the transferee said: as the customer now wished to 
cancel the transfer. So, in due course, on 14 May 2021, the business rejected the transfer 
request, in response to the latest instructions from the transferee. At this point the business 
wasnt obliged to do anymore, and couldnt in regard to the transfer, without further 
instructions.  
In the meantime, I note on 2 June 2021 the business rang Mrs C to notify her that it was 
escalating her complaint. On 21 June 2021, Mrs C unhappy with the lack of appropriate 
response from the business and asked it to escalate her complaint to someone senior. 
On 24 June 2021, the business received another transfer request, presumably in response 
to Mrs Cs new/renewed instructions. The business responded the same day by providing 
the valuation, as it had done on the previous occasion when it was asked to.  
On 25 June 2021, in response to her complaint, the business wrote to Mrs C to say that it 
wasnt in a position to offer a final response but provided her with referral rights to our 
service. 
I note that since the valuation it sent to the transferee on 24 June 2021, the business has 
heard nothing further from the transferee. I note the business says although it couldve done 
more to chase the transferee, as the receiving party, the transferee had the overall 
responsibility to manage and chase the transfer. 
In due course, it seems Mrs C asked the transferee to cancel the request. In a response to 
the business dated 2 September 2021, the transferee confirmed that it cancelled the request 
as per her instructions. 
I note on 7 July 2021, Mrs C complained again because she hadnt received a response to 
her original complaint, and on 13 July 2021, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Although since then theres been correspondence between Mrs C and the business  on 27 
August 2021, she was contacted by senior personnel, and on 8 September 2021, she 
received a formal reply following an investigation.  
The business doesnt accept that its responsible for the delays. However, its accepts that its 
communication with Mrs C has not been of the standard it would accept. In recognition of 
this, it offered her £100 compensation.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He cant see that the business has done anything substantially wrong. 
On 9 April 2021, after the business supplied a valuation  in response to a request by 
the transferee  it couldnt progress matters until it had heard back from the 
transferee, either accepting or rejecting the valuation. 
Given the timeline of events, the business responded promptly to requests, in order 
to progress matters without delay. Hes seen nothing to persuade him that its 
behaviour has caused delays.   
Although Mrs C has expressed concern that both businesses (the transferee and the 
transferor) are holding her assets, in light of the screenshot  of the statement dated 
3 September 2021  provided by the business, the business cant comment further. 
If the transferee is still saying/showing as holding some of Mrs Cs assets its 
something she may need speak to the transferee about. 
For the poor handling of her complaint the business has offered £100 compensation 
which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, she said:The investigators view and investigation of this complaint is partial and flawed.  
Whilst the business and investigator seem to acknowledge the distress caused to her 
(a disabled senior citizen) by the mismanagement of her ISA transfer, this wasnt 
reflected in the investigators view. 
The investigator tried to dissuade her from taking legal advice, although she thinks 
this is the only remedy left open to her now. 
The investigator hasnt challenged the findings from the business. 
Granted, the screenshot dated 3 September 2021 from the business implies the 
restitution of the ISA has been fully made, even though she has no means of 
verifying the precise details or valuations. 
Over and above the delayed transfer  where responsibility is disputed by both the 
transferee and the business  theres the movement of these shares between the 
parties. She wanted a solution to this problem, but one wasnt given. 
Some investments appeared with the transferee and others with the business  they 
were shunted from one provider to another and back again. The situation was 
reversed some weeks later. 
At times, investments appeared on both platforms at the same time and differed in 
valuation. This is much more than poor service admitted by the business. 
Management of the investments  for a period of five months  was unfeasible. 
The business has been less than transparent. It failed to investigate the complaint 
properly. Although it acknowledged the complaint, it still failed to resolve it within the 
eight-week period. 
The undated letter supplied by the investigator (from the business) states that the 
business made no mistake and implies that sales of the stocks had been necessary 
after theyd sent details to the transferee.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the business has behaved 
unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry to hear that shes 
been experiencing poor health. 
Mrs Cs provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope that she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note on 9 April 2021, the business provided the transferee with a valuation of Mrs Cs 
holdings, on the very same day it was requested to do so. In the circumstances I dont think 
the business couldve done any more without hearing back from the transferee. In other 
words, the business couldnt progress the transfer until it heard back from the transferee, 
either accepting or rejecting the valuation. 
I understand the transferee responded on 12 May 2021, initially accepting the valuation 
which gave the business the greenlight to go ahead with the transfer. I cant say the 
business has done anything wrong by then endeavouring to transfer Mrs Cs holdings, in line 
with its instructions at the time.  
I note, later the same day, the transferee issued different instructions asking the business to 
cancel its earlier acceptance of the valuation. Its possible that the business may have 
already started the transfer process by this point, if it did, on balance I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Given that Mrs C subsequently cancelled her request to transfer, if any of her holdings were 
transferred in the interim (prior to the change of instructions), ordinarily theyd have to be 
returned to the transferor, by the transferee. Im mindful that despite Mrs Cs overall 
unhappiness with the situation, she accepts that the screenshot dated 3 September 2021 
from the business shows the restitution of the ISA has been fully made, so in the 
circumstances I dont think the business needs to do any more. 
But, if Mrs C still thinks that she has holdings with the transferee, its something she may 
need to take up with the transferee directly. 
I note the ISA transfer request was in-specie, therefore Im unable to safely say that Mrs C 
has suffered any financial loss as a result of any movements in her holdings, if indeed this is 
what happened. 
Im mindful that, prior to the acceptance of the valuation, on 7 May 2021, Mrs C placed a sell 
instruction on some of her holdings and did so again on 11 May 2021. Whilst I appreciate 
Mrs C wanted to sell some of her shares, this was after shed instructed the transferee to 
transfer her holdings in-specie, which meant that the assets listed for the transfer didnt 
match the assets held by her. I note the business says on 14 May 2021, the request was 
rejected because client placed a sell deal after valuation sent. Therefore, it was unlikely 
that the transfer could be successfully completed in any case. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that there was no delay attributable to the business. 
  
I note on 24 June 2021 the business received a fresh transfer request from the transferee. I 
note the business once again responded the same day with a valuation of Mrs Cs holdings. 
Based on what the business says, it seems that it then didnt receive a response and in due 
course Mrs C cancelled the transfer request. 
I note Mrs C says that even if her money is safe, this wasnt a timely transfer. Whether or not 
it was, for the reasons set out above I cant safely say that the business behaved 
unreasonably. 
Im aware the business accepts that its communication with Mrs C has not been of the 
standard it would accept. Im mindful that the business took several months to provide Mrs C 
with a final response, however it kept in touch to let her know what was happening. In recognition of this, it offered her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, which I dont think is unreasonable. In any case, in this instance this isnt of itself a 
reason to uphold the complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate the points made by Mrs C, I cant safely say that any distress and 
inconvenience experienced by her is directly attributable to any wrong doing by the 
business. 
Im aware that Mrs C has lost confidence in the business and is again considering moving 
her holdings elsewhere. If she hasnt already done so, she may wish to seek financial advice 
before doing so. 
I appreciate Mrs C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman