DRN-3537944
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Limited allowed a fraudulent credit card application to be taken 
out in his name.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The background facts of this complaint are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Hs testimony is that not all the details on the application are accurate and didnt 
reflect his situation when the card was applied for. But the details do match 
information that is held on his credit file and theres a link between him and his listed 
employer on companies house. So when MBNA verified the application against these 
sources, it wouldve shown that Mr H was associated with the addresses/business.
From his credit file I can see he has utilities and finance at various addresses over 
the time MBNA says he held the credit card. Several mobile phone contracts appear 
on Mr Hs credit file for the same address that was declared to MBNA during the 
credit card application, so it seems he was using this address even after he stopped 
being a director of the company. 
The pattern of use and spending on the credit card isnt something that matches what 
you would usually see with fraud. The spending is everyday spending over years, 
rather than quick, large purchases. And due to interest and charges more has been 
paid towards the card than was spent on it in purchases. There are also calls with 
MBNA to update the details and discuss missed payments. This isnt typical of a 
fraudulent account. And Mr H holds a mortgage for the most recent address. 
This credit card was taken out in 2008. During this time I can see Mr H applied for a 
number of other forms of credit  including two loans after the card defaulted. So its 
surprising he didnt notice the debt or report this card as fraudulent for over ten years, 
especially as the contact address for a long period was a house he mortgages.
Based on the above Im satisfied MBNA did adequate checks when it allowed the 
credit card application to be successful. And from the information these showed, the 
details did match that of Mr H. So I cant say MBNA has done anything wrong in 
granting this credit card and now not accepting it was applied for fraudulently.
Mr H says he believes the credit card was applied for by a family member and then 
they added themselves as a second card holder before spending the funds. So the 
account and debt should be transferred by MBNA to this person. However weve 
seen no evidence this was the case, or of criminal proceedings against this person to 
evidence Mr H has been the victim of identity theft. Based on the information we hold 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman