DRN-3904192
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) handled a claim under his car hire 
excess insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has an excess insurance policy with Zurich. He rented a car in summer 2022.
Mr P returned the car to the rental company, which then found that the drivers door lock was 
broken in a way that it wouldnt accept a key inserted into it. 
The rental company had signed off the lock as being ok before Mr P rented the car. It said 
the lock had been forced.
Mr P paid for its replacement at a cost of 280 Euro.
Mr P claimed for this amount under his excess insurance policy. Zurich declined his claim 
saying it wouldnt cover mechanical breakdown. The part of the policy wording it refers to is:
General Exclusions
Wear and Tear.
mechanical breakdown or damage that occurs as a result of normal use and aging
Mr P was unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and upheld it. He said he thought it was unfair 
of Zurich to apply this exclusion because it didnt have any evidence that the reason for the 
damage was wear and tear. He said Zurich should pay Mr Ps claim, plus 8% interest, and 
add £50 for Mr Ps inconvenience.
Zurich didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
There has been a considerable amount of correspondence between this service and Zurich 
after the view, in which Zurich has changed its stance on which exclusion applies, or 
whether the policy has any cover for Mr Ps claim at all.
In the email rejecting his claim, Mr P was told his policy wouldnt cover mechanical 
breakdown which would normally relate to the exclusion Ive mentioned above. The reason 
for rejecting his claim was then changed to a different exclusion:
Breakdown of the Rental Vehicle caused by lack of fuel, frozen fuel or any other 
cause not directly resulting from accidental damage or theft.
Zurich later said that it agreed that its application of the Wear and Tear exclusion was 
incorrect. 
But it said there still wasnt any cover for the event because the damage was described as 
forced so it couldnt be accidental damage. 
Ive considered how the damage was caused. The rental company has said it thought the 
lock had been forced. I think its Zurichs position that the damage may not technically be 
accidental due to the sense that the word forced might mean deliberate.
But Zurichs policy explicitly says it will cover excesses paid resulting from theft or vandalism 
of the car. And Id reasonably say that a forced lock was likely to have been as a result of 
theft or attempted theft of, or from, the car; or vandalism; or a mistake made by Mr P or a 
third party in trying to open the car with the key, possibly involving some force.
In each of these situations, Zurichs policy seems to me to provide cover. 
Zurich also said that there wouldnt be any cover under the policy:
Policyholder has confirmed no damage was sustained to the hire vehicle whilst in his 
possession.
Ive thought carefully about Zurichs approach here and I dont find it fair and reasonable. 
I think its clear that Mr P rented a car, which was signed over to him as being ok. Once he 
returned the car, damage was then found to a lock. Its likely that the rental company put the 
car through a series of checks to make it ready for the next customer, so its likely that 
damage might be found during this preparation process. And Mr P would likely be liable for 
this damage under the terms of his hire agreement.
The type of damage found on the car was apparently limited to the door lock mechanism. 
Many vehicles are locked and unlocked using remote controls, and I dont think its 
unreasonable to say that Mr P might not have used the actual, physical key to lock the car 
whilst it was in use by him, and I can see he used the physical key to start the car. So, he 
might not reasonably have been aware of the lock damage when he handed the car back.
Ultimately, I dont think its fair that Zurich can say there wasnt any cover under the policy, 
when its likely that Mr P wouldnt have reasonably been aware of the damage when he 
handed the car back.
If Zurich wished to apply an exclusion to Mr Ps claim, then it must prove that the exclusion 
applies. And in this case, I dont think it has.
In summary, I think its fair and reasonable to require Zurich to settle Mr Ps claim with 
interest. I also think Zurich should pay £50 for the inconvenience he has been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Zurich Insurance plc to:Settle Mr Ps claim according to the remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
Add 8% simple interest to the amount, calculated from the date Mr P paid the 
amount, to the date it is refunded back to him by Zurich.
Pay Mr P £50 compensation for his inconvenience.
Zurich Insurance plc must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman