DRN-2486847
The complaint
Mrs J complains the Leeds Building Society didnt provide advance notice that her Individual 
Savings account (ISA) was due to mature. As a result, the matured funds only earned 
minimal interest until Mrs J realised the problem. 
What happened
Mrs J held a fixed rate ISA which matured at midnight on 5 May 2020. 
Her husband called Leeds  as he also held an ISA with the same maturity date, a few 
months before May 2020 to see what needed to be done upon maturity. They say he was 
told that they would receive some communication from Leeds a few weeks prior to maturity 
to explain what their next steps were.
But Mrs J says that she didnt receive any communication from Leeds and, as a result, 
Leeds transferred the account balance to an instant access ISA which attracted minimal 
interest. 
Mrs J became aware of the issue in September 2020 and transferred the funds to a new 
ISA. But she says that, as a result of the lack of communication, she has lost interest on her 
savings for 118 days which equates to £95.70. So, she complained to Leeds.
Leeds says that it records show that a maturity notification was sent to Mrs J by email on              
22 April 2020 asking for her maturity instructions. The email also explained that, if no 
response was received, the funds would be transferred into an instant access ISA in line with 
the terms of the account. Unhappy with the response, Mrs J referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into it. But she felt that Leeds had provided enough 
persuasive evidence to show that an email had been sent to the correct email address in line 
with the terms of the account. So, she didnt think Leeds had done anything wrong and she 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs J asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, she said 
Leeds:
should be able to provide an exact copy of the email it said it sent  showing both the 
content of the email and the email address;
should have sent her notification in the post rather than relying solely on an email;
delayed sending her annual ISA statement. And had this been received on time, she 
would have had the chance to mitigate her loss.   
Overall, she didnt think Leeds had done enough to notify her that her account was due to 
mature  particularly, as this happened during the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs J has concerns that Leeds has been unable to provide a full copy of the 
content of the email including her email address. However, banks and buildings societies are 
not required to keep hard copies of correspondence sent to its account holders. I would 
expect Leeds to provide evidence that an email was sent and a sample of the content. And 
Leeds has provided this information to us. In addition, it has also provided evidence which 
indicates that the email was opened on receipt.    
I can understand Mrs Js frustration in that she doesnt recall receiving this notification. But I 
find that Leeds did send her a maturity notification on 22 April 2020 to the correct email 
address, in accordance with the terms of the account. 
I also note Mrs J thinks Leeds should have sent the original notification as a hard copy i.e. 
by letter. But I dont agree. The regulations and guidance that cover transactions of this type 
only require notification to be sent 14 days prior to maturity. They dont specify that 
notification should be sent in any particular format. And Ive not seen anything that would 
make me think Mrs J asked Leeds to only communicate by post.
Here, the email was sent 14 days prior to maturity. And Im satisfied that Leeds didnt do 
anything wrong sending an email rather than a postal letter. 
The terms of Mrs Js ISA explain that if maturity instructions arent received the balance will 
be matured to an instant access ISA which attracts a much lower rate of interest. I 
appreciate Mrs J is upset that her ISA balance only attracted a very low rate of interest for 
several months after maturity. But Im satisfied that Leeds didnt do anything wrong in the 
absence of her maturity instructions.
I can see that Leeds has accepted that the annual ISA statement was sent late. It has 
explained that this was a result of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and associated 
lockdown. So, Ive thought carefully about this. In doing so, Ive also taken into account a 
statement issued by the financial regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), due to 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The regulator acknowledged that firms may be unable to comply with the usual requirement 
for postal documents during the pandemic. But it said firms should ensure consumers are 
not disadvantaged by any delays.
In light of this, and given the wider circumstances at this time, I dont think a delay sending 
Mrs Js annual statement was unreasonable. So, Ive thought about whether the delayed 
issue of the annual statement disadvantaged Mrs J. But overall, I dont think it did. From 
what Mrs J has said, Im satisfied she was aware that the ISA was due to mature in         
May 2020 as shes told us her husband called in advance to enquire about what they 
needed to do upon maturity. And, as mentioned above, Ive found that Leeds had notified 
Mrs J that her ISA was due to mature within the required timescales. 
Overall, I think Leeds did enough to let Mrs J know that her ISA was due to mature and the 
action she needed to take.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman