DRN-2560548
The complaint
Mr P complains about the time National Westminster Bank Plc took to close his account. 
Hes also unhappy that he was required to visit a branch to close the account during the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr P decided to close his National Westminster account. He says the bank wouldnt allow 
him to do this by phone or email, despite him passing security. Mr P describes waiting for an 
hour outside his branch before he was able to see someone. He withdrew his balance on 26 
May and says he left with assurances the account would be closed and removed from his 
banking app by the close of the day.
This didnt happen and over the next few days Mr P checked his banking app several times, 
finding on each occasion that the account hadnt yet been closed. He says he contacted the 
bank each time, again being assured that things would be resolved. Although the account 
was eventually closed on 1 June, Mr P feels he was caused unnecessary difficulty. He says 
he had to delay his plans to move to another provider because hed been told having 
multiple accounts might have a negative effect on his credit rating.
National Westminster acknowledged it didnt close the account as quickly as it could have, 
offering an apology and £50 compensation. The bank couldnt offer any explanation for the 
failure to close the account, other than that it was an oversight. Mr P didnt accept the banks 
proposal and asked us to review matters.
Our investigator thought it was possible for Mr P to have closed his account without having 
to visit the branch. The banks website set out how customers could go about doing this. The 
investigator felt National Westminster had made a fair offer to resolve Mr Ps complaint, 
based on what had happened.
Mr P responded to say that hed been under the impression the account he had could only 
be closed at a branch. He reiterated his dissatisfaction at the number of times hed had to 
chase up the account closure, and his concerns over the potential impact on his credit file 
that caused him to delay his alternative arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already noted, in its response on 1 June to Mr Ps complaint National Westminster 
accepted that it didnt handle the account closure as promptly as it should have. It has made 
an offer of compensation to Mr P, and it is the amount of this compensation that appears to 
be the main sticking point between the parties. To my mind, then, in assessing suitable 
compensation there are two key issues for me to consider: did the bank put Mr P to 
unnecessary trouble in visiting the branch to effect the account closure; and, to what extent 
was Mr P inconvenienced by the way the bank handled the closure?
On the first point, I can understand why Mr P was worried. His wish to close his account 
coincided with a period of national concern over the pandemic, even if the lockdown had at 
that point been lifted. It seems to me quite sensible that he would seek to avoid visiting the 
bank if it were possible to close the account by some other means.
On the other hand, our investigator was unable to find any record to show National 
Westminster told Mr P this was the only option. And the banks website does suggest 
several alternative methods are available to close an account.
So while I dont doubt Mr P had genuine concerns about his branch visit, I cant reasonably 
say the bank put him to unnecessary trouble, or that its settlement offer should incorporate 
an element of compensation in this respect.
Im conscious Mr P was keen to make his alternative banking arrangements during this time, 
and that he made National Westminster aware of this. I appreciate his reasons for holding off 
on setting up his new account until the National Westminster account was closed, even if I 
dont entirely agree with the advice he says he received. What isnt clear, though, is that this 
delay had any material financial impact on Mr P beyond the fact he clearly found matters 
frustrating.
National Westminster undoubtedly caused Mr P some inconvenience in giving him 
assurances about the closure to which it failed to adhere. This led to Mr P calling the bank 
daily, which shouldnt have been necessary. The bank has apologised and offered to pay 
Mr P £50 in recognition of his time and trouble. Overall, while I understand Mr P feels 
differently about the situation, I find this is a fair sum to address his frustration and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr P £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman