DRN-3495078
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made mistakes and provided poor service 
when she tried to open a Smart Investor account.
The complaint is brought on Mrs Ds behalf by her daughter, who Ill refer to as Mrs R.
What happened
Mrs Ds late husband had a Smart Investor account with Barclays. After he passed away 
Mrs D decided to open a Smart Investor account in her name so that her share of his 
investments could be transferred to her.
She tried to open the account online, but Barclays needed her to send in certified documents 
to verify her identity. Mrs D sent in the required paperwork in July 2021, but Barclays 
returned it to her. 
When Mrs R phoned Barclays on 2 September to find out what had happened, she was 
wrongly told the account had been opened and that she should expect a call back with more 
information. But the call back wasnt received, and she complained.
Barclays upheld the complaint, accepting its service had fallen short, and offered to pay 
Mrs D £100 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said, on Mrs Ds behalf and in summary, that:
Mrs D has twice sent the required paperwork to Barclays  in July and November 2021. 
On both occasions it seems to have lost the paperwork. She sent the paperwork 
recorded delivery, but no longer has the proof of postage.
Barclays has lost sensitive information. She will hold Barclays responsible for any 
identity fraud that may occur.
The account has still not been opened and Barclays hasnt been in touch about how to 
move things forward.
£100 is not enough to compensate for the stress Mrs D has been caused.
If the account had been opened, the late Mr Ds investments could have been 
transferred and interest would be earned on the dividends. They should be compensated 
for this loss of interest.
Mrs R should receive compensation for her time and expense, as executor of Mr Ds 
estate and now as attorney for Mrs D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, this complaint is about the failure of Barclays to open a Smart Investor account for 
Mrs D. Mrs R has raised some concerns about the account in the late Mr Ds name, but 
I cant consider that as part of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
I find Barclays has made some mistakes here and didnt provide as good a service as Mrs D 
reasonably should have expected. In its final response to the complaint, sent at the end of 
October 2021, Barclays accepted this. It said it returned Mrs Ds identification paperwork in 
July 2021 without ensuring copies were provided to the Smart Investor account opening 
team; it failed to call back Mrs R when it promised to; it gave wrong information about the 
account being open; it didnt make it clear that it needed Mrs D to send in certified paperwork 
again; and a complaint should have been logged at an earlier stage. It is Mrs D, rather than 
Mrs R, who is the consumer here. And for that reason, I can only consider any distress or 
inconvenience caused to Mrs D, not Mrs R. So whilst I understand this has been time-
consuming and frustrating for Mrs R, I can only make an award for the time and distress 
caused to Mrs D. This remains the case, even if Mrs R now acts under a Power of Attorney. 
For that reason, and after careful consideration, I find Barclays offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs R has also complained about whats happened since the final response was sent. Mrs R 
says that Mrs D followed Barclays instructions and sent the paperwork, for the second time, 
using the address Barclays gave her. She says Barclays has lost the paperwork again. But 
Barclays says it didnt receive it. Im satisfied that, since the complaint was referred to us, 
Barclays has re-checked but cant find a record of receiving the paperwork that Mrs D sent in 
November 2011. Unfortunately, due to the time thats now passed, Mrs D no longer has a 
record of the proof of postage. I am not doubting what Mrs R has told us, but without the 
proof of postage, I cant order Barclays to compensate Mrs D.
I appreciate the concerns raised by Mrs R about identity fraud. But Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest that Mrs Ds personal information has been obtained by a third party because of a 
mistake made by Barclays. And I cant compensate for something that might happen.
Barclays cannot open the account for Mrs D until she re-sends it the identification 
paperwork. I think it made this reasonably clear in its final response letter and in its follow-up 
letter dated 4 November 2021. I dont find there was any obligation on Barclays to contact 
Mrs D again to discuss a way forward as Mrs R suggests.
Mrs R says that Mrs D was distressed having received correspondence from Barclays, when 
it was Mrs R who made the complaint on her behalf. Unfortunately, Barclays did not have 
Mrs Ds authority to correspond directly with Mrs R. So I dont think it acted unreasonably in 
writing to Mrs D direct about her complaint. I understand Mrs D has now appointed Mrs R as 
her attorney. Mrs R may wish to consider contacting Barclays to arrange to record this so that Barclays can correspond with her direct in the future if Mrs D decides to proceed with 
opening an account.
Mrs D says she wants compensation for financial losses caused because of the delay in 
opening her Smart Investor account. But dividends and interest continue to be received on 
the investments held in the late Mr Ds account and I dont find a financial loss has been 
caused because of the mistakes Barclays has made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mrs D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman