DRN-2652824
The complaint
Mr S complains that a motorhome he took on hire purchase from Black Horse Finance was 
not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S agreed to take a motorhome on hire purchase from Black Horse.
After some work was done on the vehicle, Mr S took delivery of it in October 2019. The
motorhome had a recorded mileage of around 36,000 and had first been registered in March
2011. Mr S paid a deposit of £10,000.
Mr S reported a number of problems with the vehicle. As a result, an inspection was carried
out by Mobile Caravan Engineers Associates Ltd (MCEA). In a 92-page report MCEA listed
64 reported faults. Of those faults, the report concluded that all but one were not present,
were the result of wear and tear, had been repaired, were features of the vehicle or did not
affect its quality. The remaining issue reported was that the engine cut out when on an
incline and when the fuel was at a certain level; the vehicles location meant that the 
engineer who carried out the inspection had not been able to observe that.
Relying to some extent on the conclusions of the MCEA report, Black Horse said it thought
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality, given its age and mileage. Mr S didnt agree,
however, and referred the case to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened and initially agreed with Black
Horses assessment. Mr S didnt accept that, however, and submitted further evidence  a
report on the interior of the motorhome and a diagnostic report, apparently consistent with
what Mr S had said about the engine cutting out. The investigator issued a revised opinion,
this time recommending that Black Horse end the agreement, collect the motorhome, refund
his deposit with interest at 8% a year, refund the cost of two inspections obtained by Mr S,
refund payments made from November 2019 and pay him a further £150 in recognition of
the inconvenience to which hed been put and the distress hed been caused.
Black Horse accepted the investigators second opinion and said that it had tried to arrange
to collect the vehicle. Mr S said that he wasnt willing to release the motorhome until he knew
the amount of the payment he would receive. The investigator provided Mr S with the figures
on 22 July 2020.
In September 2020 Mr S contacted this service to say that he didnt think the level of
compensation suggested by the investigator  and to which Black Horse had agreed  was
sufficient. He said he thought he should be reimbursed for all the hire payments he had
made (including those made more recently), solicitors fees he had incurred and insurance 
costs after October 2020. He also said he thought the additional compensation of £150 was 
too low and that he should receive £750.
Because no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for further consideration. I 
issued a provisional decision. I indicated in that provisional decision that I thought Black 
Horses offer of settlement  prompted by and made in line with the investigators 
recommendations  was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. 
I noted that Black Horse had tried to collect the motorhome but that Mr S was unwilling to 
release it until he knew how much he would receive by way of compensation and refunds. 
He later said that he did not accept the investigators recommendations.
I did not think it would be fair to require Black Horse to reimburse all the hire payments that 
Mr S had made. As the investigator had noted, Mr S had had some use of the vehicle. I said 
too that, since Black Horse had been willing to collect the vehicle since July 2020, it would 
not be fair to require it to refund hire payments after that time. It would not be fair either to 
make Black Horse refund other costs that Mr S might have incurred after that time, or to 
award interest for the period after Black Horse said it was prepared to end the agreement. 
I also agreed with the investigator that it would not be fair to require Black Horse to meet Mr 
Ss legal costs and that the proposed compensation of £150 in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which Mr S had been put was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S did not accept my provisional decision. He said that he had used the motor-home only 
once and had had problems with it. He should therefore have all the hire payments refunded.  
Mr S did not accept that he had prevented Black Horse from recovering the vehicle. He said 
that he had received a phone call from someone wanting to collect it, but no prior 
notification. He said that nobody would be collecting the vehicle without proof that they were 
instructed to do so. Black Horse had, he said, already been provided with invoices for the 
inspection reports. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
I note what Mr S says about the use he had of the motorhome and I accept that it was 
limited. I believe however that the investigator took that into account; I was mindful of it in 
reaching my provisional decision. 
I note too what Mr S has said about arrangements to collect the vehicle so that the hire 
agreement could be brought to an end. I can understand that he does not want to release it 
unless he is sure that the individual collecting it is entitled to do so. It does not however 
seem to me that it should be too difficult to make the necessary arrangements. The 
investigators note of his call in response to the provisional decision indicates that Mr S said 
he had received a random phone call about collecting the vehicle. That is consistent with 
his earlier correspondence. I note that he previously said he would not release the vehicle 
until he had details of all the payments he would receive.
As a general rule, a person should not be compensated for losses which, by taking 
reasonable steps, they could have avoided. In my view, Mr S could have avoided incurring 
costs (including hire payments) after July 2020 by working with Black Horse to arrange for 
the vehicle to be collected. Im not persuaded that he did so.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Black Horse Finance Limited should, upon Mr S making the motorhome available for collection:
arrange for its collection at no cost to Mr S;
end the finance agreement;
refund all hire payments made between November 2019 and July 2020 inclusive, 
together with interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until 31 July 2020;
refund the £10,000 deposit, together with interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment until 31 July 2020;
pay Mr S £150 in recognition of the distress he has suffered and the inconvenience to 
which he has been put; and
upon proof of payment, refund the cost of the two inspections obtained by Mr S.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman