The complaint
Mrs O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined her claim under her 
employers group critical illness policy. 
What happened
Mrs O became a member of her employers group critical illness policy on 4 December 2018.
Mrs O visited her GP three days later as she had rectal bleeding. Mrs Os GP diagnosed her 
as suffering from haemorrhoids and recommended she provide a stool sample as a 
precaution. But as Mrs O had suffered from haemorrhoids in the past, she didnt do the test.
In April 2019, Mrs O started experiencing nausea, abdominal cramps and bloating. She went 
back to her GP and took the stool test. After undergoing further tests, Mrs O was very sadly 
diagnosed with colorectal (bowel) cancer with liver metastases in May 2019. Mrs O 
contacted Aviva to make a claim on her policy. Aviva asked Mrs Os GP for a copy of her 
medical records, which included the following entries:
01-May-2019 11.50
 History      Patient informed about positive occult blood test and agrees to 
referral... Red blood in stool frequently for years but has haemorrhoids...
07-Dec-2018 11.50
Problem     Bleeding PR (First)
History      She has blood mixed with stool or on toilet paper on and off for 1A 
years. Worse when she was pregnant. No mucus. No constipation. Anal itching
Examination     two internal haemorrhoids at 01.00 and 10.00, PR normal
Comment        For local treatment. For occult blood and Calprotectin
Test Request  Faecal Occult Blood [and] Faecal Calprotectin
 Mrs Os GP wrote to Aviva, saying:
 I can confirm Mrs O consulted me on 7.12.2018 At the time of the consultation, it 
was certainly not obvious that bowel cancer was the cause of the bleeding since she 
had no abdominal symptoms like bloating, discomfort, change in her bowel habit and 
had no weight loss or loss of appetite. As a precaution, I ordered stool tests
Aviva obtained a copy of a letter Mrs Os treating consultant sent in May 2019, which said:
DRN-1204618 I met this ladytoday following investigations for a six-month history of rectal 
bleeding. She was very frustrated that so many times she had reported blood mixed in 
with her stool but had been reassured that this was most probably piles She is 
incredibly fit for her underlying disease and has no symptoms apart from the continued 
blood loss within her stool.
Having considered the medical evidence and letters quoted above, Avivas Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO) said:
 "There is objective evidence of rectal bleeding in the preceding 18/12 [months]. 
Rectal bleeding is a cardinal symptom of colorectal cancer and forms an NHS criteria 
for oncological referral if persistent and without appropriate investigation. I also note 
that there is a note regarding blood mixed in with the stool. Blood coating the stool 
tends to associate with haemorrhoidal bleeding, whereas mixed in with the stool is 
suggestive of higher GI bleed and can be from a cancerous cause. There is evidence 
here to suggest the presence of cancer whilst it was being managed as haemorrhoidal 
in origin. In my view, this represents an associated condition.
 The CMO also said:
 In my view, the missed diagnosis is inconsequential in terms of the context of the 
policy. An associated condition is defined as a medical condition in a patient that 
causes, is caused by, or is otherwise related to another condition in the same patient. 
Persistent rectal bleeding is a cardinal 'red flag' sign of advanced bowel malignancy. 
Evidently, her medical practitioner did not consider a potential malignant cause until 
late in the presentation, but the lack of this consideration, or subsequent surprise at 
diagnosis does not negate the clear association fact that rectal bleeding is a sign of 
bowel cancer. I therefore conclude that the associated conditions clause is medically 
justified in this circumstance.
 Aviva accepted that neither Mrs O nor her GP thought her rectal bleeding was related to the 
bowel cancer and that Mrs Os GP thought the bleeding was related to haemorrhoids, which 
Mrs O had suffered from since her first pregnancy.
Mrs O complained about Avivas decision to decline her claim, saying it couldnt prove her 
rectal bleeding in December 2018 was caused by the colorectal cancer, rather than her 
haemorrhoids. Mrs O also said her cancer was aggressive and spread fast, so she may not 
have had it before she joined her employers policy in December 2018. Mrs O told her 
employer Ive come away from two doctors appointments over the last 3 or 4 years having 
been told that blood in my stools is haemorrhoids... Also my GP may have written down 
mixed in and not coating but we didnt even have that conversation in the appointment.
In its final response to Mrs Os complaint, Aviva said the terms of her policy say it will not 
pay a claim if the insured person has suffered from an associated condition within two years 
of joining the scheme. Aviva didnt dispute that Mrs O had haemorrhoids when she visited 
her GP in December 2018. But it declined Mrs Os claim because it thought:
 the medical evidence shows that [Mrs Os] symptoms of rectal bleeding were present 
prior to cover commencing and that this symptom was associated to [her] diagnosis of 
cancer. 
Aviva explained to Mrs Os employer that if she had decided to take out critical illness cover 
herself in December, rather than joining the employers scheme, the policy would have been 
medically underwritten and it would have declined to offer Mrs O cover. Unhappy with this response, Mrs O referred her complaint to our service. She disputed that 
the blood in my stools did not lead to her diagnosis and said she did not believe Aviva 
could  prove that the only symptom I had prior to commencing the policy (blood in stools) 
was not caused by the haemorrhoids I had at the time. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Os complaint about Aviva, and asked it for more 
information. Avivas CMO said:
In clinical practice, the word persistent can be taken to mean any symptom or sign 
that either stays permanently, or keeps coming back despite apparently resolving... 
The claimant indeed suffered from persistent rectal bleeding and that was a cardinal 
sign which should have been acted upon. Bleeding on and off for 18 months is 
concerning 
 In my view, the persistent rectal bleeding was an unfortunate sign of the malignancy but it 
has been inappropriately applied to the benign finding of haemorrhoids whilst all along it was 
tragically a cardinal sign of bowel malignancy.
Having considered the evidence, our investigator thought Avivas decision to decline Mrs Os 
claim was a reasonable one. The investigator noted Mrs O was diagnosed with 
haemorrhoids, but there was no confirmation this was the cause of Mrs Os rectal bleeding. 
Our investigator thought Avivas conclusion that Mrs Os history of rectal bleeding was an 
associated condition of her cancer was a reasonable one. 
Mrs O disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying its unfair for her claim to be declined 
when she cant prove the rectal bleeding was caused by haemorrhoids just as Aviva cant 
prove the bleeding was caused by her cancer. Mrs O reiterated she saw blood on the 
outside of her stool, not mixed in with it. She said it was highly unlikely she would have had 
rectal bleeding on and off for years if it was caused by her cancer, rather than haemorrhoids. 
Our investigator reiterated that the CMO was a specialist and found this evidence 
persuasive, and referred Mrs Os complaint to an ombudsman to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to acknowledge the difficult circumstances in which Mrs O has made this 
complaint and Im sorry shes found herself in this position through no fault of her own. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided by Mrs O and Aviva carefully, Ive not upheld 
Mrs Os complaint. I know this will be incredibly disappointing in the circumstances, but Ill 
explain my reasons. 
Mrs Os policy lists cancer as an insured critical illness. But section nine of Mrs Os policy 
excludes the following claims: 
 Associated critical illnesses and operations
 We will not pay claims if the member or child has had an associated condition prior to 
the date they joined your policy (whether this was insured with us or another insurer).
  
An associated condition is defined by the policy as:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment which is either;  
recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence 
of a critical illness or operation, or
is listed in the "associated conditions" column of the critical illness/operation table 
which begins on page 4.
 
For clarity, the policy doesnt list any associated condition for cancer in the policy document. 
So these terms mean that Aviva is entitled to decline Mrs Os claim if she suffered from any 
symptom of her colon cancer before 4 December 2018, which is recognised by reasonable 
specialist medical opinion to be related to her colorectal cancer. 
My role here is to decide whether Avivas decision to decline Mrs Os claim under the terms 
of the policy is a reasonable one. There is no test that can conclusively prove whether 
Mrs Os rectal bleeding in December 2018, before the policy commenced, was caused by 
haemorrhoids, cancer or both. But Aviva needs to show its more likely than not that the 
associated condition exclusion applies to Mrs Os claim and that its applied the exclusion 
reasonably.
Aviva says that, in the opinion of its CMO, Mrs Os history of rectal bleeding was likely 
related to her cancer diagnosis. It says rectal bleeding in the pattern Mrs O described is a 
cardinal sign of colorectal cancer. 
Mrs O says Aviva cant prove that the blood she reported in December 2018 wasnt caused 
by haemorrhoids. It isnt in dispute that Mrs O had haemorrhoids, which can cause bleeding 
from the rectum or blood in or on a stool. And whilst the medical evidence, and Mrs Os 
correspondence with her employer, says she she had blood in her stools, I also note shes 
told us she doesnt recall reporting blood mixed in with her stool to her GP and clarified that 
blood may have coated her stool. 
As Ive said above, Mrs Os stool was not tested in December 2018 so there is no conclusive 
evidence to show whether blood was present in or on her stool in December 2018. But I 
dont think this changes the fact that bleeding from the rectum or blood in or on a stool are all 
symptoms of colorectal cancer, as well as symptoms of haemorrhoids. It may be that the 
bleeding was caused by a combination of haemorrhoids and colorectal cancer. But given the 
clear association between rectal bleeding and colorectal cancer, and in the absence of 
persuasive evidence from Mrs Os treating doctors to say the bleeding couldnt have been a 
symptom of the cancer, I think its reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the rectal bleeding 
Mrs O prior to her policy commencing was an associated condition of her cancer.
I note Mrs O says her cancer is unfortunately very aggressive, and its possible she wasnt 
suffering from cancer in December 2018. Shes said its unlikely her bleeding over several 
years was the result of her colorectal cancer. Theres no conclusive evidence to show 
Mrs Os cancer was present in December 2018. But given the short period of time between 
her visit to her GP and diagnosis with metastatic cancer, I think its reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude the rectal bleeding in December 2018 was related to her colorectal cancer with 
liver metastases diagnosis around five months later.
Taking into account the evidence available, I think Avivas decision that Mrs Os rectal 
bleeding prior to her policy commencing was likely an associated condition of her colorectal cancer was a reasonable one. Whilst I realise the impact my decision will have on Mrs O, 
I dont think Aviva has treated her unreasonably in declining her claim for critical illness 
benefit.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman