DRN-4402570
The complaint
Mr L complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused delays in setting up his annuity
for his Section 32 buyout policy, which meant he lost out on the type of annuity he wanted.
Mr Ls also unhappy with ReAssures customer service.
What happened
There are a number of dates involved and I only intend to set out those I think are key
to reaching my decision.
At the end of December 2020, after Mr L told ReAssure which annuity he wanted to take and
that it had incorrectly named his late spouse on the quotes, it sent him a quote pack with
forms relevant to his choice, also later confirming that its calculations hadnt been impacted
by the spouse error.
On 1 March 2021, ReAssure received Mr Ls completed form containing his bank details 
including bank name  for the annuity payments to be made to. Mr L said he wanted an
annuity on a joint life 50% basis, paid monthly in advance and with a five-year guarantee, but
he selected that his non-GMP income should escalate in line with the Retail Price Index
(RPI). On 27 April 2021, after Mr L chased ReAssure, it asked him for proof of identify,
including bank account identification documents, which it received from him by 21 May 2021.
And, on 5 July 2021, after Mr L chased ReAssure again, it told him there was an issue as his
bank wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, on 12 July 2021, after Mr L
tried to discuss this further with ReAssure, it received details for another bank from him, as
well as new bank identification documents.
In August 2021, ReAssure sent Mr L a letter detailing his retirement options again. And, in
September 2021, it told Mr L that his non-GMP income would be 50% lower than quoted in
December 2020 due to a significant increase in the cost of providing RPI escalation. It said it 
should have contacted Mr L once it realised to find out if he wanted to continue or not. And, 
in December 2021, Mr L accepted an annuity on a level basis, that ReAssure set up with a 
start date of 12 July 2021.
In the meantime, Mr L complained to ReAssure and, in response, it said it was investigating
the impact of the delay and it offered him £215 in compensation for distress and
inconvenience. Unhappy with this, Mr L brought his complaint to our Service. Mr L said he
felt hed had to accept a non-RPI escalating annuity to keep a similar annual income when
ReAssure had caused him to lose out on this by taking months to tell him there was an issue
with this bank. Mr L also said that he was yet to receive his non-GMP income.
One of our Investigators looked into it and said ReAssure caused a delay as it didnt tell Mr L
there was an issue with his bank until 5 July 2021. And if it had told Mr L sooner ReAssure 
would likely have received new bank details and supporting information and had all it needed 
by 1 April 2021. So he said it should use this date in its calculation and base it on the annuity 
Mr L selected in his application form, including RPI escalation for the non-GMP section.
After offering Mr L further compensation for time taken, which it said took total compensation
offered to £750, ReAssure said it didnt agree it had failed to let Mr L know he needed to
provide bank identification, as it told him this on a few occasions. But it said that Mr Ls
annuity should have been set up when it received his bank identification on 5 March 2021, 
rather than with an effective date of 12 July 2021. ReAssure paid Mr L £4,172.82 to make up 
for the income payments it said he should have received from that point. But it said the 
annuity Mr L achieved on 12 July 2021 is higher than if it had been set up on the same level 
basis on 5 March 2021, so he hasnt lost out on that.
ReAssure then later clarified that, having looked into it in more detail, the length of time it
took to receive Mr Ls bank identification  which it now said it received on 12 July 2021 and
was the last outstanding requirement to release his benefits  meant the quote it sent him in
December 2020 was out of date, as up to date options hadnt been issued in the last six
months. It said this is why, in line with its standard process, it sent options to Mr L in
August 2021 on a level basis. ReAssure said that, despite this, it made a business decision
to try to process Mr Ls annuity using his completed instructions from March 2021 and the
valuations from 12 July 2021, when it would usually require a new set of forms and the
values would then be taken from the date it had all requirements. But it couldnt honour this
as it found that the RPI escalating values it could offer  which the documentation said
wasnt guaranteed  had changed due to the time Mr L took to send it bank identification on
12 July 2021. So ReAssure didnt agree with our Investigators recommendation.
Our Investigator said the timeline shows that Mr Ls annuity payments should have started
from 1 April 2021 rather than 5 March 2021. He said ReAssure only needed to issue
updated options to Mr L because of delays it caused by not telling him what it needed
sooner. So he said that, while Mr Ls annuity might be higher than what he would have
achieved in March 2021 on a level basis, ReAssure used the wrong date in its calculation
and it should have based this on the annuity Mr L selected in his application form.
So Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me for a decision. And I issued a provisional 
decision, which said:
ReAssure received Mr Ls completed form, including his bank details, on 1 March 2021. 
While this didnt contain the bank identification ReAssure had asked for  seemingly as Mr L 
thought his financial adviser would verify his identity  I cant see that it did anything further 
until several weeks later, on 27 April 2021, when it asked Mr L for proof of identity, including 
bank identification. Despite receiving this from Mr L by 21 May 2021, nothing further 
happened until weeks later, on 5 July 2021, when I can see ReAssure first told Mr L there 
was an issue with his bank. And this caused Mr L to provide details for another bank account 
along with identification for this on 12 July 2021, which ReAssures said was when it 
received the final outstanding requirement for it to release his benefits. So I think its clear 
that ReAssure caused delays, particularly in letting Mr L know there was an issue with his 
bank.
Id have reasonably expected ReAssure to pick up on the issue with Mr Ls bank during
checks of the information it received from him on 1 March 2021 and let him know at the
same time as asking him for proof of identity, so that he knew what it needed to release his
benefits. I think ReAssure ought reasonably to have done this within ten working days of
1 March 2021, taking matters to 15 March 2021. And, in that case, I think ReAssures likely
to have received Mr Ls new bank details and identification  which it has said was the final
outstanding requirement to be able to release his benefits  by 1 April 2021, given Mr L
usually took around a few weeks to provide information. So this is the date it should use in 
its loss calculation.
While Mr L later chose a level annuity for his non-GMP section of his policy, he appears to
have been given this choice because six months had passed to require a new quote to besent to him and things had changed significantly during that time. But I dont think Mr L
would have been given a choice if not for its delays, for the following reasons.
When clarifying its position to our Service when asked  which I think ReAssure has had
plenty of opportunity to do  it hasnt said it would get in touch with customers as a matter of
course if amounts quoted changed significantly. Instead it said that its standard process is to
issue new quotes after six months and that Mr Ls December 2020 quote became out of date
as it didnt receive the outstanding requirements until 12 July 2021. But at the point I think
matters should have gone through on 1 April 2021 as ReAssure would have had all
requirements then, this was still within six months of the December 2020 quote which means
it wouldnt have been out of date. And ReAssure also said that in usual circumstances,
which Mr Ls seemingly would have been in that case, the values would have been taken
from the date it had all requirements.
When bearing this in mind I think its likely that Mr Ls application would have just gone
through based on what the values  including RPI escalation for the non-GMP income 
were on 1 April 2021, whether higher or lower than previously quoted. This is in line with my
experience that providers take the value from the date all requirements are received. And
I think the declaration in Section 6 of Mr Ls application form supports this when it says
benefits are subject to recalculation using unit prices, fund values and annuity rates
applicable onthe date following receipt of all the documents weve requested.
So I currently think that ReAssure should establish the position Mr L would have been in if
his annuity had been processed with an effective date of 1 April 2021 and on the basis
detailed in his 1 March 2021 application form, including RPI escalation for the non-GMP
income.
This matter has understandably caused Mr L stress during a time when hes said he should
have been enjoying retirement. His annuity payments were significantly delayed and this
matter has been ongoing for a long time. ReAssure could have provided Mr L with better
customer service. For example, Mr L spent time chasing ReAssure several times and it
promised him call backs which didnt happen, causing him frustration and inconvenience.
I can see that ReAssure gave Mr L misinformation, falsely reassuring him that hed receive
annuity payments in a few days. And I cant see that it provided Mr L with meaningful 
updates. ReAssure also incorrectly named Mr Ls late wife on a quote. ReAssure has offered
Mr L £750 in total compensation though and I currently think this is fair and reasonable
amount in the circumstances to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to him
by this matter, when also bearing in mind it has apologised and acknowledged it caused a
delay.
In response, Mr L said he had nothing further to add. And ReAssure said, in summary, that it 
doesnt understand why the provisional decision used a date of 1 April 2021 for Mr Ls 
benefits to be compared against. It said that this isnt a date referenced in its revised 
timeline, which was completed in line with its standard procedure, and that it doesnt allow 
customers to choose the date they want their benefits from. ReAssure said if not for the 
delay Mr Ls benefits would have been set up from 5 March 2021, but the benefits hes 
receiving with an effective date of 12 July 2021 are higher than what he could have 
achieved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When we previously asked ReAssure to evidence how it had determined that Mr Ls benefits 
ought to have been set up from 5 March 2021, it said this is the liability date as this was 
when it received Mr Ls bank identification, after receiving his annuity application on            
23 February 2021. ReAssure didnt provide any further explanation or supporting evidence 
behind why it used these particular dates though. Thats despite our Service having 
explained to it that this isnt supported by the evidence, which instead shows that ReAssure 
received Mr Ls application on 1 March 2021 and acceptable bank details and identification 
on 12 July 2021.
I recognise its possible ReAssure reached the above dates based on when it thinks it would 
have received the information from Mr L if not for delays, rather than seemingly mistaking 
when it did receive this. But, either way, other than adding that it completed its timeline in 
line with its standard procedure, in my view ReAssure hasnt provided a reasonable 
explanation with evidence as to how and why it came to the above dates for me to say it 
fairly used 5 March 2021 in its comparison. Thats despite being given plenty of opportunity 
to do so. 
So, based on the available information, my final decision is that ReAssure should establish 
the position Mr L would have been in if his annuity had been processed with an effective 
date of 1 April 2021. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, for the reasons 
set out here and in my provisional decision (set out again above). This should be on the 
basis detailed in Mr Ls 1 March 2021 application form, including RPI escalation for the   
non-GMP income, which I also note the comparison ReAssure carried out didnt take into 
account. And ReAssure should do this in the way Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
Has Mr L experienced a Past Loss?
A) Total of all the notional payments Mr L should have received had he bought an
annuity on 1 April 2021 on the basis detailed in his 1 March 2021 application form
(joint life 50% basis, paid monthly in advance and with a five-year guarantee,
increasing with RPI), net of his marginal rate of tax.
B) Total of all the actual payments Mr L has actually received from his annuity, net
of his marginal rate of tax.
C) Start including interest in the subtotals under A) and B) at 8% per year
simple from the point at which the accumulated total in A) exceeds B)  this being
when Mr L started to be worse off. The interest is to be calculated on each
payment in A) and B) falling after this point from the date that payment fell due to
my final decision.
Past Loss = A  B. If this results in a positive figure Mr L has experienced a past loss and
ReAssure should pay him this amount in cash. If the result is negative Mr L has not suffered
any past losses and no redress is due for this part.
In working out the net payments, ReAssure should assume Mr L was a 20% rate taxpayer 
neither Mr L nor ReAssure disagreed with this assumption given in the Investigators view.
Will Mr L experience a future loss?
Alternative A:
When considering Mr L has lost out on the RPI escalation on his non-GMP benefits and thathis annuity is with ReAssure, ideally, ReAssure should unwind Mr Ls non GMP annuity and 
replace it with a new annuity. The new annuity should provide him with the income he would 
be receiving now if he had taken out an RPI linked annuity on 1 April 2021 (joint life 50% 
basis, paid monthly in advance and with a five-year guarantee). ReAssure should bear the 
cost of changing this over.
Alternative B:
Only if it isnt possible for ReAssure to do that (and it should explain why this is to Mr L), it 
should:
D) Provide an annuity quote to show how much it would cost Mr L to replicate the
annuity he lost out on going forward (starting income should be set as it would be
now if he had taken this annuity on 1 April 2021 RPI linked, joint life 50% basis, paid
monthly in advance and with a five-year guarantee) at the date of my final
decision for him.
E) Compare the set up cost in D) to how much it would cost to set up the annuity for
Mr L on a level basis at the date of my final decision.
F) ReAssure should pay Mr L the monetary difference as a lump sum, as a
compensatory payment for the loss of RPI escalation.
I think this is fair and reasonable way to put things right in the circumstances, as 
ReAssures annuity set up costs factor in, for example, Mr Ls statistical life 
expectancy and therefore how long it would have anticipated paying him the RPI 
escalation for and the likely cost of that.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of ReAssure receiving Mr Ls
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mr L a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
ReAssure should provide the details of calculations to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
For the reasons given above, ReAssure should also pay Mr L £750 in total compensation for
distress and inconvenience caused to him by this matter, if it hasnt already.
Redress already paid:
ReAssure can deduct any redress it already paid Mr L for this matter from any lump sums it
is required to pay him after calculating future and past losses plus distress and
inconvenience payment. If ReAssure is able to change the annuity for Mr L as per
Alternative A above and any lump sum redress due for past losses and distress and
inconvenience is lower than what ReAssure has already paid Mr L as part of a previous
settlement attempt, I dont think it would be fair for it to reclaim this from him in the particular
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and ReAssure Limited should put matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman