DRN-3236301
The complaint
Mr C complains about Nationwide Building Society unhelpful response when he let it know 
that he was having difficulties repaying his loan. 
What happened
Mr C took out a Nationwide loan in January 2019. 
In January 2020 Mr C contacted Nationwide to say that hed been signed off from work for 
three months due to mental health and that he was having difficulties making that months 
payment. Mr C says he didnt get a response from Nationwide. Nationwide disagrees.
Nationwide subsequently sent Mr C several letters to say that his loan repayments were in 
arrears and if he didnt bring them back up to date his loan would be defaulted. Mr C 
complained, saying that Nationwide hadnt been interested when hed reached out in 
January 2020, and questioning why it was sending him letters in the middle of a pandemic 
when it was obvious hed lost his job and had no money coming in.
Nationwide looked into Mr Cs complaint, didnt reply within eight weeks and, when it did so, 
said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr C complained to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that they thought Nationwide 
could and should have done more for Mr C as it was clear at the time that he was 
vulnerable. Our adjudicator recommended that Nationwide bought the debt back  it sold the 
debt to a third party in September 2020  and agree a repayment plan. In addition, our 
adjudicator recommended £100 in compensation. Nationwide disagreed saying that it had 
told Mr C to contact their collections department when he reached out and that he chose not 
to do so. Nationwide asked for an ombudsman to look into the complaint. So, Ive done that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C took out a Nationwide loan in January 2019. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the loan 
was unaffordable at the time, and nothing to suggest that Mr C wasnt going to be able to 
repay it. I can see that he made all of his payments on time until January 2020. I can see 
that Mr C didnt pay in full in January 2020, that he paid in full in February 2020 and that he 
then missed a number of payments and was sent a notice of default. Im satisfied, based on 
what Ive seen, that his circumstances changed in September 2019 in a way neither party 
could have anticipated and that he got into financial difficulties.
Mr C has told us  and told Nationwide in January 2020  that in September 2019 he was 
signed off from work due to mental health issues. I accept that this was the case. Its clear 
that by January 2020 this was having an impact on Mr Cs finances and that this is when his 
financial difficulties began.
Mr C says he tried to call Nationwide on 8 January 2020 and was told the department he 
needed to speak to was closed. He says he also tried to go to branch but couldnt get an 
appointment to speak to anyone. I accept this. Its unfortunate that no-one at Nationwide was 
able to speak to Mr C. Had they done so, Im satisfied that Mr C and Nationwide would have 
been able to come to an agreement about Mr Cs payments, and that Nationwide would 
likely have agreed to give him a breathing space to get back on top of his finances.
Mr C emailed Nationwide to explain that he was having a really difficult time paying his loan 
that month and asking for help. He did so on 9 January 2020 having tried and failed to speak 
to Nationwide as Ive just mentioned. Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs email. He said that hed not 
missed a payment before and that he didnt want this to ruin his credit score. In his email he 
not only offered to pay £100 to £150 now, but also explained that hed been signed off from 
work for the past three months with mental health and had used all his savings.
Mr C says he didnt receive a reply from Nationwide. Thats not entirely accurate. Nationwide 
emailed him back the following day saying that he should contact its collections department 
and that theyd be able to explore different options with him. Its unfortunate that Mr C didnt 
call Nationwides collections department, as its very likely that they would have been able to 
help. I can, however, also understand why this response would have been frustrating given 
that Mr C had already tried calling to speak to someone and arrange an appointment. In 
addition, Mr C had explained in detail what had happened, and had offered to make a part 
payment for January 2020. As Ive said, its unfortunate that Nationwide didnt follow this up 
as Im satisfied that Mr C and Nationwide would have been able to come to an agreement 
about Mr Cs payments, and that Nationwide would likely have agreed to make amendments 
to his repayments. Mr Cs email contained enough information for Nationwide to identify him 
as a vulnerable customer, and I would have expected Nationwide to have acted accordingly. 
In short, I think Nationwide could and should have done more in January 2020 to help Mr C.
Nationwide didnt do as much as it could and should have done to help Mr C in January 
2020. Instead it recorded Mr C as having missed a payment  he paid just over £100 
towards his loan in January 2020 (in line with his offer) compared to his normal monthly 
payment of just over £390  and started sending Mr C letters to say he was in arrears. I can 
understand why Mr C was very annoyed by this, given that hed reached out for help. He 
paid his February 2020 payment in full and continued to receive letters to say he was in 
arrears. Had it helped more, as it could and should have done, I dont think Mr C would have 
reacted the way he did in April 2020 which was when he next emailed Nationwide.
I can see that Nationwide sent Mr C a number of letters in January, February and March 
2020 about his loan being in arrears. Mr C has also told us that in March 2020 both he and 
his wife lost their jobs due to Covid putting further pressure on finances. I accept this  it was 
obviously a difficult time for Mr C. Nationwide has told us that it continued to send Mr C 
letters about his loan being in arrears because he was in arrears before the lockdown 
started. Nationwide has also told us that because Mr C was in arrears before lockdown 
started, he wouldnt have been eligible for the payment holidays it started offering its 
customers who had been impacted by Covid. Finally, Nationwide has told us that it decided 
to stop sending customers letters about arrears because of everything that was going on.
Mr C emailed Nationwide on 24 April 2020 to say that he was fed up with the amount of 
contact he was receiving from Nationwide. He said hed just received a notice of sum in 
arrears and four calls already that day. He said hed tried to contact Nationwide three 
months ago and it was not interested so Nationwide shouldnt expect him to keep running 
after it now. I dont think this was entirely helpful, but I can completely understand why Mr C 
was so upset with Nationwide. Hed reached out for help, and hadnt received a positive 
response, and then hed started receiving letters that Nationwide about arrears  letters that 
Nationwide subsequently decided to stop sending because of everything that was going on. In his email, Mr C offered to make a token payment towards his loan of £1, presumably until 
he was working again. He let Nationwide know that he was due to start a new job as soon as 
the lockdown came to an end. So, this was another potential opportunity missed.
Nationwide replied to Mr Cs email  sending an auto-generate message because of the 
large volume of messages it was receiving at the time. The message explained that the 
recipient could apply for a loan payment holiday, without affecting their credit score, allowing 
them to reduce their monthly payments to £1 a month for three months. The message gave 
a link to how a payment holiday would work, but as Nationwide would have viewed Mr C as 
having been in arrears before lockdown started he might not have been eligible. The 
message also gave a link to help find other contact details the recipient might find helpful, 
and explained that if it didnt answer the recipients query then they could chat live with one 
of Nationwides webchat team or reply and a digital service agent would respond. Mr C 
complained instead of taking up these offers  and for the reasons Ive mentioned above I 
can see why and can see that this was another potential opportunity missed.
I can see that Mr C was unhappy with the amount of time it took Nationwide to reply to his 
complaint  and, in particular, that having given a date by which it would respond that it 
didnt do so. Nationwide didnt uphold his complaint and sold the outstanding debt to a third 
party. Our adjudicator recommended that Nationwide buy back the debt, agree a repayment 
plan with Mr C and pay him £100 in compensation.
Putting things right
In this case, I agree with our adjudicators recommendations. Nationwide and Mr C will also 
have to agree what is fair to record on his credit file. I do think Nationwide and Mr C should 
have been able to agree steps to help Mr C through the difficulties he was having in January 
2020 as a result of being off work. Nationwide and Mr C would then have had to consider the 
impact of Covid when in March 2020 Mr Cs circumstances changed once again. Theyll 
need to take that into account when deciding what is recorded on Mr Cs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Nationwide Building Society to buy back Mr Cs debt from 
the third party it sold it to, agree a repayment plan and pay Mr C £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman