DRN-2891881
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to complete his 
investment switch request in a timely manner. He complains that this led to a financial loss 
within his personal pension plan.
What happened
Mr T holds a personal pension plan with Scottish Widows. He used to be a member of a 
group personal pension plan held with them. Scottish Widows told this service he moved to a 
personal pension plan on 9 July 2020. 
Mr T said that on 27 March 2020 he tried to switch funds. He said he first tried to complete 
the switch online through the Scottish Widows portal. But when that didnt work he tried to 
call Scottish Widows. But he couldnt get through. 
Mr T said he finally managed to complete the switch on 23 April 2020. But that at this point 
the price of units for the fund he switched into had increased from 264.60p to 274.40p. He 
calculated that if the switch had been carried out when he originally requested it he wouldve 
received more units in the new fund.
So Mr T complained to Scottish Widows. They issued their final response letter on 14 April 
2020. They agreed with his complaint, noting that he wasnt able to speak with anyone on 27 
March 2020 to arrange the required switch. They said that due to Covid-19, some of their 
offices were closed without notice. This led to a large reduction in the number of staff 
available to deal with customer requests. They apologised. But didnt offer compensation as 
they felt the circumstances had been outside of their control.
Mr T contacted Scottish Widows again in early May 2020. They replied on 7 May 2020, 
saying they were unable to change their decision about compensation.  
Mr T was unhappy with this response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He 
wanted to be compensated for the additional units he felt he shouldve had. He also 
requested compensation for the time, effort and stress the complaint had caused him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He felt that there wasnt enough evidence for 
him to conclude that Mr T hadnt been able to reach Scottish Widows either by phone or 
online between 27 March 2020 and 22 April 2020 to complete his intended transfer. He 
noted that Scottish Widows had confirmed that their phones were unavailable between 26-
30 March 2020 and 2-4 April 2020. But that there was no evidence that the online services 
were unavailable, or that the phone lines were unavailable outside of the dates stated.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that regulated firms were required to have 
robust, tested and adequate business contingency arrangements in place. So he expected 
Scottish Widows to have been able to continue with a normal service, despite the pandemic. 
He also felt that it was difficult for him to provide evidence of the lack of availability hed 
experienced with Scottish Widows systems. He provided information from a previous 
complaint hed made in 2019 about using their online systems to carry out switches. He said 
this was evidence that the access issue hed faced with online services had been known and 
ongoing.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First I need to note that it is not in dispute that Scottish Widows phone lines were down 
when Mr T said he tried to contact them on 27 March 2020. Scottish Widows have agreed 
with Mr T that he couldnt get through to them on 27 March 2020. What is in dispute is 
whether Mr Ts inability to request his fund switch by phone that day caused him a loss. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that it didnt.
Mr T told this service that hed tried to call Scottish Widows many times between 27 March 
2020 and 22 April 2020, when he said he eventually got through. He said: I was trying on 
almost a daily basis to contact Scottish Widows and to access my account electronically.
Scottish Widows said that their phone lines were unavailable from 26-30 March 2020 and 
from 2-4 April 2020. Theyve shared their call records with this service. The last call noted 
before the successful call on 22 April 2020 was 10 March 2020. So Ive no evidence that Mr 
T called Scottish Widows between those 27 March 2020 and 22 April 2020. I acknowledge 
that he couldve called them many times between 27 and 30 March 2020, or between 2 and 
4 April 2020, but unfortunately the call records Ive seen dont show missed calls. 
Scottish Widows have confirmed that online contact was still possible while their phone lines 
were unavailable. And that Mr T sent them a message through this medium on 27 March 
2020. Theyve also confirmed that they were not aware of any online systems issues on 27 
March 2020. And that a fund switch can be made through their online system. 
Ive listened to the call Mr T made to Scottish Widows on 22 April 2020. The advisor he 
spoke to told him that the online portal hed been trying to log into was the old one which 
theyd had some issues with. The advisor let him know he could sign up for the new online 
portal, using his email address. Mr T declined that offer. The adviser arranged for Mr Ts 
switch to go ahead, noting that the unit price he would get would be the one from 23 April 
2020.
Scottish Widows Web based Team confirmed that the current online system would be better 
described as an updated system. They said that the original system was still working in 
March 2020. But that Mr Ts access to it would be dependent on him having the log-in details 
hed previously been provided with. They noted that the updated system required access 
using an e-mail address. And that this information was given to customers as and when they 
made contact. As had been the case for Mr T when hed called on 22 April 2020. 
In April 2021 Scottish Widows confirmed to this service that Mr T wasnt at that point 
registered for online access. But noted that their system indicated he had been registered for 
online access. And that he appeared to have last logged in on 5 May 2020. They noted that 
it was possible to switch funds online. But that it was a restricted service which usually only 
worked using Internet Explorer.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that in March 2020 Mr T was registered for online access and that he could log onto it. So Im persuaded that Mr T did have another 
method of switching available to him on 27 March 2020. I acknowledge that the online 
access Mr T had was a restricted service. But on balance of probabilities Im persuaded that 
Mr T shouldve been able to complete the switch he intended online. 
I acknowledge that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr T that he couldnt use his usual 
method of requesting a switch on 27 March 2020. But I agree with our investigator that, as a 
service, we think its reasonable that businesses needed time to adapt and deal with the 
difficulties they faced when initially responding to the pandemic. So I agree that it was 
neither unreasonable nor unexpected that Scottish Widows had problems maintaining their 
usual service standards in late March 2020 and early April 2020. So I cant say that Scottish 
Widows phone lines being down when they were was unreasonable.
Was there a known and ongoing issue with online access?
Mr T has provided information about a previous complaint hed made to Scottish Widows in 
2019 about using their online systems to carry out switches. He said this was evidence that 
the access issue hed faced with online services had been known and ongoing.
In 2019, Mr T had an issue with his online access. He raised it with Scottish Widows. They 
responded to his complaint. They told him what they believed was the cause of the problem. 
They said their website support team had: confirmed that the switching functionality is only 
available if permitted by your Employer as they set the access right. This is the reason that 
your request was not accepted. Mr T didnt agree that this was the cause of his issue. So 
Scottish Widows asked for further information in order to be able to confirm the cause of the 
problem. But Mr T wasnt able to provide that information.
Scottish Widows confirmed that Mr T moved from a group personal pension plan held 
through his employer to a personal pension plan on 9 July 2020. So at the time of the issue 
being complained about Mr T wouldve still been in the group personal pension plan. 
Scottish Widows said Mr Ts access to online switching wouldve been through the Personal 
Pensions part of their site. They said that this part of the site hasnt been modernised so has 
some known functionality issues. They said that switching funds online is only available 
using the Internet Explorer browser and the employer sets whether members can switch 
funds online or not. 
Scottish Widows reviewed the 2019 complaint when considering this complaint. They 
confirmed that the 2019 final response letter said that to investigate the systems issue 
further they needed details of the error message Mr T had seen. They said that they would 
usually ask for a screen shot of what happened so that the fault could be investigated. They 
said theyd never received a screen shot from Mr T. So no further investigation was carried 
out. Ive seen an email from Scottish Widows to Mr T asking for that information. And note 
that he was unable to provide it.
Scottish Widows said that the online switching problem Mr T had in March 2020 couldve 
been the same issue he experienced in 2019. But they couldnt be certain because they 
didnt get enough information about either issue to investigate fully.
So I can see that Mr T felt there was a known and ongoing issue with his online access. But, 
from everything Ive seen, I cant hold Scottish Widows responsible for this. I dont consider 
that Scottish Widows request for information about the issue from Mr T was particularly 
onerous. So Im persuaded that Mr T couldve done more in 2019 to help Scottish Widows 
resolve the issue he experienced at that time. And I also note that Scottish Widows have 
shown that Mr T did have online access, at least up to 5 May 2020 when their records show 
he last logged on. So, without any evidence to the contrary, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that Mr T didnt have online access on 27 March 2020.   
Could Mr Ts request have been carried out sooner by Scottish Widows?
Although Ive noted that Mr T couldve used an alternative method for arranging his switch 
instruction, Ive also considered if Scottish Widows couldve helped more than they did.
Ive seen the message Mr T sent to Scottish Widows on 27 March 2020. It said:
I wanted to tf 100% out of my existing funds (pens portfolio two & cash) and go 100% into 
SW SSgA International Equity Index. If I suffer a loss due to S Widows inability to action my 
request then I expect to be fully compensated as though my request had been actioned at 
the time originally requested, ie from today.
I can see that Scottish Widows treated this as a complaint, rather than as an instruction. 
Scottish Widows have confirmed that Mr Ts request was automatically passed to the 
complaints team as it was viewed as an expression of dissatisfaction sent via the on-line 
portal. They said that they can only accept an instruction from a registered email address. 
They said that Mr T doesnt have access to their hub so they wouldnt be able to accept an 
email instruction from him. They also noted that none of Mr Ts previous requests were 
made via online or email, but that he had called them each time. 
As it wasnt possible for Scottish Widows to accept an email instruction from Mr T, I dont 
consider that they couldve handled the message he sent them any differently. So Im not 
persuaded that Scottish Widows couldve carried out his request any sooner than 22 April 
2020, when he contacted Scottish Widows by phone.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr T, but I dont have enough evidence that he wasnt 
able to carry out the switch he wanted between 27 March 2020 and 22 April 2020. Ive seen 
evidence that hed been registered for online access over the period he attempted to carry 
out the switch. So Im satisfied that he did have an alternative method of making the switch 
even when the phone lines were down. So I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman