The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, didnt provide him with 
enough support while he was arranging a Debt Relief Order (DRO). 
What happened
Mr A had a Barclaycard credit card. In November 2017, because of his financial situation, he 
started the process of entering into a DRO. This was finalised in January 2018 and the DRO 
included his Barclaycard. In January 2019, when the DRO was completed, the outstanding 
Barclaycard balance was written off.
Barclaycard contacted Mr A in March 2019. They explained that theyd carried out a review 
of their processes and hadnt always provided the correct support to some of their customers 
who were in their collections process. This review covered accounts in Barclaycards 
collections process between October 2013 and July 2017. 
Barclaycard had agreed a scheme with their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), where they would refund interest and charges applied during the review period for 
any affected customers. The March 2019 letter explained that Mr A wasnt one of the 
affected customers.
Mr A has complained that Barclaycard didnt provide him with enough support during the 
DRO process. Our investigator said there was nothing to indicate to Barclaycard that Mr A 
was struggling financially until he contacted them about the DRO. So she wouldnt have 
expected them to have done anything before this point. 
Once Barclaycard were aware of the DRO, they put Mr As account on hold while this was 
being arranged. And Barclaycard werent aware the DRO had gone through in January 
2018, until they received a letter in March 2018. At this point they backdated their records to 
the date of the DRO. Because of this, the investigator said Barclaycard had acted 
reasonably, and didnt need to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that he was in financial hardship, and the 
fact he was only paying his minimum payment instead of the full balance and interest shows 
this. He says he contacted Barclaycard while the DRO was being processed, but he wouldnt 
have answered the phone during this period because he was receiving harassing calls all 
the time. So he feels Barclaycard shouldve written to him instead of calling him.
Mr A also doesnt feel that Barclaycard shouldve contacted him about their review of cases, 
if theyd already decided that his account wasnt affected. 
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1666545Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence, I agree 
investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons.
Mr A says only paying the minimum payment, and not the whole balance and interest every 
month, shows he was in financial difficulties. And Barclaycard shouldve recognised this and 
offered him some support. I agree that just paying the minimum payment may indicate that 
someone is struggling financially, but people use credit cards in different ways at different 
times. So not every customer who only pays the minimum payment is in financial difficulties. 
And itd be unfair for Barclaycard to assume this is the case.
Id expect Barclaycard to act positively and sympathetically towards customers in financial 
difficulties. But Id also expect the customer to make them aware they were struggling. From 
what Ive seen Mr A was maintaining payments on his account - on most months paying 
more than the minimum payment - and keeping within his credit limit. So the first indication 
Barclaycard had that Mr A was in financial difficulties was when he contacted them about the 
DRO. It was at this point he stopped making payments.
Barclaycard put a 30-day hold on Mr As account, to give him time to get the DRO in place. 
After this period they tried to call Mr A, without success. They received a written request for 
a further hold on the account, which they agreed to. In March 2018, Barclaycard received 
confirmation that the DRO had been put into place in January. So they backdated all of their 
records to show this was the case. Given the circumstances, I agree that Barclaycard acted 
reasonably when dealing with the DRO.
A DRO is a way of dealing with debts when you can't afford to pay them. Being in this 
financial situation, Mr A wouldve been receiving a number of unwanted phone calls from a 
number of different lenders. So I understand why he wouldnt answer the phone while the 
DRO was being processed. But I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to assume this was the case 
and only correspond with him in writing. If Mr A wanted to be only contacted by post, then I 
wouldve expected him to ask Barclaycard to do this. And I cant say Barclaycard did 
anything wrong by phoning Mr A when they werent aware he wasnt answering his phone.
Barclaycard conducted a review of how they dealt with customers whod been in their 
collections process, because there were concerns over how these customers had been 
treated. I understand that Mr A would like to know how Barclaycard failed to support their 
customers, but he wasnt in Barclaycards collections process in the period covered by the 
review. So, because Mr A wasnt affected by this, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to explain 
how their service to other customers fell short of their expectations.
Mr A is also unhappy Barclaycard contacted him about the review at all, when he wasnt 
affected by it. Barclaycard contacted customers who were affected and some customers 
who werent affected but may feel as if they mightve been. This approach was agreed with 
the FCA. So, while Mr A feels he should never have been contacted, I cant say Barclaycard 
did anything wrong by doing what they and their regulator had agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman