DRN-1150027
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs N were sold a MPPI policy in 1996 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Ns names, the MPPI policy only covered  Mr 
N. The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr N was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr N was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Ns age 
and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs N that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Ns account.  Mr and Mrs N say they were 
unaware that they had been sold PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately (though 
understandably) due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, BoS no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. However, my understanding of BoS sales 
process from around the time of the sale is that PPI was presented as optional and would 
only have been applied to the account if Mr and Mrs N had agreed to take it out. And 
although I appreciate what Mr and Mrs N have told us, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude that on this occasion its more likely that BoS didnt present the policy as optional 
and/or didnt get their consent.
BoS say they advised Mr and Mrs N to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs N but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ns statutory sick pay and for a much 
longer period of time. The MPPI was protecting a valuable asset and Mr and Mrs N 
didnt have any other guaranteed means of meeting the repayments.  
Mr N doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs N.
Mr and Mrs N could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs N wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs N this 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman