DRN-2235529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Stonehaven UK Ltd trading as Canada Life wont lend them 
any further funds under their equity release mortgage. They say it is unfair theyre being 
capped at a maximum of 40% loan to value (LTV) as existing customers on a legacy 
product, whereas new Canada Life customers could take a different equity release product 
that would allow them to borrow up to 50% LTV. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs H entered into a contract with Canada Life and all Canada Life is doing is 
holding them to that contract. If Mr and Mrs H want to be treated as new customers 
and take the other equity release product then theyll have to pay the early 
repayment charge (ERC) to end their current contract. Theres nothing in their 
contract that allows them to switch products without incurring the ERC.
Mr and Mrs H say the 40% LTV cap isnt set out in their contract, but it doesnt have 
to be as it forms part of Canada Lifes lending policy rather than being a separate 
contractual term. The contract says that further borrowing isnt guaranteed and will 
be subject to various factors, such as Mr and Mrs Hs ages, the property value and 
the lending criteria at the time (and that lending criteria currently includes the 40% 
LTV cap).
The advice was given by a different business, so if Mr and Mrs H feel the product 
wasnt suitable for them due to the maximum LTV available on it, then thats 
something theyd need to raise directly with the business concerned.
I can only order Canada Life to do something if Im satisfied it did something wrong 
and Im upholding the complaint. As I dont think Canada Life is doing anything wrong 
in holding Mr and Mrs H to the contract they entered into then there are no grounds 
for me to order it to vary that contract in any way however much Mr and Mrs H may 
want me to.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman