DRN-4219056
The complaint
Mr G says Revolut Ltd (Revolut), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to an 
investment scam. He says Revolut should reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Mr G fell victim to a crypto-investment scam. Mr G had seen advertisements 
and promotions relating to cryptocurrency on social media for some time and in 2022 spotted 
an advert for an investment company that Mr G said looked professional. The investment 
company seemingly offered an online trading platform that enabled trading in various stocks 
and cryptocurrencies. Mr G logged his interest and shortly after received contact from 
someone purporting to work for the company.
Unbeknown to Mr G at the time, he was in fact liaising with a scammer.
Mr G has explained that the scammer sounded professional and discussed details of 
investing and explained that the company took 12.5% of profits made. Mr G has said he 
conducted some reviews and found positive comments online and believing everything to be 
legitimate decided to invest. Mr G says that he was required to provide photo identification 
and proof of address also as part of the supposed companies due diligence for Anti-Money 
Laundering regulations  which he says at the time reassured him the company was 
legitimate.
In June 2022, Mr G initially invested a small amount of around £200 (with payment being 
made from another account he held with another provider). Mr G made the payment to a 
cryptocurrency exchange account that was held in his name. And from there he paid the 
company to trade on his behalf. Mr G was subsequently shown that he had made good 
returns and also received around £180 back  with Mr G being satisfied with the withdrawal 
process.
In July 2022, the scammer convinced Mr G to invest more and to upgrade his account which 
would mean a lower rate of commission and more access to be able to trade with other 
commodities. The scammer also explained a bonus scheme that if Mr G reached $7,000 in 
profits the company would deposit a bonus of between $2,000 - $3,000 into the account. 
Happy with how things had gone up to that point and believing everything to be genuine, 
Mr G made further payments of £2,683 on 12 July 2022 and £1,800 and £2,050 on 
13 July 2022.
Mr G was shown that his trading was going successfully and that $2,000 had been deposited 
into his supposed trading account. After a while Mr G believed that he had accumulated 
around $9,000 in profits. It was at this point Mr G decided to withdraw. Mr G was told he 
needed to pay a fee of £200 which he paid into his cryptocurrency account by card. And then 
he was told that he needed to pay 12.5% commission. As Mr G had supposedly upgraded 
his account  Mr G queried this. The situation and scam unravelled from this point and Mr G 
soon realised he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr G reported the matter to Revolut. Ultimately Revolut didnt consider it was liable for the 
losses Mr G incurred.
Unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator reviewed the matter and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
didnt consider Revolut ought to have had a cause for concern that Mr G was potentially at 
risk of financial harm, or that he was falling victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have 
intervened and questioned him further about the transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as the cryptocurrency had been moved on from 
Mr Gs cryptocurrency account, the Investigator considered there wasnt anything further that 
Revolut could do to recover the funds.
Mr G ultimately disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have 
been done by Revolut to prevent his losses. 
As Mr G disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2023 as I was minded to depart from the 
conclusions our Investigator had reached. 
In summary, I considered that when Mr G made the third transfer (for £2,050), Revolut could 
have done more to identify and prevent Mr G from the risk of financial harm. Had it done so 
and had Revolut asked some questions to challenge the purpose of the transfer and brought 
to life the type of scam Mr G was at potential risk of falling victim to, I was persuaded it was 
more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and Mr Gs losses could have been 
prevented from this point.
I therefore considered Mr G should be refunded in full, for payment three and the card 
payment - so £2,250 in total (that being the sum of £2,050 and £200). And additional interest 
on that amount should be paid at the account rate the funds originated from, from the date of 
each loss until the date of settlement.
Mr G agreed to the provisional decision.
Revolut responded and pointed out that Mr G had in fact made payment one on 
12 July 2022, payment two on 13 July 2023 but payment three was carried out on 
15 July 2022 and not 13 July 2022.I considered this and responded to Revolut explaining that despite this, I was still of the 
opinion that by the time Mr G was making the third payment, a pattern of activity was starting 
to build that suggested Mr G could possibly be at risk of financial harm and more could have 
been done by Revolut to identify this which reasonably could have prevented the loss. And, 
to my mind, the reasons I set out within my provisional decision regarding the third payment 
and what I consider Revolut ought reasonably to have done, still stood.
So, I was still minded to say that when Mr G made the third transfer (for £2,050), Revolut
could have done more to identify and prevent Mr G from the risk of financial harm. Had it
done so and had Revolut asked some questions to challenge the purpose of the transfer and
brought to life the type of scam Mr G was at potential risk of falling victim to, I was
persuaded it was more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and Mr Gs losses 
could have been prevented at this point. And I didnt consider Mr G should bear any
responsibility for the loss.
Revolut remained in disagreement. And it provided further reasons for me to consider. 
It explained that the transactions werent made in a quick succession and the funds were 
moved to an account under the customers own name. Revolut considered it did not have 
enough information to know what Mr Gs spending habits were to determine what type of 
transactions could be deemed as out of character or not. It explained that there was around 
a dozen transactions (mostly card payments) made between the accounts opening up until 
the first disputed transfer. Revolut further advised Mr G had also exchanged £100.00 to BTC 
(cryptocurrency) using their account during this time.
 
Revolut further considered Mr G had never used his Revolut account as his main account 
and there had not been a consistent balance in it. Revolut was of the opinion that Mr G 
selected "Spend or save money" as the purpose of his account when he opened it, and this 
was the most accurate selection from the list and it fits his account history even though the 
account history is brief.
Revolut argued that in my original provisional decision, the main argument to refund was the 
fact that Mr G made a second transfer to the same beneficiary four hours apart on the 
second day, and this should have led to Revolut understanding that the customer was very 
likely being scammed because of it and not simply making a regular non-fraudulent transfer. 
Revolut considered this argument was no longer applicable because of the confusion 
surrounding the date the third payment was made. 
Revolut says from its perspective, by looking at the pattern of the transfers and their 
amounts, such transfers are extremely common. And its customers can make a transfer to 
the same beneficiary a few days apart and it believes that interrogating its customers every 
time would be too intrusive and result in a very poor customer experience. It says thousands 
upon thousands of transfers are made like this every day and literally only a few of them are 
reported to it as part of some sort of scam. It felt it cannot stop them each time because they 
are simply too common and not unusual enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ive considered all of Revoluts responses on this matter and they dont change my decision. 
The crux of this complaint is that Revolut doesnt consider the activity was unusual or out of 
character and therefore it couldnt have prevented Mr Gs loss.
Mr G had held his account for around 10 months at the time of making the transactions in 
question.
I note that Revolut pointed out in its response:
We did not have enough information to know what the customers spending habits were 
to determine what type of transactions could be deemed as out of character or not. There 
has only been a dozen of transactions (mostly card payments) made between the accounts 
opening up until the first disputed transfer
As Revolut pointed out, Mr G had held the account for around ten months and had only 
made a dozen transactions in that time for mostly card payments. So to my mind, Mr G, 
making three payments of considerably more value than what he had used the account for 
previously suggests there was a deviation in how the account was now being used.
I explained within my provisional decision, how Revolut wishes to configure its fraud 
detection systems is its own commercial decision. But Revolut are required to carry out 
monitoring of accounts and to be on the lookout for unusual or suspicious activity that may 
indicate its customer is at risk of fraud or financial harm. And this includes looking out for 
suspicious activity or patterns of activity that may indicate to it that its customer could be at 
risk. When I consider the account and the usage in the 10 months prior, I think Revolut could 
have identified that Mr G was potentially at risk when he made the third payment.
I accept, in isolation, possibly the value of the payments in and of themselves might not have 
been an immediate identifier to Revolut, and I acknowledge that the transactions were made 
on different days. However, an amount or the duration over which multiple payments are 
made arent the sole factors that Revolut should be relying on when being on the lookout for 
unusual or suspicious activity. 
To my mind a pattern  that was potentially suspicious in nature was starting to emerge. 
Consumers can make one-off larger transactions  and I didnt think it reasonable to suggest 
that Revolut were on notice straight away. But here, Mr G suddenly started making 
considerable payments into and out of the account  compared to its previous usage for 
mostly minor card payments in the 10 months prior. And while I acknowledge Mr G had 
exchanged £100 into bitcoin at the end of June 2022, the disputed payments were 
considerably more significant in value, which didnt align with how Mr G transacted on his 
account in the 10 months prior to the scam. Also, by the time Mr G was making the third 
payment  it would have meant his spend was over £6,500 in under one week, which didnt 
align with his spending habits on the account prior to the scam. 
So, to my mind, by the time Mr G made the third payment, a potential identifiable pattern 
was starting to emerge that had the hallmarks of someone possibly falling victim to a scam. 
When considering its obligations to be on the lookout for suspicious activity I think Revolut 
ought to have identified a pattern was starting to emerge and it could have done more to 
satisfy itself that its consumer wasnt at risk.As I have said, Revolut has the knowledge of scams and how they can play out. A sudden 
change to how an account was being used and with the consumer making multiple 
payments over a number of days to the same beneficiary  suggests that they could 
potentially be at risk of financial harm. The pattern of activity suggests that. And here, 
Revolut didnt carry out any additional checks or ask any payment purpose or provide any 
warning and I think it ought to have done more here.
Revolut are the experts here and has the knowledge of how cryptocurrency scams look and 
feel. Had it provided Mr G with examples of these types of scams and brought them to life, I 
think it would have resonated with Mr G. Mr G had found the advert on social media, had 
invested a small sum and received a small amount back and was then being asked to invest 
more while being shown trading platforms that showed he was making good profits and was 
also being tempted with upgraded accounts and bonuses. These are the common hallmarks 
of these types of scams that Revolut is familiar with. So I think had Revolut through asking a 
payment purpose and providing a warning or asked additional questions through its in-app 
chat and pointed out some of the hallmarks of these types of scams and that it was more 
likely than not a scam and explain what checks Mr G could take to verify things, the loss 
could have been prevented.
I appreciate that Revolut has provided examples of what it considers to be similar decisions 
of a similar nature, however each case is assessed on its own merit and individual 
circumstances. Fraud, its prevalence and how businesses tackle identifying those 
consumers at risk of potential harm will naturally evolve and change over time as further 
insight and awareness is gained into specific scam types and fraud patterns. I am mindful 
that purely just looking at triggers from an amount or quick succession perspective, while 
are key identifiers, arent the only identifiers and Firms such as Revolut should be on the 
lookout for patterns of suspicious activity that could indicate that its consumer is potentially 
at risk of financial harm.
Should Mr G bear some responsibility for his losses?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Mr G should bear some responsibility for his losses also.
In this case, I dont think Mr G should bear any responsibility. Mr G wasnt aware of 
cryptocurrency scams and how they work, and I can see why at the time he thought things 
seemed ok. Mr G was simply the victim of a cruel scam. I am satisfied he believed he was 
liaising with a genuine company at the time and in the absence of any additional checks or 
warnings from Revolut, didnt foresee the risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to 
blame for what happened. So, on the particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider 
it fair to reduce compensation for some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions 
by Mr G.
Recovery of the funds
Given Mr G sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in his own name  with his money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Revolut 
could do to help Mr G recover his funds.Summary 
Overall, I consider when Mr G made the third transfer (for £2,050), Revolut could have done 
more to prevent Mr G from the risk of financial harm. Had it done so and had Revolut asked 
some questions to challenge the purpose of the transfer and brought to life the type of scam 
Mr G was at potential risk of falling victim to, Im persuaded it is more likely than not the 
scam would have come to light, and Mr Gs losses could have been prevented from this 
point.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold, in part, Mr Gs complaint against 
Revolut Ltd. 
I direct Revolut Ltd to: 
Refund in full, payment three and the card payment - so £2,250 in total (that being 
the sum of £2,050 and £200).
Pay additional interest on that amount at the account rate the funds originated from. 
This should be calculated from the date of each loss until the date of settlement. 
I think this is fair additional compensation in this instance because Mr G transferred 
the funds into his Revolut Ltd account from an account he held with another provider. 
And Mr G has said the money he lost was his savings. So it seems fair to award the 
originating account rate as this would place Mr G back in the position as far as is 
possible had things not gone wrong.
Mr G should provide either Revolut Ltd or our service with information about the 
originating account rate to enable this part of the redress compensation to be worked 
out by Revolut Ltd *
*If Revolut Ltd deducts tax from this part of the award it should provide a tax deduction certificate to 
Mr G so he can reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Revolut Ltd to put things 
right as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman