DRN-4164965
The complaint
Mr H has complained that his pet insurer, Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd (CGIC), turned down a claim he made under the policy he has for his dog.
CGIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr H was dealing 
with a different company who acts as CGICs agent. As CGIC has accepted it is accountable 
for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to CGIC includes the actions of 
the agent.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint in April this year. In that decision I 
said the following:
In June 2022 Mr H made a claim for H requiring treatment as a result of her limping on her 
front right leg. 
CGIC turned the claim down saying that it related to a condition that pre-existed the 
inception of the policy which Mr H failed to declare when taking out the policy and which was 
therefore excluded. It said H was seen by the vet in July 2020 with neck pain and a slightly 
sensitive lumbar spine. CGIC said it would add an endorsement on the policy excluding this 
and associated injuries.
 
Mr H wasnt happy with CGICs response and complained. He said that CGIC was referring 
to a one-off issue where the vet had not diagnosed any real issue and only advised rest 
which seemed to resolve it. He said that the exclusion that CGIC was proposing to add to 
the policy was vague and questioned why it would exclude any injury without evidence of an 
underlying condition. He said in any case the claim was in relation to an injury to the front 
right shoulder caused by ligament damage which would not be captured by the exclusion.
 
Mr H was also unhappy he wasnt able to speak to anyone from the claims department. And 
he said when he took out the policy he wasnt asked whether his dog had a pre-existing 
condition but whether he wanted cover for a pre-existing condition. He said he did not want 
such cover because his dog did not have any pre-existing conditions. 
CGIC didnt uphold the complaint. It said if Mr H had disclosed Hs pre-existing condition 
CGIC would have added an exclusion which would have said: excludes cover on all claims 
with respect to the back, spine and pelvis and any associated conditions with effect from 18 
June 2021 and excludes cover on all claims with respect to degenerative disease and any 
associated conditions with effect from 18 June 2021. It said it appreciated that Mr H said 
that the claim did not relate to the previous neck and back pain but it would fall under the 
exclusion for degenerative disease due to the vet having indicated that there was a potential 
diagnosis of collateral ligament damage/rupture. 
Mr H said that when he took out the policy he wasnt asked to disclose Hs full medical 
history but only ongoing medical issues. He said the exclusion CGIC wanted to add to the 
policy wouldnt exclude shoulder injury as it applies to the spine and pelvis. And even if it 
related to degenerative disease this wouldnt apply to the shoulder. He said Hs injury was 
not a disease but a trauma injury to the ligaments.
 
Mr H brought his complaint to us in September 2022. He said he wanted CGIC to fully 
indemnify him for the cost of the treatment and to compensate him for the poor service 
provided plus interest. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought CGIC should pay the claim subject to the policy limit and excess plus 8% simple 
interest. She said Mr Hs claim did not relate to a pre-existing condition. She added that 
when he took the policy out Mr H was asked if he wanted cover for pre-existing conditions 
but not if his dog had any previous illness/condition or treatment. She felt Mr H had taken 
reasonable care to answer CGICs question correctly. She also said the vets evidence 
suggested that the current claim for the shoulder injury was not the result of degenerative 
disease and so CGIC couldnt rely on that exclusion to reject it.
 
CGIC didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said that in its exclusion list 
both injuries are categorised in the same area. It also attached the sales journey Mr H would 
have gone through when he took the policy out via a price comparison website. 
Our Investigator did not change her view and the complaint was passed to me for my 
consideration. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy
Under the veterinary fees section the policy says it covers treatment carried out by a vet for 
treating an illness whilst the pet is insured with CGIC. Treatment includes consultation, 
examination, advice, tests, x-rays, slides, ultrasound, MRI scans, medication and surgery 
provided by the vet. The benefit limit under this section is £4,000 and the excess is £90.
The policy also enables the consumer to claim per condition up to the benefit limit in each 
and every policy period of insurance. At each renewal the benefit limit for each condition 
renews. Condition is defined as an illness or accidental injury or any symptoms or 
clinical signs of an illness or accidental injury affecting your pet. The policy defines illness 
as  any disease, sickness, infection or any change to your pets normal healthy state, 
which is not caused by an accidental injury.
Like most pet insurance policies, this one excludes claims relating to conditions that existed 
before the commencement of the policy and also events that happened early in the cover 
period  within the initial 14 days or first five days in relation to accidental injuries. A 
pre-existing condition is defined as any diagnosed or undiagnosed condition and/or 
associated condition which has happened or has shown clinical signs or symptoms of 
existing in any form before the policy start date or within the waiting period. A condition is as 
described above and an associated condition is a condition that is either a recurring 
illness and /or accidental injury or lump; or related to a previous illness and/or accidental 
injury or lump; or caused by a previous illness and/or accidental injury or lump. And an 
accidental injury is a  sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a specific 
time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of your pets body. 
When H was seen by the vet in July 2020 she was described as being lethargic, shaky and 
hunched. She was also said to have convincing neck pain. The vet treated this as a soft tissue/muscular/spasm injury and advised for H to be rested. H was said to be responding 
well to analgesia (painkillers). I cant see any further mention of these symptoms in Hs 
records. So based on this, under the terms of the policy, I dont think it would be fair for 
CGIC to treat this incident as a condition as it seems to have been a one off event and 
therefore not an illness (disease, sickness, infection or change in the pets normal healthy 
state) nor do I think it was an accidental injury or an associated condition  looking at how 
these are defined within the policy. And I, therefore, dont think it would be fair to treat it as a 
pre-existing condition either. 
Declaring the pre-existing condition
Even if I were to accept that this was a pre-existing condition, I dont think this was 
something Mr H failed to declare and therefore something that would enable CGIC to add a 
retrospective endorsement to the policy. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CGIC thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took the policy out. Ive looked at the pre-existing condition question Mr H would have been 
asked when he took out the policy. The question was:
Do you want to cover any pre-existing medical conditions for H. 
There is also a yellow box above that question which says that any medical conditions, 
illnesses or accidents that happened before this new policy starts will not be covered. There 
is also an i that one can click on which says a pre-existing condition is any illness, injury, 
symptom or sign of a condition that happened before your new policy begins. Illnesses or 
conditions that are noticed or diagnosed during the first 14 days of a new policy arent 
generally covered. 
CGIC says that at that point Mr H should have declared any illness H may have had and if 
he was unsure he would have had to call CGIC for advice. It added that by purchasing the 
policy Mr H declared that H did not have any pre-existing conditions and therefore the 
exclusions were placed after false information at the point of purchase. It added that a 
pre-existing condition is not just the condition but also the signs and symptoms of the 
condition. 
I am not sure I agree with what CGIC says above. Mr H was asked a factual question about 
whether he wanted cover for pre-existing conditions, he didnt and so he said no. I think 
that meant that he took reasonable care when answering and that he answered the question 
correctly. It follows that I dont think that Mr H misrepresented the information he gave CGIC. 
And for that reason I dont think CGIC can add a backdated endorsement to the policy. For completeness I should add that the policy says that CGIC may add a relevant 
endorsement to the policy in respect of a pre-existing condition if it becomes aware of one at 
the time of a claim. As I said above I dont consider the incident of July 2020 to be a 
pre-existing condition and this is another reason why I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for CGIC to add an endorsement such as the one its proposed to add. 
Are the two incidents related?
Mr Hs vet wrote to CGIC and said that in July 2020 H was diagnosed with neck and back 
pain which was thought to be a muscular injury with no neurological signs. The symptoms 
resolved with analgesia and anti-inflammatory medication. The vet added that the current 
claim is for treatment for right forelimb lameness. The vet also said that she did not think the 
lameness was connected to the injury H sustained in 2020 and that it is clinically a separate 
issue.
In the absence of any conflicting veterinary evidence, overall, I am satisfied that the 
condition that the claim relates to was not a pre-existing one. And for that reason, I think the 
claim was unfairly declined.
 
I also dont think CGIC dealt with Mr Hs claims fairly and reasonably because it did not 
appear to take into account the available expert evidence. Mr H has had to pay the claim 
himself. I also note that CGIC didnt respond to Mr Hs complaint within the eight weeks 
available to it. For these reasons I think CGIC should pay Mr H £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, my provisional decision is that Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd must now pay the claim for the right forelimb lameness subject to any 
policy limit and any applicable excess. It must also pay Mr H interest at a yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date he paid each claim to the date it pays him. And it must also pay Mr H 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
The parties responses
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr Hs initial comments included the 
following:
He didnt think that £100 was a fair reflection of the stress and inconvenience he suffered 
and felt that £500 would be more appropriate. 
He requested that the excess be taken off the claim amount rather than the policy limit- 
which is £4,000 in this case. 
CGIC also responded and accepted my decision. It initially said it would pay a total of 
£214.05 plus interest and the £100 compensation. It also confirmed that the policy had been 
cancelled mid-term and that it had made deductions to the settlement amount as a result of 
this. 
Our Investigator went back to CGIC and clarified that the claim amount was around £4,500. 
Mr H had submitted three separate claim forms for different types of treatment all relating to 
the same incident. It transpired that CGIC hadnt received all the claims Mr H had made. 
A further claim form for around £4,700 was then sent to CGIC by Mr H who said he had 
originally submitted it in August 2022. 
I went back to the parties and clarified that as far as I was aware there were three separate 
treatment invoices submitted and they all related to the same condition. I agreed that two 
excesses would be applied as the treatment H received spanned two policy years and also confirmed that the excess should be deducted from the claim amount and not the policy limit. 
I also clarified that as I didnt consider that there was a relevant pre-existing condition all 
claims should be paid without CGIC needing to do any further assessment.
 
CGIC emailed Mr H with the amounts it believed were payable under the policy, subject to 
deductions for items that the policy doesnt cover. Mr H provided his own calculations and 
said that the total amount due was £3,808.89 plus interest payable from the date each 
invoice was paid. He also agreed that a deduction of £243.20 could be made from the claim 
amount as a result of the policy being cancelled mid-term. CGIC agreed to pay the 
£3,808.89 plus interest plus £100 compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased that the parties have come to an agreement as to the total claim amount 
(£3,808.89) which includes all three invoices and I have no further findings to make on that 
point. 
The only point that remains is the issue of compensation. Mr H said he believes that £500 is 
a more appropriate amount. I appreciate that Mr H feels strongly about this but I feel that the 
£100 I awarded in my provisional decision is sufficient and in line with awards we have made 
in similar circumstances.
 
The rest of the findings I made in my provisional decision now form the findings of this my 
final decision including the fact that CGIC must pay the claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd must now pay the claim for the right forelimb lameness which comes to a total 
of £3,808.89. It must also pay Mr H interest at a yearly rate of 8% simple from the date he 
paid each claim/invoice to the date it pays him. And it must also pay Mr H £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him.
 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd pays interest and considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman