DRN-2443102
The complaint
Ms P complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
store card. Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill 
refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.
What happened
Ms P took out the PPI policy when she applied for her store card in November 1998. Ms P 
couldnt remember much about the sale. Allianz said that Ms P filled in an application form 
for the card (and the PPI) and no advice was given. Ms P said that she doesnt remember 
PPI being mentioned and it was added without her knowledge and consent.
If Ms P had successfully claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each 
month it would have paid 15% of the store card balance outstanding when she stopped work 
until, if necessary, the balance was cleared. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms P disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz sent us a copy of Ms Ps store card application form. This shows a section headed 
payment protection, in which Ms P ticked a box to say that she wanted PPI. Theres nothing 
on the application form to suggest that Ms P wouldnt have been given the card without the 
PPI. So overall, I think its most likely that Ms P was aware of the PPI, had a choice about 
taking it and decided to do so. I think she probably just doesnt remember doing so as it was 
so long ago.
Allianz said it didnt advise Ms P to take out the PPI, and Ive no reason to think thats 
incorrect. So it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for her. But it shouldve given 
her enough information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
I dont think Allianz clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But I cant see 
that Ms P would have been affected by any of these. The form included the cost of the policy 
- 64p per £100 owed - and referred to separate documents for more information. I dont think 
Ms P wouldve realised that she wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
And I dont think shed have realised the premium would be added to her store card balance 
and she could be charged interest on it.
Ms P told us that, at the time of the sale, she was employed and in good health. She also 
said that she was entitled to full sick pay from her employer, but didnt say how long this 
wouldve been paid for. The application form shows shed been working for her employer for 
a year and a half, so I dont think its likely that shed have received full pay for a lengthy 
period. Ms P said that her family couldve helped out if she was in difficulties. But their 
circumstances couldve changed so I dont think their help couldve been guaranteed. 
Although I dont think Allianz fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Ms P would have 
acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. Although Ms P said she had good 
sick pay arrangements, its not clear for how long she wouldve received full pay, and the PPI 
benefits would have been payable in addition to these  and couldve carried on until the 
card balance was repaid. I think Ms P couldve found it difficult to cover the card payments 
after her sick pay ended or if shed lost her job. Overall, I think the PPI couldve provided Ms 
P with a useful benefit. This means Ms P is not worse off as a result of what Allianz did 
wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman