DRN-3939013
The complaint
Mr M complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and their valuation of his 
stolen car.
What happened
Mr M held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. In September 2022, Mr Ms car 
was stolen and so, he contacted AIL to make a claim on this policy. Mr Ms claim was 
accepted and AIL provided Mr M with a valuation settlement figure of £16,900 less the policy 
excess. This settlement was paid in two parts, with Mr Ms existing finance being cleared 
and the remainder being paid to him directly. But Mr M was unhappy with this valuation, so 
he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think the valuation of his car allowed him to replace it with one of a similar make 
and model of a similar age. And he didnt think it was fair for him to be left at a financial loss 
when he needed to make a claim through no fault of his own. So, Mr M wanted AIL to 
increase the valuation of his car and pay him the additional amount. Mr M also complained 
about the service hed received when raising a complaint, and the increase to his premium 
for other cars attached to the policy.
AIL responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They paid Mr M £85 to recognise their 
service failures during the complaint process. But they thought their pricing of his premium 
was fair. And importantly, they thought the valuation of Mr Ms car was a fair one, in line with 
motor trade guides. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of 
the complaint. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that AILs 
valuation of Mr Ms car was a fair one, that fell in line with industry guidelines and motor 
trade guides as well as the policy terms and conditions. So, they didnt think AIL needed to 
do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree, maintained his view that it was unfair for him to be left unable to replace 
his stolen car with a car of a similar specification. He provided screenshots of similar cars 
hed found on an online retailer advertised for significantly more than the settlement he 
received. And he thought this was evidence that the settlement paid by AIL should be 
increased. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I dont doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr M when he realised his car had been stolen. And I appreciate this led 
to Mr M needing to make a claim on his policy, as he was left without a car through no fault 
of his own. So, I can understand why Mr M would expect AIL to provide him with a 
settlement that he felt placed him back in the position he wouldve been had the car not been 
stolen in the first place. And as Mr M doesnt feel the settlement hes received allows him to 
arrange this, I can understand why he feels as though hes been unfairly treated.
But for me to say AIL should increase the valuation of Mr Ms car, and so increase the 
settlement amount he receives, I first need to be satisfied AIL have done something wrong. 
So, Id need to be satisfied that AIL failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy 
Mr M held when they valued the car. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they acted 
unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise AIL have already paid compensation to 
Mr M for the service he received during their complaint process. This isnt something Ive 
considered, as it relates directly to AILs complaint handling, which is an unregulated activity 
and so, fails outside of our services jurisdiction. And although Mr M did raise concerns about 
his premium pricing, I cant see that Mr M has asked for us to consider this further and so, 
Ive assumed this point is no longer in dispute.
So, what I have considered is the main point of dispute, which centres around the valuation 
of Mr Ms stolen car.
I can see AIL provided Mr M with a settlement of £16,900 less the excess applicable on the 
policy. This payment was split into two parts, with a portion being paid to settle Mr Ms 
existing finance on the car and the remainder being paid to Mr M directly. So, I dont think 
the settlement Mr M received was ever likely to allow him to purchase a replacement car 
outright, nor would I expect it to do so, as he had existing finance on the car that was stolen.
But I recognise Mr M doesnt feel the valuation was fair as a whole. And I appreciate that, if 
the car had a higher valuation, Mr M wouldve received a greater settlement amount payable 
directly to him. So, Ive thought about whether I think AILs valuation fell in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mr M held.
Ive seen these terms and conditions. And I can see the term market value is defined as 
the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides. 
I think this definition makes it reasonably clear the valuation would be based on the values 
provided by the motor trade guides. And this falls in line with industry guidelines, and 
standard industry approach.
Ive seen the motor trade guide valuations AIL found at the time they calculated the 
settlement for the claim. And Ive seen the additional valuations our investigator sought as 
part of their investigation process, to validate the valuations AIL used. And having 
considered all of this information, Im satisfied the settlement of £16,900 falls within the 
motor trade guide values that were provided. So, I think AIL acted within the terms and 
conditions of the policy when valuing Mr Ms car and settling his claim.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether theyve acted fairly when doing 
so. I recognise Mr M strongly believes that the valuation placed on his car is unfair. And Ive considered the screenshots hes provided, showing the same make and model of car, of 
similar ages, being advertised online for significantly more than the amount AIL provided.
But these screenshots fail to provide full details of the cars, such as their mileage and any 
modifications they may have had, which may have had an impact on the price they were 
being advertised for. And even if the information Mr M provided did contain these, I dont 
think this is evidence that AIL acted unfairly. This is because the market value of a car can 
differ greatly from the amount a car is advertised, and sold for, on a retail basis as a seller is 
able to inflate a retail price to account for any profit.
Im satisfied that the valuation placed on Mr Ms stolen car, and so the settlement Mr M 
received, is a fair reflection of the cars market value, based on the motor trade guides Id 
expect AIL to have used, in line with the standard industry approach. So, while I do 
understand Mr Ms concerns about the financial position it has left him, I dont think I can say 
Mr M has been left in the position because of anything AIL have done wrong. And because 
of this, I dont think AIL need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr M is likely to be 
unhappy with the fact the valuation of his car is expected to reflect the market value based 
on trade guides and that this can differ from actual retail prices. But this is an industry 
guideline set by the industry regulator and so, its not something our service is able to 
comment upon or direct any change towards. Instead, we can only consider whether a 
business has acted within these guidelines and I think AIL have on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman