DRN-2827672
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc dealt with the closure of 
their account. 
What happened
On 2 March 2021 Mrs S went into her local branch to withdraw money, but was told that the 
account was closed. She says she was surprised by this as no prior notice had been given, 
and that the manager who spoke to her was rude and unprofessional.
Mr S tried to contact Bank of Scotland to ask where the money from the account had been 
transferred to, but was told the account couldnt be located. 
Bank of Scotland says a cheque was posted to Mr and Mrs S on the same day the account 
was closed. Mr and Mrs S have said they didnt receive a cheque at that time, but received 
correspondence which looked like something was missing from it. They also said when they 
eventually received the cheque, there was no covering letter with it.
Bank of Scotland said it had previously explained to Mr and Mrs S why it would be closing 
their account and so didnt need to give further notice of this. It also said the branch manager 
hadnt been rude to Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with Bank of Scotland and referred their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues, but didnt think Bank of Scotland had acted unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following a previous complaint and a final decision by another ombudsman at this service, 
Mr and Mrs Ss account with Bank of Scotland was closed. The previous ombudsman said 
that Bank of Scotlands decision to close the account wasnt unfair. So on 24 February 2021, 
Bank of Scotland closed Mr and Mrs Ss account. 
Bank of Scotland let Mr and Mrs S know the account was going to be closed once it had 
initially made the decision to do this, but it put this action on hold pending the outcome of the 
ombudsmans decision. I dont think Bank of Scotland wouldve needed to give Mr and Mrs S 
further notice that it would be closing the account, once the ombudsman confirmed that its 
decision to do so wasnt unfair.
This is because the ombudsmans decision confirmed: As Im not upholding Mr and Mrs 
[Ss] complaint, the account will now be closed in line with the notice previously provided. 
So I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve known, following receipt of the ombudsmans final 
decision, that the account would be closed.
Bank of Scotland said that given the effect of the pandemic on the postal service, timescales 
for delivery of the cheque may have been affected, following closure of the account. I think 
this is a plausible explanation and, in any event, Bank of Scotland issued another cheque 
which did reach Mr and Mrs S, once it had been made aware they didnt receive the first 
one. So I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted unreasonably here, or that it caused Mr and 
Mrs S any inconvenience by sending them a cheque without a covering letter.
Ive also considered the impact of the delay in Mr and Mrs S receiving their cheque. The first 
cheque, according to Bank of Scotlands records, was sent to Mr and Mrs S on 24 February 
2021. The replacement cheque was issued and sent to Mr and Mrs S on 17 March 2021. So 
the delay in Mr and Mrs S receiving the cheque was less than one month, and they received 
it only a couple of weeks after Mrs S visited the branch on 2 March and became aware of the 
account closure.
So while I appreciate that the delay in receiving their money caused Mr and Mrs S to worry 
over a period of a few weeks, and theyve said they had to contact Bank of Scotland several 
times about this, I dont consider there to have been a significant impact on Mr and Mrs S, in 
addition to some worry and inconvenience. Using financial services isnt always going to be 
hassle free, so some minor inconvenience is inevitable at times. And even if Bank of 
Scotland had made a mistake in sending a letter without a cheque in the first instance, it 
made up for this soon afterwards by reissuing the cheque without undue delay.
In relation to the branch visit, Mrs S has said the account manager was rude to her and that 
she left the branch feeling humiliated and in tears. Shes provided a detailed account of what 
happened, which describes the way the manager approached her and spoke to her, telling 
her the account had been closed and the balance of the account would come in the post. But 
nothing shes said indicates that the manager was rude, that he said anything inappropriate, 
or that he intended to upset her. I dont doubt that Mrs S was distressed following the branch 
visit, but Ive not seen anything which would make me think the branch manager acted in an 
unprofessional way towards her.
Ive considered the impact of everything thats happened in relation to this particular 
complaint. I can appreciate it must have been worrying for Mr and Mrs S to not know where 
the account money had gone once the account was closed. But Ive also had to consider 
whether Bank of Scotland acted unfairly and couldve reasonably foreseen the impact these 
events had on Mr and Mrs S. And I dont think it did anything I would consider unreasonable 
 or that it couldve reasonably foreseen the distress Mr and Mrs S experienced. This is 
because I think Bank of Scotland did all it could to ensure Mr and Mrs S received their funds 
soon after the account was closed.
For the reasons given, Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but I hope my explanation helps them understand why 
I wont be requiring Bank of Scotland to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman