DRN-3445545
The complaint
Mr S complains about the time it took Astrenska Insurance Limited to settle a claim he made 
on his home appliance insurance policy.
Reference to Astrenska includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S held a home appliance insurance policy with Astrenska.
In October 2021 his appliance broke, so he called to make a claim on his policy. Mr S said 
he knew what the issue was. When making the claim he explained the make and model of 
his appliance, what he thought had gone wrong with it and what part he thought needed to 
be replaced.
Two working days later, Astrenska approved Mr Ss claim and arranged to send an engineer 
round.
The engineer attended a further three working days later and diagnosed the problem with 
Mr Ss appliance  the same diagnostic Mr S reached. But the engineer didnt have the 
required part with them and needed to order it. The part arrived three days later.
Mr S didnt wait for the part. He said he needed to use the appliance as he was living with 
children and the appliance was in use daily.
Mr S complained about the service hed received. He said the policy is advertised as 24/7 
care, and the FAQs say Astrenska will aim to resolve claims within 72 hours.
Astrenska didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It thought it handled his claim in a reasonable 
timeframe.
Mr S didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought Astrenska had acted reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I understand hell not be pleased with 
this decision. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Ss policy doesnt guarantee a repair will be completed within any specified timeframe. 
So, I need to consider what is reasonable. And that consideration needs to include other 
information available, such as information in FAQs.
The FAQs do say Astrenska will aim to repair an appliance within 72 hours of the claim 
being approved. And in this case the engineer did attend within 72 hours of the claim being 
approved. But they didnt have the required part.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration here, he told them what he thought the issue was and 
what needed to be replaced, and he was proven right. With the benefit of hindsight, I can 
completely understand why Mr S is frustrated that Astrenska didnt take his word for what the 
issue was and come prepared to fix that issue. But I dont think Astrenska were acting 
unreasonably by needing one of their own engineers to diagnose the problem. And while I 
agree it would have been better if the engineer arrived with the required part, I dont think its 
unreasonable the engineer didnt carry all the potential required parts for this job  especially 
before knowing for certain what the problem with Mr Ss appliance was. The part was 
ordered the same day and arrived three days later. I dont find that unreasonable.
Mr S decided he couldnt wait that long for the part, which is understandable too, but that 
was his choice. I dont require Astrenska to do anything more on this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman