DRN-3935652
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance), who I 
shall refer to as UKI, has handled her Motor Insurance claim.
All references to UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
UKI has accepted it has made mistakes in how it handled Mrs Bs claim, and in the 
service, it provided to her. And from reviewing matters, I can fully appreciate why the 
actions and errors UKI made in handling the claim contributed to what was naturally 
an already highly stressful set of circumstances for Mrs B.
UKI offered Mrs B £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused. I appreciate why Mrs B feels very strongly 
about matters, and Im very sorry to read of the experience shes had. For this she of 
course, has my natural sympathy. But in the circumstances, I think what UKI have 
offered is fair and reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused  
and is line with what our service would expect.
I have power to require businesses to compensate for loss or material distress or
inconvenience, and to direct a business to act in relation to an individual. However, I 
dont have the ability to order a business to change its practices or systems in a more 
general way. So, while I appreciate Mrs Bs desire to prevent someone else having a 
similar experience in future, I am unable to consider this aspect. 
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
