DRN-1490635
Complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1997. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld in respect of the mis-sold PPI. 
She thought the offer Lloyds had made Mr B to pay back some of the commission it received 
from his PPI premiums was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with that view. He said he didnt know he had a PPI policy and if he did, he 
would have made a claim when hed been made redundant in 1999. He said that in the 
1990s, he wasnt financially secure and so he wouldnt have made the choice to buy a PPI 
policy because it wasnt the cheapest way to borrow money. He told us that Lloyds had 
upheld other PPI complaints without question. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Neither party can say how the PPI was sold. Mr B very candidly said he couldnt remember. 
It was also unclear how it was sold from the records Lloyds provided to us. In that event, Ive 
treated the sale as an advised sale. Doing so puts more responsibility on Lloyds to make 
sure that the cover was suitable for Mr Bs needs. 
In addition to that, Lloyds said it couldnt say precisely when the cover was sold. Mr B told us 
it was in 1997. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B is wrong in what he said on this 
point. I think its most likely that the policy was sold to Mr B at the same time as he applied 
for his credit card in 1997. And so I have proceeded on that basis. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Mr B would have known the PPI policy was optional 
and that he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Mr Bs case is that he didnt know he had 
cover and so it must follow that the cover was added to his credit card without his consent.
I havent seen a copy of the exact application form that Mr B completed. But I have been 
given a sample of the applications Lloyds used at that time. I think its most likely that if the 
cover was sold during a meeting, that the questions Mr B was asked would have followed 
what was written on the application form. 
From that application form, I can see Mr B would have had to make an active selection for 
PPI to be included. And I think it is most likely that this box would have been ticked for the 
policy to be added to the credit card. I appreciate Mr B said he didnt know anything about the PPI and Ive given particular 
thought to what he said about not making a claim when he was made redundant in 1999. I 
want to make clear that I dont doubt that what Mr B told us is what he honestly remembers 
about that time. But I do note that Mr B said he was out of work for only a short period of 
time and that could be why a claim would not have been successful. 
I have been provided with copies with some of Mr Bs credit card statements and I can see 
from there that the PPI premiums are set out. I think if Mr B hadnt known about the PPI 
policy, he would have queried those charges at the time. The evidence before me doesnt 
suggest he did. 
With all of those things in mind, on balance, I think that Mr B was probably aware of the PPI 
cover and also that he could have refused it if he wanted to. 
As I said above, Ive treated this as an advised sale. To help me decide whether the cover 
was suitable for Mr Bs needs, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive looked at 
what we know about Mr Bs personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if he had to make a claim on the policy that 10% of Mr Bs credit card balance 
would have been repaid every month for a maximum of 12 months if he became unwell or if 
he lost his job. Mr B told us that he would have received between three and six-months sick 
pay if he was off work. So it follows that the PPI would have lasted for longer than the pay he 
would have received from work. Mr B also told us that he didnt have any other means with 
which to make repayments if he couldnt work. 
I understand that Mr B was in good health when he bought this cover. And so I dont think 
any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions would have applied to him. I havent 
seen anything unusual about his personal circumstances that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think the cover probably was suitable for Mr B. 
Having said that, Lloyds also had to make sure that it gave Mr B enough information about 
the cover so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I can see 
how that information could have been clearer on the application form. And so it follows that 
the person who sold the policy could have probably also been clearer. But Ive set out above 
how the cover could have been helpful to Mr B if he couldnt work. So I dont think he would 
have changed his mind even if hed been given more or better information.
I know that Mr B has reiterated that his complaints about PPI that was sold alongside some 
Lloyds loans were upheld. I can see why he may think it is contradictory for us to say this 
complaint should not be upheld. I cant obviously say why the outcome for his dispute about 
the loans was different because I dont have any information about that. What I would say is 
that each case depends on its own set of facts. So while Mr Bs personal circumstances may 
have been the same, the type of policy and the terms and conditions could have been very 
different. 
But as I said above, Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because it got 
a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman