DRN-3842835
The complaint
X complains about Bank of Scotland plcs response to her attempts to recover money shed 
paid using her Halifax credit card for a holiday that didnt go ahead.
What happened
In December 2019 X made a holiday booking through a third party travel agent R. She paid 
a deposit and flight supplement totalling £2,580 using her Halifax credit card. The holiday 
package comprised flights and a cruise with separate individual providers, scheduled to take 
place in October 2020. The balance  a little over £6,000  was due at the end of May 2020. 
But after X made her booking, the Covid 19 pandemic began to have an impact on daily life 
 including holiday arrangements such as X had planned.
X contacted R in mid-May 2020 to ask for her deposit back, saying that as a result of the 
pandemic R was unable to provide a safe package holiday. She cited her age, UK 
government advice and the uncertain and concerning nature of the pandemic reports from 
the holiday destination. X referenced provisions within The Package Travel and Linked 
Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (Package Travel Regulations).
R wasnt willing to return Xs deposit and said that the contract was still capable of going 
ahead. It did however offer to extend the balance due date until the end of June (and later 
mid-July), or to rebook the holiday for 2021. X didnt want to do this and maintained that she 
was seeking to terminate the booking and get a refund. She also raised a question with R 
over the fairness of certain of its terms, which R disputed.
X then sought to recover her money from Halifax as her card provider using the connected 
lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
However, Halifax didnt think thered been any misrepresentation or breach of contract that 
would give rise to a section 75 liability.
Although X was unhappy with Halifaxs response and raised a complaint, the card provider 
wasnt minded to change its stance. It acknowledged shortcomings in its service, as it had 
wrongly addressed correspondence in relation to Xs claim. The bank paid X £30 for the 
inconvenience caused by this. X remained dissatisfied and referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly in reaching its decision to decline to 
meet Xs claim. She said there was no evidence of misrepresentation, and that the retention 
of the deposit was in accordance with the contract X had entered into and not contrary to the 
Package Travel Regulations. As section 75 is limited to claims in misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, the investigator wasnt persuaded Halifax had a liability towards X.
X responded to ask for a review of her complaint. In doing so she sought to draw my 
attention to representations shed made including the July 2021 submission setting out the 
case facts, and her correspondence with R with particular regard both to aspects of fairness 
of terms and to the Package Travel Regulations. X felt these hadnt been fully considered by 
our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal firstly with the question of whether the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangements are in place, as this is a key requirement of section 75. It is clear that X had a 
contractual relationship with R, through whom she made her booking arrangements. She 
made her payment to R using credit supplied by Halifax. And given that the holiday meets 
the definition of a package travel arrangement, R carries a performance obligation 
notwithstanding that it might not itself be the supplier of the flights or the cruise.
In terms of the arrangements with R then, there is no question that they were funded by a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement involving X and Halifax, or that the financial limits 
applicable to section 75 have been met. Halifax appears to have recognised this and 
responded to the merits of Xs claim.
X has said that Halifax initially did so on the basis that there was no contractual obligation to 
supply the cruise once X made the decision not to pay the balance when due. Be that as it 
may, Halifaxs stated position in its correspondence is that there was no breach of contract 
or misrepresentation on Rs part for which Halifax could be held liable.
Im conscious as to Xs reasons for not wanting to make the balance payment at a time when 
it was uncertain whether the holiday would go ahead at all. I can understand her reluctance 
to pay out more money at that stage, when many travel providers had suspended their 
operations. However, at the point at which X was having her conversations with R, there was 
no suspension that covered the scheduled date of Xs holiday. X might have anticipated that 
R might have had difficulty, in the face of the pandemic, to provide the cruise in accordance 
with the contract. But that didnt oblige R to waive Xs obligation to pay the balance when 
due, or to return her deposit.
Its perhaps worth noting the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) Frequently 
Asked Questions on travelling during Coronavirus, which while not providing a definitive 
legal position does offer a useful indication of consumer rights in this area. This can be found 
on the ABTA website. It says:
I dont see how my holiday can go ahead, should I still pay the remaining balance?
You do not have to pay the remaining balance for your holiday if you do not want to 
go. However, if you decide not to pay the final balance of your holiday, before it has 
been officially cancelled by the company, then you will need to pay the cancellation 
charges attributed to your booking. This could mean loss of deposit and/or any 
monies paid thus far.
Each company will have their own process for managing future departures and will 
be contacting customers due to travel imminently. Some travel companies are 
experiencing operational delays with collecting payments that are due, as a result of 
their staff working remotely or being made redundant. If youre unable to get through 
to pay your balance then please email the travel company and wait for their response 
 it is unlikely they will cancel the holiday if you have made attempts to pay.
Remember for package holidays that are eventually cancelled by the company, then 
you will only be due a full refund if you have an active booking at the time of 
cancellation. So, if you fail to pay the final balance of your holiday you will [sic] 
voiding your right to a refund at a later stage.This would appear to reflect the position in the booking terms X accepted.
Nor was the situation at that time in my view sufficient to trigger any right X had to terminate 
the contract and receive a full refund of any payments under Part 3, section 12 of the 
Package Travel Regulations. This says that the right arises in the event of unavoidable and 
extraordinary circumstances occurring at the place of destination or its immediate vicinity 
and which significantly affect (a) the performance of the package, or (b) the carriage of 
passengers to the destination.
I understand the point X sought to make but I cant agree that circumstances occurring at the 
destination in May 2020 would at that particular time be reasonably considered to be likely to 
significantly affect performance of a package due for performance several months later. 
While X has referred to the legal concept of anticipatory breach, that isnt what was 
happening in this situation. R did not indicate its intention to fail to fulfil its contractual 
obligations to X; indeed, R was explicit in stating it still intended to meet its obligations.
It is difficult to see how a claim either that there was a breach of contract because the cruise 
didnt ultimately go ahead after Rs obligation to perform the contract ceased, or because the 
deposit was improperly retained, could be successful. Ive not seen any persuasive 
argument to demonstrate that Rs terms have been deemed unfair on the basis cited by X.
Thats not to say that I consider the terms fair. I simply dont find theres enough evidence to 
enable me to say that Halifax should have treated application of the deposit terms as a 
breach on the basis that they were unfair. It remains open to X to take up this aspect further 
with R if she wishes to do so.
While the complaint hasnt specifically been brought in relation to chargeback, for the sake of 
completeness I should add that I cant see a chargeback claim brought on similar grounds 
would be any more likely to recover Xs payment, for reasons similar to those Ive already 
mentioned.
I want to make clear that none of what Ive said should be viewed as any criticism of X. As 
Ive said, I can entirely understand why she was concerned about travelling and why she 
didnt want to pay further money given the possibility of her holiday not going ahead. But 
understanding why she made that decision doesnt enable me to say that R, or by extension 
Halifax, was in breach of contract by not refunding her deposit.
I am conscious that it subsequently transpired that H suspended sailing operations including 
the scheduled date of Xs cruise. Its most unfortunate that, had X made the balance 
payment, she would subsequently most likely have been entitled to recover her payment in 
full. Im afraid, though, that this doesnt mean that I can fairly require Halifax to make good 
her loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman