DRN-4414383
The complaint
Mr D complained because Starling Bank Limited refused to refund him for transactions he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
On 12 May 2023, Mr D contacted Starling by chat. He said there were 8 debit card 
transactions on his account, totalling £6,026, which he hadnt authorised. These took place 
between 11.47 pm on 11 May and 3.15 am on 12 May.  They amounts varied between £345 
and £1,980. 
Starling stopped Mr Ds card and issued a new one. It investigated, and asked Mr D 
questions about the circumstances. It told Mr D that the transactions had been made using 
Mr Ds card and his correct PIN.
In various chat messages over the next few days, Mr D told Starling that his last genuine 
transaction had been for petrol on 10 May, and that hed only realised his card was missing 
on the day after the disputed transactions. He said he hadnt given anyone his PIN or written 
it down. The only way he could think someone had obtained it was at a cash machine on 6 
May when hed withdrawn £20 cash, and he thought that someone might have seen him 
enter his PIN at that time, or he said his card might have been cloned. He said it was 
possible hed lost his card at the gym which was near the cash machine which hed used on 
6 May.
On 18 May, Starling told Mr D that it had reviewed his claim and couldn't find any evidence 
to support fraudulent activity, so it wouldnt refund the transactions. It suggested he should 
contact the merchants direct.
Mr D asked how on earth Starling could not determine this to be fraud. He asked whether 
Starling had checked the amounts and the fact that multiple high value payments had been 
taken without his knowledge in the middle of the night. He complained.
Starlings final response didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it wouldnt disclose 
details of its investigation, because of security. But it had found no evidence to suggest 
fraudulent activity, so it couldnt refund him. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said that all the transactions had been 
completed using Mr Ds genuine card and correct PIN, and there was no clear point of 
compromise for his PIN. She said it wasnt plausible that the transactions had been 
completed without Mr Ds knowledge.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said over £6,000 had been spent in three hours between midnight 
and 3am, at locations four hours away from his home. He said the card wasnt in his 
possession and he hadnt agreed to the transactions. Mr D said the bank should have 
blocked the transactions as he hadnt previously spent more than £200 in any transaction. 
Mr D said that he hadnt disclosed his PIN, though he had had the same PIN for all his 
cards. He said the incident and Starlings response had been shattering, and he thought he 
would go to his MP and the press as he had never received such an injustice. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Mr D, or a third party without his consent, 
authorised the payments.
The technical evidence shows that it was Mr Ds genuine debit card which was used. It also 
shows that authentication was carried out using his correct PIN.  There are 10,000 possible 
combinations of a four-digit number, so its unlikely that anyone else could have guessed Mr 
Ds PIN correctly. The technical evidence also shows the names of the businesses, and type 
of business, to which the payments were made.
Mr D suggested that someone could have looked over his shoulder when he used at a 
supermarket cash machine on 6 May. That was some days before the first disputed 
transaction late at night on 11 May. Mr D also said that he might have lost his card at a gym 
near the supermarket. But he also made an undisputed petrol purchase on 10 May. Its not 
likely that someone would have looked over his shoulder on 6 May at the supermarket cash 
machine, then the same person would have obtained his card after the petrol purchase 
elsewhere on 10 May. 
And fraudsters usually carry out as many transactions as possible, as quickly as possible, to 
maximise their gain. The disputed transactions took place over three hours, which wouldnt 
be usual for a fraud.  And although they totalled over £6,000, there was still over £1,000 
remaining in Mr Ds account. I think its unlikely any fraudster would have left this amount 
untouched.
Ive considered Mr Ds argument that the transactions took place in a city around four hours 
travelling time from where he lived. But I dont think thats relevant, because Mr D might 
have travelled to that city for a visit.
Ive also considered Mr Ds argument that Starling should have blocked the transactions as 
he hadnt previously spent more than £200 in any transaction. Ive looked at his statements 
from November 2022 onwards, and certainly most transactions were relatively low value, 
though there are a small number over £200. Banks do monitor accounts and payments 
made or received, to counter various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing frauds and scams. 
In some circumstances, banks also take additional steps before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But to balance 
against this, they also have a responsibility to process payments in line with customers 
genuine instructions. Its arguable whether Starling should have intervened when the final 
payments were made here. But if it had done so, I dont think intervention would have made 
any difference in the circumstances of this case. Thats because I think its more likely than 
not that Mr D authorised the payments himself, for the reasons above.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman