DRN-2283319
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the information Black Horse Limited recorded on his credit file after 
he voluntarily terminated his finance agreement. He says this resulted in his mortgage 
application being declined.
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Ltd in 2014. In 2016 he 
voluntarily terminated the agreement.
In 2019, Mr C applied for a mortgage with his preferred provider. He says he completed all 
the information for a decision in principle and says he should have been eligible for the 
mortgage. He was declined and says his mortgage broker contacted the mortgage provider 
and was told his application was refused due to undisclosed credit commitments. Mr C says 
he had disclosed all of his active credit commitments. He then checked his credit file and 
realised that his agreement with Black Horse was recorded as settled but instead of having a 
zero balance it had a balance of £3,538.
Mr C contacted Black Horse. Black Horse said an administrative error had been made and it 
would amend Mr Cs credit file through an urgent update which would take three working 
days. It also provided Mr C with a letter which he could show to the mortgage provider 
confirming the update had been processed and that the balance should be zero. Black 
Horse offered Mr C £300 compensation for the upset caused. 
Mr C didnt accept the compensation offer. He said that his preferred mortgage provider 
wouldnt accept another application and as he needed to secure a mortgage quickly he had 
to use another provider. This resulted in him receiving a lower cash back amount and paying 
a higher rate of interest. Mr C says that using the alternative mortgage provider cost him an 
additional £1,726.93.
Black Horse said the actions it had taken were reasonable and didnt accept that it was liable 
for the additional costs Mr C had quoted.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the information recorded by Black Horse was the only reason why Mr Cs mortgage 
application was declined. She said that Black Horse acknowledged the error on Mr Cs credit 
file and did all it could to assist him in securing his preferred mortgage. Ultimately it was the 
mortgage providers decision not to lend. Our investigator thought the compensation offered 
by Black Horse of £300 was reasonable.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said it was clear from the information that the 
only undisclosed credit commitment was the outstanding balance incorrectly recorded by 
Black Horse and that he met all the eligibility criteria of his preferred mortgage provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Following the voluntary termination of Mr Cs agreement with Black Horse, it updated 
Mr Cs credit file to show the agreement had been settled but due to an 
administrative error the balance wasnt reduced to zero. When Mr C became aware 
of this he contacted Black Horse. At this time, we would expect Black Horse to act to 
correct any error. 
Black Horse said that Mr C called it on 28 June 2019. It accepted the error and 
processed an urgent update for Mr Cs credit file to be amended to show a zero 
balance. It also provided Mr C with a letter dated 28 June 2019 explaining that there 
should have been no outstanding balance recorded on Mr Cs credit file and that 
Mr Cs credit file would be updated within three days. I find that when Black Horse 
was made aware of the error it acted in a timely way and did all it could to correct the 
mistake and assist Mr C with his mortgage application.
When a mistake has been made, we would expect the consumer to be put back in 
the position they would have been had the mistake not happened. Mr Cs credit file 
was amended but Mr C says the issue cost him over £1,700. For me to say that 
Black Horse was liable for the additional costs Mr C incurred by using an alternative 
mortgage provider I would need to be able to show that the only reason why Mr Cs 
application to his preferred mortgage provider was declined was the balance amount 
incorrectly recorded by Black Horse.
I have looked through Mr Cs credit file and the other information provided. I can see 
he had other credit commitments at time and while I note Mr Cs comments that 
these were all disclosed, I cannot say for certain that the only reason this application 
was declined was due to the balance recorded by Black Horse.
Mr C said his mortgage broker was told the reason for the decline was due to 
undisclosed credit commitments and he had disclosed all those that were on his 
credit file at the time, aside from the incorrect Black Horse balance. Unfortunately, 
the call with this information hasnt been located and the preferred mortgage provider 
wasnt able to find evidence of a call to the mortgage broker at that time on the 
numbers provided. Therefore, I cannot say for sure what, if anything, was discussed 
regarding the reason for the decline. 
Mr C made his application to his preferred mortgage provider on 26 June 2019. The 
mortgage Mr C secured is recorded on his credit file as starting on 23 September 
2019. As Mr C was provided with a letter from Black Horse dated 28 June 2019, this 
was available for consideration by his preferred mortgage provider before he took out 
his alternative mortgage. Mr C has said his preferred provider wouldnt discuss 
another application. Unfortunately as this was only at the decision in principle stage 
there is nothing further to show if and why the preferred mortgage provider didnt 
consider a new application. However, if this was the case, it was the choice of the 
mortgage provider and I cannot hold Black Horse responsible for this as it had 
provided the correct information at that time.
In summary, I do not find I have enough evidence to say the balance amount 
recorded by Black horse was the sole reason why Mr Cs application was declined. A 
lender will have its own criteria for deciding whether to lend and I cannot say for sure 
that had the balance on the settled Black Horse agreement been recorded as zero at the time of his application that this would have meant the decision in principle would 
have been agreed. 
Mr C thinks that he should be compensated for the difference between the cashback 
amounts and interest rates on the mortgage he did get and the one he had initially 
applied for. However, it was Mr Cs decision to go with an alternative lender and as 
Black Horse took the action I would expect in amending Mr Cs credit file and 
providing him with a supporting letter to present to his preferred lender, I do not find it 
reasonable to hold Black Horse liable for any additional costs Mr C incurred when he 
agreed to an alternative lender.
I accept this issue has caused Mr C distress and inconvenience but as I find that 
Black Horse took reasonable action once it was aware of the issue and that it did all it 
could at that time to support Mr C, I think its offer of £300 compensation is 
reasonable.
While I appreciate this issue has been upsetting for Mr C, based on the information I have I 
do not find that Black Horse is required to do anything further than it has already done and 
offered. 
Putting things right
Black Horse has already amended Mr Cs credit file and provided him with a letter to show to 
his preferred mortgage provider. It also offered to pay Mr C £300 compensation. If this 
payment hasnt already been made, Black Horse should pay this to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limiteds offer of £300 compensation is reasonable. 
This amount should be paid to Mr C if this hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman