DRN-2868859
The complaint
Ms J complains Unum Ltd unfairly declined her income protection claim.
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Ms J, but for ease, I will refer to all 
representations as having been made by Ms J herself. 
What happened
Ms J was a member of her employers income protection scheme held with Unum. The 
policy is designed to pay a benefit after a deferred period of 26 weeks, in the event that the 
member is incapacitated due to illness or injury. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows.
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied they are: 
Unable by reason of their illness of injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are 
Not performing any occupation
And the following is stated regarding the 26 week deferred period. 
Monthly benefit payments become payable when a members incapacity continues 
past the end of the deferred period. 
The policy terms and user guide set out the following in relation to the requirements for Ms 
Js employer to notify Unum of claims. 
When to tell us about a claim
You can submit a claim as soon as you anticipate a problem. The earlier we are told 
about an absence, the earlier we can identify any support we can provide. It will also 
ensure we are ready to pay benefit at the end of the deferred period.
Claim notification
You must provide us with a completed employer claim form and a completed 
employee claim form before a member has been incapacitated for: 
10 weeks for deferred periods of 26 weeks or more.
Late notification
If we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period (but less than 90 days 
later) we have the right to pay benefit from the date we receive the notice. 
If we are notified of a claim later we have the right not to pay benefit. 
If we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period, our ability to 
manage the absence and assess the claim may be affected. 
Ms J became absent from work in January 2018, due to anxiety and depression. She was 
absent throughout the deferred period, which ended in mid-July 2018. And she was certified 
unfit to work by her GP during this time. 
GP records 
January 2018
Ms J reported feeling low and anxious for more than a year as well as feeling panicked, 
unable to function at work and having suicidal thoughts. The GP noted Ms J was trembling 
and tearful and he prescribed Propranolol and Sertraline. 
February 2018 
The GP noted the medication had improved Ms Js mood. Shed reported she was still 
struggling to make decisions or cope with problems, but was benefitting from the medication. 
Her thoughts of suicide were almost completely gone, but she was still anxious. The GP 
prescribed Diazepam in addition to the other medications. 
April 2018
The GP noted Ms J was still anxious and shaky but her mood had improved further. And the 
medication taken in the evening had stopped panic attacks which had been severe when Ms 
J tried to go out. The GP noted Ms J intended to return to psychological therapies and 
prescribed Buspirone. 
Around three weeks later the GP noted Ms J had attempted to return to work but couldnt. 
Shed had suicidal thoughts again and was struggling to leave the house. She was having 
counselling and seeking psychological therapy via the NHS. The GP issued a referral letter 
for Ms J to have Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) privately. 
June 2018
Ms J had again attempted to return to work but had been unsuccessful. She told the GP she 
had bought a dog which was helping her to go out and speak to people. And that she was 
due to start CBT. The GP noted Ms J was still anxious and shaky, but more accepting of 
herself. 
September 2018
There is a record of a phone call where it was noted Ms J had said she was always 
exhausted and her anxiety wasnt improving. Shed decided not to continue with CBT, but 
was still having counselling. 
December 2018
Ms J didnt meet with her GP again until December. There are records in the GP notes of 
unsuccessful attempts to contact Ms J by phone in September and November. In early December the GP notes reflect Ms J was having counselling, feels is doing very 
well, better. 
Psychiatrist report 
Ms J saw a consultant psychiatrist  Dr B  in April 2018. His report stated Ms J had been 
suffering with anxiety and depression. He noted she had reported feeling depressed for a 
number of years, and had recent anxiety attacks. He said she was anxious and had low self-
esteem. He also noted she had no active thoughts of self-harm and no evidence of 
psychosis. He recommended Ms J continue on sertraline and diazepam.
Ms J provided a further report from Dr B in May 2019, in which he gave further details of his 
assessment of Ms J in April the year before. 
Dr B said hed consulted with Ms J via an app and then face to face and said hed diagnosed 
severe anxiety and depression. He said Ms J had been afraid of her future, and referenced 
her being terrified of going out alone and finding activities of day to day living terrifying. He 
also said her attention and concentration were affected and she had trouble dealing with 
strangers, answering the phone and opening letters. 
Ms Js employer submitted an income protection claim to Unum in November 2018, several 
months after the deferred period had ended. And after some delays, Unum declined the 
claim in June 2019. It said the medical records had been limited in support of Ms Js 
functional impairment throughout the deferred period. And the late notification of the claim 
meant Unum had been unable to establish that there were clear restrictions and limitations 
arising from Ms Js illness. 
Ms J and her employer appealed the claim decision and complained. Unum said it had 
reviewed the claim again. It said it thought the medical evidence showed some restrictions 
and limitations during some of the deferred period, but due to the late notification of the 
claim, it had been unable to substantiate that Ms J was incapacitated throughout.
Unum said Ms Js employer hadnt made it aware of the claim and the reasons it would be 
submitted late. And it said if it had done so, it could have offered support to Ms J in 
completing the forms. Unum also apologised for delays in its investigation of the claim.   
Unhappy with Unums response, Ms J brought her complaint to this service. She provided a 
new report from her GP, detailing the symptoms she had been experiencing the previous 
year. 
Unum reviewed the new report, and said it didnt think it made a difference. It said it thought 
the report had been written retrospectively for the purpose of the claim, and didnt correlate 
with the GP records made during the deferred period. 
Ms J also said Unum had failed to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 
2010. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
I dont think Unum has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why.My assessment here is not based on whether Ms J has been unwell, but rather Ive 
looked at whether I think the medical evidence supports that she met the definition of 
incapacity set out in the policy, and for the duration of the deferred period. 
Unums medical officers have said they think the medical evidence shows 
psychological distress which may have caused functional limitations during the earlier 
part of the deferred period. However, Unum said there is limited evidence for the later 
part of the deferred period, which was up until the middle of July 2018, so it was 
unable to confirm that her incapacity had continued beyond April 2018. 
Ms J didnt have any further appointments with the psychiatrist after April 2018. And 
her appointments with her GP became more infrequent after this time. There was 
only one further face to face appointment with the GP before the end of the deferred 
period. This was in June, and aside from stating Ms J was anxious and shaky and 
still unable to return to work, no severe symptoms were noted. The GP recorded that 
Ms J had bought a dog and was starting to go out and speak to people. And I think 
its fair to say that this would indicate Ms J was making some improvements, when 
compared to the content of the GP notes, and the psychiatrists report, from April. 
Unum has said the lack of further medical evidence after April 2018 has meant it was 
unable to ascertain whether or not Ms J continued to be experiencing symptoms 
which caused functional limitations preventing her from working. And its noted the 
records from her GP appointment in December 2018 show by that time, Ms J was 
feeling better. Having reviewed the medical evidence, I think Unums assessment 
here was fair. In making an incapacity claim, Ms J has to show that she has met the 
policy terms throughout the deferred period. 
Unum has said it would have wanted to obtain further evidence around Ms Js 
functions and limitations in the latter part of the deferred period, but it was unable to 
do so due to the late notification of the claim, and this prejudiced its position. In these 
particular circumstances, I think thats reasonable. The policy terms state the claim 
should have been submitted before 10 weeks into the deferred period. But Unum 
received the claim documents, from Ms Js employer, over four months after the 26 
week deferred period had ended. 
Im aware Ms J has said she was unable to complete the forms sooner due to her 
illness, and I accept this. But Ive also considered that Ms Js employer could have 
notified Unum of the claim during the deferred period, and of the reasons the claim 
would be submitted late. Also, Unum said if Ms Js employer made it aware of the 
claim, and the difficulties Ms J was having in completing her sections of the claim 
forms, it would have provided support to her. 
Ms J completed her forms in early September 2018, but her employer didnt submit 
the full claim to Unum until some considerable time later on 23 November 2018. 
Considering the deferred period had already ended in July, I would have expected 
the claim to have been submitted to Unum as soon as possible at this stage, as the 
only reason for the delay Ive been made aware of, was Ms Js prior inability to 
complete her forms as the employee. As Ive said, Unum didnt receive the claim until 23 November 2018, and Ive taken 
into consideration the notes recorded by Ms Js GP in early December 2018, showing 
that her condition had improved and she was feeling better. Because of this, I think 
there would have been little value in Unum instructing any further reports or 
assessments at that time, as these would most likely not have been reflective of Ms 
Js capabilities during the deferred period.
Ms J provided a retrospective report from her GP about her symptoms during the 
deferred period. However, I think this carries significantly less weight than the 
contemporaneous records noted by the GP she met with during 2018. And so I think 
it was reasonable that Unum didnt change its decision in light of this evidence.
Ive explained above that I dont think Unums assessment of the medical evidence 
was unfair. Had Unum been informed of the claim earlier, Im persuaded it would 
have attempted to obtain further contemporaneous reports on Ms Js condition. And, 
if it thought it necessary, it could have referred Ms J for an examination to assess 
how her illness was preventing her from working. Overall, Im satisfied Ms J hasnt 
sufficiently evidenced that she was incapacitated throughout the entirety of the 
deferred period. 
Im aware Unum caused delays in completing its assessment of the claim and 
providing its decision to Ms Js employer. Unum has already apologised for this, and I 
think this is sufficient in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Unum to do anything 
further here. 
When asking for a final decision, Ms J said she believes her mental health condition 
would be classified as a disability under the Equality Act 2010 (EqA). And she said 
Unum had a duty to make reasonable adjustments, as her condition meant she had 
trouble attending medical appointments.  
Its not within my power to make a finding about whether the actions of a business 
amount to discrimination  or whether Unum has breached the EqA - thats an issue 
for the Courts. However, even if Ms Js condition is likely to amount to a disability as 
defined by the EqA and so the EqA is a relevant consideration here, I dont think 
Unum has handled Ms Js claim unfairly. 
As Ive explained above, I accept there was a delay in Ms J completing her claim 
forms due to her illness. However, there was a further delay in her employer 
submitting her application. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the delay by her 
employer was related to Ms Js condition. As such, I dont think it was unfair for 
Unum to conclude that the date the claim was submitted, somewhat impacted its 
ability to assess it.  
Unum has said it wasnt made aware that Ms J was having difficulty completing her 
forms. Ive got no reason to doubt that it would have offered her support as it says it 
would have done. And this is what I would reasonably expect it to do in those 
circumstances. Ive taken on board the reasons Ms J has given for having not had further medical 
appointments and reviews during the deferred period. But I dont think Unum has 
acted unreasonably by taking into account the absence of medical evidence for part 
of the deferred period, when considering whether Ms J met the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the entirety of that period. And as Ive explained above, I dont 
think Unum has unfairly concluded that the medical evidence for the latter part of the 
deferred period sufficiently supported Ms Js incapacity claim. To ask Unum to waive 
the requirement for this evidence in this case, in my opinion, would not be fair or 
reasonable.
Nothing Ive seen leads me to think Ms J has been put to a disadvantage by the way 
in which Unum went about assessing her claim, or applying the definition of 
incapacity, compared with those who dont live with the same medical condition. And 
Ive seen nothing which causes me to think that had Ms J had a physical impairment, 
she wouldve been treated differently and that her claim would have been paid. Im 
not persuaded that Unum shouldve reasonably done anything more in this case, 
when considering the overall medical evidence against the definition of incapacity. 
And as I said above, when making a claim under the policy, its for Ms J to establish 
that she met the policy definition of being incapacitated throughout the deferred 
period.
The response to my provisional decision
Unum responded to my provisional decision and said it didnt challenge the findings. 
 
Ms J disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary she said: 
she may have been disadvantaged by her employer not being fully cooperative, and 
Unum failed to address this;
the lack of further appointments and medical evidence was due to her being too 
unwell to engage further; 
Unum didnt seek any further medical evidence to support the claim and this was to 
its advantage;
no reasonable adjustments have been made by Unum;
Unums apology for the delay it caused is insufficient; and
someone in her position would never be able to make a successful claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response.
Ms J has said she may have been disadvantaged by the actions of her employer. This isnt 
something I can reasonably hold Unum accountable for. Ms Js employer is the policyholder. 
And if she feels it failed to provide her with the policy documents, or other information and 
delayed her claim, this is something she would need to address with her employer directly. 
Whilst I understand and accept what Ms J has said about being too unwell to attend further 
appointments with medical professionals during the later part of the deferred period, this 
doesnt change my mind on the outcome of the claim. Unum is entitled to rely on the medical 
evidence available. And in making a claim, it is Ms Js responsibility to provide evidence of 
her incapacity. And I still think it was fair for Unum to place more weight on the contemporaneous medical evidence, rather than the retrospective report completed some 
time later. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Unum said it would have wanted to obtain further 
evidence around Ms Js functions and limitations in the latter part of the deferred period. But 
it was unable to do so because of the late notification of the claim. And I still think thats 
reasonable in these circumstances. There was a significant delay in Unum being notified of 
the claim, so any assessment Unum could have instructed wouldnt have been able to 
assess Ms Js condition during the period relevant to the claim.
Im sorry to hear of Ms Js financial difficulties. She has said the time Unum took to assess 
the claim impacted this. Whilst I appreciate this delay was unhelpful to Ms J, ultimately her 
claim wasnt paid. So I think the financial difficulties she experienced are related more to the 
fact that her claim was declined, rather than the delay by Unum in assessing it. So I wont be 
asking Unum to do anything further in respect of this.  
Ms J has said she thinks anyone in her position would be unable to make a successful claim, 
due to her illness and living as a single person. But Im not sufficiently persuaded that this is 
the case. As I explained in my provisional decision, as the policyholder, Ms Js employer was 
responsible for notifying Unum of the claim and the reasons for the delay in submitting it.  
And Im satisfied Unum would have provided additional support to Ms J, as it has said it 
would have done, had it been made aware of the situation. 
Ms J also said Unum didnt make any reasonable adjustments for her. Ive not seen that any 
reasonable adjustments were requested of Unum and declined. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, its not within my power to make a finding about whether Unum has 
breached the EqA - thats an issue for the Courts.
The points Ms J has raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman