DRN-1060881
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) was irresponsible to lend her money.
What happened
Myjar provided five loans to Ms G. Heres a loan table showing further details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/01/2017 25/07/2017 6 £350.00 £112.04
2 26/07/2017 25/01/2018 6 £500.00 £149.70
3 29/01/2018 27/03/2018 3 £500.00 £241.08
4 11/05/2018 24/08/2018 3 £200.00 £110.03
5 27/09/2018 Balance Outstanding 6 £500.00 £151.40
 
Ms G said that she found herself in a payday loan cycle of spiralling debt which she was 
unable to get out of. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Gs complaint. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Myjar to have provided loans 1 - 4 to Ms G, but he thought Myjar shouldnt have 
given her loan 5. Our adjudicator felt that by loan 5, Ms Gs overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. Our adjudicator set out 
the steps he thought Myjar should do to put things right.  
Myjar disagreed and mainly said its checks were proportionate and it wasnt certain that our 
adjudicator had looked at everything before coming to his view. So the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Ms G could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms G. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks on Ms Gs credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Myjar to give Ms G loans 1 - 4 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings. At this stage in the 
lending relationship, broadly speaking I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to 
lend. Ms G hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to the 
first four loans, so I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Ms G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 5. I say this because:
at this point Myjar ought to have realised Ms G was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. This was Ms Gs fifth loan in around 20 months with only limited gaps in 
between loansso when she asked for loan 5, I think Myjar ought to have known that Ms G wasnt 
likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need
Ms G wasnt making any inroads into the amount she owed Myjar  although the 
amounts borrowed had varied, loan 5 was for significantly more than shed taken out 
on loan 1, and it was the third time shed borrowed this amount. I think Myjar ought to 
have realised it was likely that Ms G was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances each time and that Ms Gs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
I think that Ms G lost out when Myjar provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
and she paid a lot of interest to service this debt
the length of time over which Ms G borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Ms Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5.
Putting things right
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
 A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 5, and treat any 
repayments made by Ms G as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B) If this results in Ms G having made overpayments then this surplus should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be used 
to repay any balance remaining on loan 5. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should 
be paid to Ms G. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Myjar should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms G.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Gs borrowing by loan 5 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so Myjar should remove this loan entirely from Ms Gs credit file - or if 
necessary, ask any third party debt owner to do the same. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint about loan 5. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman