DRN-3400582
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Harvey & Thompson Limited (trading as H&T pawnbrokers) allowed 
her to take out loans when she was the victim of a scam and was clearly vulnerable.
What happened
Ms H has said around June 2020 she met someone online she entered into a romantic 
relationship with. This person, who turned out to be a scammer, told her he needed her to 
send money to his sick family members in another country. Around six months after they 
started speaking she says the scammer started to threaten and intimidate her into sending 
money by claiming he had family members in government organisations and she would be in 
danger if she refused his requests for money.
Throughout the course of the scam Ms H took out two short term loans with H&T, pledging 
jewellery in order to secure them. The loans were for £2,000 and £4,700, both taken out in 
February 2021 around 10 days apart. Shortly after obtaining the money from H&T, she used 
an in store money transfer service to send the money to the scammer.
Ms H has said H&T ought to have recognised she was vulnerable due to being the victim of 
a scam and stopped her taking out the loans. She wants H&T to return the items she 
pledged. H&T doesnt accept Ms H appeared vulnerable when she used its services. It said 
its staff are trained to spot behaviour that might indicate vulnerability and none was present 
in this case. It felt it has acted reasonably and the terms of the agreements she entered into 
have been fairly applied.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. As Ms H didnt accept this the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has explained she was vulnerable when she pledged her items and took out the loans 
with H&T because she was the victim of a scam. During this period she was being 
threatened and coerced into send money to the scammers and she feels H&T shouldve 
recognised this.
H&T doesnt have an ongoing or longstanding relationship with Ms H. Its only interactions 
were in branch on the occasions she took out the loans. So its assessment of how 
vulnerable she was were limited to how she presented in branch at the time. And, its ability 
to understand or identify whether Ms H was the victim of a scam was also limited to what 
she told it.
H&T has said its staff are trained to identify vulnerability in its customers as it accepts that 
due to the nature of its business it may encounter vulnerable people. In Ms Hs case it says 
its staff members recall interacting with her and talking to her about her children. Its also 
said staff recall her saying she was sending money to her family and that she sent the 
money she obtained from the loans using a money transfer service on the same premises.
Ms H has pointed out she doesnt have children so this information is inaccurate. And, when 
she was separately contacted by the money transfer service she used, she told it she was 
sending money to a friend rather than family. So I accept there may be some inconsistencies 
with this recollection. But I also have to bear in mind that Ms H wasnt sending money to a 
friend either and she was providing cover stories about her actions during this time. Shes 
explained shed been coached by the scammer to provide cover stories when making 
payments to them. 
So although I accept not all the facts mentioned by H&T staff are a true account of Ms Hs 
life, I dont think this means Ms H didnt say them or that this means I should discount H&T 
staff testimony altogether. Its clear she was providing cover stories at the time. And, it is 
accurate that Ms H sent the money from the loans using the money transfer service, so at 
least part of the testimony from H&T staff was accurate, even if some of the details arent.
Ms H has said she wouldve been visibly distressed when she took out the loans, but H&T 
has said it wouldve noticed if this was the case and it hasnt made any record of this. Nor do 
its staff recall seeing her in distress. Ms H has also told our service directly that it may be the 
case that when asked about the scam and her circumstances she may seem calm but this 
isnt necessarily an accurate reflection of her mental state.
Overall, taking into account H&Ts records from the time, the cover stories Ms H has said 
she was coached to provide and has provided in the case of other payments involved in the 
scam, and Ms Hs own testimony, I dont feel Ive seen sufficient evidence that she more 
than likely presented as vulnerable in branch when she took out the loans. As such, I dont 
think H&T reasonably ought to have known she was or that she was the victim of a scam or 
ought to have refused to loan her the money as she requested.
Im sorry to hear of what Ms H has been through and I can see how difficult it has been for 
her. But I dont think H&T has acted unreasonably in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
11 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman