DRN-3604015
The complaint
Mr N is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him about the exchange rate hed 
receive when he transferred funds from his foreign currency account to his bank account.
What happened
Mr N received a large transaction in euros into his foreign currency account with HSBC. He 
says he tried to transfer the funds to his bank account using online banking around June 
2021, but was unable to do so. He says he thought it was a technical glitch, so after a couple 
of weeks of attempting the transfer he tried to call HSBC, but didnt speak to anyone at that 
time.
In October 2021 Mr N visited a branch of HSBC to make the transfer. On 15 October 2021 a 
member of staff at the branch identified that his currency account had been made dormant in 
line with the terms and conditions of its use - and it was this that was preventing the transfer. 
They arranged for Mr Ns account to be reactivated. They told Mr N he should be able to 
complete the transfer online after three days, but Mr N says he still wasnt able to do this, so 
he went back to the branch on 19 October 2021. He spoke to an adviser to arrange the 
transfer and completed a transfer form which showed the exchange rate that would be used.
Mr N says he explained to the adviser that he wasnt able to read the small print on the form. 
He says he asked if he was receiving the best available exchange rate and the adviser said 
he was. The adviser wrote the sterling amount Mr N would receive into his bank account in a 
larger size on the form. Mr N signed the form to agree to the transfer.
Shortly afterwards Mr N contacted HSBC by phone about the exchange rate that was used 
for the transfer. He said he thought hed been misled about it being the best rate available. 
When he spoke to an adviser on the phone about the rate hed received he initially found her 
helpful, but said he felt that she changed her tone to become almost threatening when she 
heard he had a foreign accent. 
Mr N complained to HSBC. He said hed been misled about the exchange rate hed received 
being the best one available, and that hed been discriminated against by the adviser he 
spoke to because of his foreign and aspergers accent. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ns 
complaint so he brought it to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint. She didnt think HSBC had misled him about 
the exchange rate, and she also explained that she didnt think the adviser had treated him 
differently because of his accent or tone of voice, or that she changed her position on his 
complaint during the call. But she did think HSBC should have let Mr N know that his 
currency account was going to be made dormant. She asked HSBC to pay Mr N £300 for 
this, and they agreed.
Mr N remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint, so its now been passed to me 
for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont think HSBC misled Mr N when they told him he would be getting the best exchange 
rate. This is because, as the investigators explained, there was only one rate available to Mr 
N at the time he requested the transfer. So he couldnt have chosen a different exchange 
rate instead. The adviser set out how much Mr N would receive in sterling in a way he could 
read it, and he agreed to go ahead on that basis. So I dont think HSBC have treated him 
unfairly here.
Mr N says he could have received a better exchange rate if hed been able to make the 
transfer at an earlier point. Hes supplied us with some screenshots to show he attempted to 
do this online in June 2021, but didnt have access to online banking to do this. HSBC says 
this was because his account was dormant.
I do appreciate that its possible Mr N would have got a better exchange rate if hed been 
able to make the transfer earlier  and he didnt know why he couldnt make the transfer 
online at that time. But he was aware he couldnt do the transfer online in June 2021, and 
didnt speak to HSBC to try to resolve this at the time. Looking at what hes told us about 
when he first visited the branch to attempt to make the transfer, this wasnt until around three 
or four months afterwards.
I think if Mr N had spoken to HSBC on the phone or visited the branch after he first 
attempted the transfer online in June 2021, its likely the account would have been 
reactivated so he could have made the transfer sooner. But Mr N didnt pursue this further at 
that time, so I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to provide him with the exchange rate 
that would have applied if hed made the transfer then.
HSBC have told us they should have sent a letter to let Mr N know his account was being 
marked as dormant, but they didnt. I think it would have been useful for Mr N to have known 
earlier that this was the reason he couldnt make the transfer online, but I dont think this 
means he would have been able to make the transfer earlier as hed still have needed to 
arrange with HSBC to reactivate the account before he could do so. The investigator asked 
HSBC to pay Mr N £300 for having failed to notify him of the dormancy, and HSBC have 
agreed to pay this. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im sorry to learn of Mr Ns experiences of racism in the past, and that he feels HSBCs 
adviser was influenced by his race when she gave him the outcome of his complaint. Ive 
listened to the call between him and the adviser, and I didnt detect any change in the tone 
she used to speak to Mr N during the call. I dont think hes been treated any differently from 
any other customer in how HSBC answered his complaint. So, I dont think HSBC have 
treated him unfairly here. I hope this goes some way to reassuring Mr N that he hasnt 
received a poorer service from HSBC due to his race.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay him 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman