DRN-3073663
The complaint
Miss G complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have not made a reasonable offer 
of settlement in respect of damage to her dining table and chairs.    
     
What happened
Miss G bought dining room furniture from a retailer H in 2017 for £899 and purchased an 
insurance policy with Amtrust at the time of purchase to cover accidental damage. 
In September 2020 Miss G logged a claim for damage to the furniture caused by her dog. By 
this time the retailer H had gone into administration.  
Amtrust made an offer to settle the claim. They offered Miss G the choice of three options. 
She could;
a) keep the furniture and the policy and have £100
b) select new dining room furniture to the value of £899 from a different retailer D
c) have a cash settlement of £675.25, upon which the policy would cease. 
Miss G says that she was unable to find anything that she liked at retailer D and she felt that 
the alternative cash offer was too low. 
Amtrust issued a final response in March 2021 in which they explained that in the light of the 
retailers H going into administration, they have entered into an arrangement with D to be 
their supplier for all offers of alternative furniture and so they are unable to offer a voucher 
for a different store. 
Miss G was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Gs complaint and she thought that Amtrusts 
offer was fair.   
Miss G disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have to decide is whether Amtrust have acted within the terms of the policy and applied 
them fairly and reasonably. 
Section 1.3 of the terms and conditions of the policy says:
If we are unable to remove a stain, or make repair to, the insured item(s), or consider it to 
be uneconomical to do so, we will at our sole discretion offer you:
A) A new replacement for the insured item(s) of identical or similar specifications: or
B) A credit note to put towards a new replacement for the insured item(s) purchased 
from H: or
C) A cash settlement. In this event, this insurance will cease and the insured item(s) 
may at our sole discretion become our property   
As Amtrust were unable to offer an identical replacement from H, they offered a credit note 
for the original value of the purchase (£899) to be spent at retailer D, or a cash alternative. 
The terms of the policy also say that Amtrust will not offer more than the cost of the original 
purchase. 
I have considered whether the offer of credit at D was reasonable. Miss G says that she 
couldnt find anything that she liked at D, as they are mainly a supplier of sofas. I have 
viewed Ds website which shows a range of 58 dining tables and 71 types of chair.  They 
also have a range of dining sets which include a table and a set of matching chairs. Whilst I 
can accept that Miss G may not have seen anything she likes, I dont think the range can be 
said to be so limited that the offer is not a fair one. I also accept that Miss G may want to 
physically see an item before purchasing it, but most shops now only carry a fraction of their 
stock in store, and whilst it may be her preference to view the item, it doesnt make the offer 
unreasonable.   
 
In the alternative, Miss G is able to take a cash offer which is less than the value of the 
voucher. Miss G feels that this is too low. I appreciate that it is less than the voucher offered, 
but I cant say that its not fair. The value of the voucher is higher because when an insurer 
has an arrangement with a particular retailer, as is the case here, that retailer may offer 
discounts to the insurer and so they are able to offer a higher value credit for that store.  
In view of the above, I think that Amtrust have acted fairly in this case and their offer is in line 
with the terms of the policy, and fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Amtrust Europe Limited do not need to 
do anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman