DRN-2252385
The complaint
Mr J has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading at the time Mr Lender. Mr J says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loans caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr J took out 4 loans from Mr Lender between August 2017 and April 
2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Js borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the information 
it provided to us:
Taken Out Repaid Term Amount Repayment
1 29/08/2017 24/02/2018 6 £500.00 £191.33
2 24/02/2018 16/08/2018 6 £750.00 £287.00
3 10/10/2018 23/03/2019 6 £500.00 £179.90
4 18/04/2019 10/09/2019 12 £1,000.00 £272.33
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 4. Mr Lender says that it didnt do anything wrong. The 
complaint has therefore come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Js complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr J could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr J could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr J. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history to 
him with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, 
at some point, Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Our adjudicator said that he thought the complaint about loans 1, 2, and 3 ought not to be 
upheld as they appeared affordable. I agree with this as I see Mr Js self-declared income 
did seem capable of supporting these loans. The amounts being borrowed were relatively 
moderate and he paid each loan off before being given another one. Bearing in mind also 
what Ive said above about the length of the lending relationship, I think the more basic level 
of checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mr J himself, would 
have made those particular loans appear affordable for him. 
I therefore dont uphold Mr Js complaint about loans 1  3.
However, I think the emerging and repeated lending pattern at the point of loan 4 in this case 
would have looked different and therefore required a more thorough and responsible 
approach. He had asked to borrow much more money, for longer, in this instance and the 
overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending to Mr J should have caused it to see, in my view, that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans from this point onwards. 
This is because this was his fourth short-term loan application with Mr Lender in the previous 
20 months. So, Mr Lender ought to have realised that Mr J was probably borrowing to meet 
regular shortfalls in his income and to meet an ongoing need. He was having to consistently 
take out high interest, short-term lending and his indebtedness was becoming unsustainable. 
Mr Lender should have seen this and ought to have realised Mr J was at risk of not 
managing to repay his loans sustainably. 
So, Im upholding this complaint in respect of loan number 4. Mr Lender repeatedly lent to Mr 
J in an unsustainable manner because:
 this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.  
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan number 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
it was paid (if it was) to the date of settlement;
loan 4 means any information recorded about it is adverse. Therefore, all entries 
about loan 4 should be completely removed from Mr Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put 
things right for Mr J as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman