DRN-3106937
The complaint
Mr I says Bank Of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card which paid for a hotel room on a trip abroad.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr I used his Halifax credit card to pay for a hotel room. He paid Firm L who 
had provided information about availability and rates for the Hotel on its website. The cost 
was £781.81, and this was allocated to Mr Is credit card account. On arrival at the Hotel it 
said it didnt have a booking for the room for him. But it did have rooms available, so Mr I got 
a room but had to pay for it. So he paid twice for the room. He tried to sort this out with the 
Hotel but was unsuccessful. So he complained to Firm L, but likewise didnt get his money 
back.
So he took his dispute to Halifax in May 2020 to see if it could help. He said he had spoken 
to it at the time (in 2019) but it says it has no record of this. Halifax says it considered 
Chargeback and the Consumer Credit Act and having done so it didnt think it needed to 
refund him the cost of the room. However it did pay him £80 for some other customer service 
issues. So Mr I brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Halifax had treated Mr I fairly. And Mr I remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I used his Halifax credit card to pay Firm L for the hotel room. This means Halifax has 
certain responsibilities to Mr I which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail 
about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr I to hold 
Halifax liable for breaches of contract by Firm L, or misrepresentations made by it in relation 
to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of 
contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that 
contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to 
be untrue leading to detriment.
Halifax is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules (the Card Scheme) which includes giving Halifax an avenue for card transactions 
to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Halifax and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr I fairly. This decision isnt about Firm L or the 
Hotel-neither of which are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr I does 
here, Halifax (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr I 
doesnt dispute that he used his Halifax credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Halifax couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr I didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Halifax is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme has the final say on 
this process. So Halifax isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not, 
when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any 
stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Halifax has pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it notes 
that the transaction was in June 2019, but it says Mr I didnt raise the issue with it until May 
2020, by which time it was a long way outside the time limits. Mr I says he spoke to Halifax 
in 2019 at the time and it told him to go to Firm L. Halifax says it has no record of Mr I 
contacting it about this in 2019. And if Mr L did contact it, the Card Scheme rules do normally 
require consumers to try and sort the matter with the supplier (the Hotel) first. Which I can 
see Mr I did try to do. But its unclear why he didnt go to Halifax for so long once hed failed 
with Firm L and the Hotel. On balance Im not persuaded that Mr I properly raised the matter 
with Halifax in time. So I dont think Mr I has lost out here because Halifax didnt raise a 
Chargeback in May 2020 as it would have been out of time.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Is claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr I) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier-the Hotel here) as 
well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-Halifax). And this is the crux of the complaint 
here. Mr I says that the DCS relationship is in place so Halifax can be held liable for any 
breach of contract by the Hotel.
The Hotel was due to supply Mr I with the hotel room, but it wasnt who he paid with his 
credit card. He paid Firm L. Mr I says he wasnt aware of this issue until some-time after the 
purchase. Firm L acts as a marketplace and/or introducer. Its terms and conditions regarding 
hotel stays state that it acts as a supplier of the website for the purposes of assistance and 
support for the User's reservations, which means that the purchase contract for the hotel will 
be concluded only between the User and the hotel.And these are the terms Mr I agreed to when using its service. So its clear that Mr Is 
contract was with the Hotel for the room and that he paid Firm L for the services it provided 
around the introduction and website. So clearly there are four parties here namely Mr I, the 
Hotel, Firm L and Halifax. So Im not persuaded that DCS is in place here with regard to the 
hotel room. It is in place between Firm L, Mr I and Halifax but I dont see any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by Firm L here. Mr I told us that hed arranged the booking and 
that Firm L had tried to get the money back for him. And as this was only a room booking 
without flights or other requirements it doesnt qualify as a package holiday which would 
have afforded more protection in such circumstances than a room only booking.
Ive also considered whether Firm L is acting purely as a payment processor here, but Im 
not persuaded it is. Clearly its providing introductory and information services rather than 
simply transactional services. And clearly Firm L and the Hotel are not Associates as 
defined in the Consumer Credit Act (which is a far tighter, more defined definition that the 
common usage of the word).
Mr I may argue that there must have been an arrangement between Firm L and the Hotel 
considering the situation and that this DCS inter-relationship issue is, in essence, a moot 
point. I disagree. The problems with the Hotel room is an issue for the Hotel as it provides 
that service, but it is Firm L who Mr I paid with his credit card. 
It should also be remembered that the only reason Halifax is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Halifax wouldnt have any 
potential liability for the Hotel room at all (it would have obligations around Chargeback but 
that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am 
to hold Halifax liable the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. And Im 
satisfied it isnt made out here.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Halifax has treated Mr I unfairly. 
Im not persuaded that the required relationship was made out. I think there are four parties 
involved in this transaction and I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in 
place for the provision of the hotel room. So I dont think Halifax hasnt done anything wrong 
here which needs remedy.
This decision doesnt decide that Mr I hasnt lost out, clearly he has. But the parties involved 
here are only responsible for what they are responsible for here. And Halifaxs position on 
Chargeback and S75 is fair. And I think the £80 it paid was fair in the circumstances. I can 
well appreciate Mr Is disappointment at what has happened. However Halifax has treated 
him fairly here as it cannot be held responsible for what happened here as DCS has not 
been shown to be in place.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank Of Scotland Plc, 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman