DRN-1699318
 
Complaint
Miss H has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
irresponsibly lent to her which caused her to be financially dependent on its loans. Miss H 
says SNC should have noticed that the loans were increasing in size and her repeated use 
was an indicator that she could not afford the repayments.                
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
 
What I said in my provisional decision:
 Miss H approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2016. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Miss H was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in January 2016. Her limit was 
increased on six occasions taking it up to £1,000.  Miss H last used her facility in July 2019 
and the account was repaid in full. 
In its final response letter dated 15 November 2019, SNC offered Miss H an ex-gratia 
payment of £3,000. Miss H declined SNCs offer and asked our service to look into her 
complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint and thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate. But our adjudicator thought the facility 
became unaffordable for Miss H around a month after she started using it, and this was 
something which SNC should have been aware of.
Miss H appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im intending to partly 
uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.
However, what I would add is that both Miss H and SNC appear to accept the adjudicators 
recommendation that at least initially the facility was suitable for her. So as this is no longer 
in dispute I dont intend to making on the granting of the facility. Instead, in this decision Ill 
be focusing on whether SNC monitored the facility. But in response to the adjudicators findings SNC provided some us comments around the 
use of the additional income it could see on the bank statements. 
SNC says it was within its right to factor in Miss Hs ex-partners income when considering if 
the facility was affordable for Miss H. In particular, SNC has raised the guidance in the 
FCAs document PS18/19 of 19th July 2018 on Assessing Creditworthiness in Consumer 
Credit  in particular the content of paragraph 4 of Chapter 3 (Common misconceptions and 
proportionality) which provides as follows regarding taking account of other household 
income than that of the applicant: Account may be taken of the income of other individuals 
within the household, or with whom the borrower has shared finances (for example a joint 
current account), provided that the firm is reasonably satisfied that this will be available to 
the borrower for repayment of the credit. 
 Additionally, SNC further raises the guidance under CONC 5.2A.12 that states that 
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement: (2) 
out of, or using, one or more of the following: (a) the customers income; (b) income from 
savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income received by 
the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in so far as it 
is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make repayments 
under the agreement.  
I think its important to note that the guidance SNC has relied on was within the FCAs Policy 
Statement dated July 2018  which is nearly two and a half years after Miss H applied for 
her facility. And Ive already explained, at the start of the decision the regulations that were 
applicable at the time the facility was granted. 
However, as Ive explained above, Miss H wasnt contractually obliged to completely repay 
the facility in full when she next got paid and the minimum payment was £20. Given the low 
monthly repayment she couldve made to SNC, I think it was just about reasonable for SNC 
to have approved the facility based on all the information it gathered about her 
circumstances. 
So taking on board all the information SNC saw, I think it couldve reasonably concluded that 
the facility appeared affordable.
what happened after the facility was granted
Whilst I think it was reasonable for SNC to provide Miss H with her facility that doesnt mean 
that SNC hasnt done anything wrong. At the time Miss H took out her Safety Net facility, 
CONC 6.7.2 says: a firm must monitor the customers repayment record and take action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Had SNC monitored Miss Hs facility, our adjudicator thought that this should have resulted 
in SNC not lending to Miss H from 21 February 2016. Our adjudicator explained that
Miss Hs payments to online betting sites and payday loans had increased by this point, 
which led to her expenses totalling more than her sole income. 
Whilst SNC should have been monitoring Miss Hs facility, I dont agree that SNC should 
have stopped lending from February 2016. This was still early on in the lending relationship 
and I dont think a pattern had formed by this point which suggested Miss H was reliant on 
SNCs lending. Also, I dont think that SNC had enough information to suggest Miss Hs 
circumstances had deteriorated to the point where she was unable to meet her financial 
obligations.I acknowledge what our adjudicator has said about the increased gambling transactions 
showing on Miss Hs bank statements. I can see that there was a significant amount of 
winnings paid into the account from an online betting website. Subsequently, around the 
same amount was then gambled before further winnings were credited on 1 March 2016. 
Whilst I cant be sure if Miss H or her ex-partner was gambling at the time due to the limited 
information I have, Im not persuaded that the gambling transactions were a significant 
amount of Miss Hs income. The transactions were for relatively small amounts which were 
sporadic in the months leading up to her application for her facility. Im more persuaded that 
the increased number of betting transactions were as a result of bet winnings.   
I can see Miss H continued to borrow from other short-term lenders, and she continued to 
make payments for rent, direct debts and her normal monthly living costs. But based on 
everything Ive seen about her circumstances, I dont think it was wrong for SNC to have 
continued still lending to her past February 2016.
I do, however, think SNC should have stopped lending to Miss H at the end of April 2016 
due to Miss Hs circumstances and the way she used her account. I think there were signs 
that she wasnt using her facility in a sustainable manner and that a pattern had emerged in 
her use of the facility. I say this because shortly after funds were received in Miss Hs 
account, she was clearing her loan balance in full. But within a few weeks, mostly within a 
couple of days, she had requested further funds drawing up to her maximum credit limit. This 
is important, because as Ive mentioned when SNC approved the facility, it was entitled to 
believe that Miss H would repay what she owed over a reasonable period of time. But a few 
months into her borrowing, it was clear this was not happening.
In addition to this, Miss H repeatedly requested to borrow a larger amount each month. Her 
credit limit was initially approved for £300 but had increased to £630 by April 2016. Only 
three months in, this was more than double what she originally borrowed. I believe these 
were not the actions of someone in a stable financial position.
In addition to the way Miss H used her facility by the end of April 2016, SNC would have 
seen that she continued to make repayments to other short-term lenders during this period. I 
can also see a large number of cash withdrawals were still being drawn out of her account. 
These cash withdrawals were regular and had averaged around £2,082 in the previous three 
months. So therefore, I think this is something which SNC should have considered when 
monitoring Miss Hs circumstances.
By 29 April 2016, I think Miss H had used her account in a way that showed her borrowing 
had become somewhat harmful and unsustainable. She was showing a potential reliance on 
SNCs facility as she needed to borrow each month, whilst increasing her credit limit. And 
she would borrow her maximum credit limit within a few days of repaying what she owed in 
full. Her request on 29 April 2016 was the fifth time she had used her facility this way. 
Miss H went on to request a further 109 deposits whilst holding the facility for a further three 
years. So although this wasnt a payday loan, Miss H was in effect using the facility as such 
and not how it was intended.
Overall, I think SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility from 29 April 2016 and not allowed Miss 
H to continue using it from this date. So I think Miss H has lost out as a result of SNCs 
actions
 What Ive decided  and whyIn my provisional decision I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and 
evidence. Miss H didnt have any further comments.  SNC has given us some additional 
comments.
Ive carefully considered everything SNC has told us. In summary it said:
In line with guidance at the time, SNC did monitor the facility and it assessed the 
affordability on a weekly basis. 
Based on the weekly affordability checks SNC carried out, it was satisfied that Miss H 
was in a position to take on and continue to use the facility.
SNC doesnt agree that Miss H was repaying her borrowing in full, rather than 
repaying the drawdowns over a reasonable period of time.  
At the point that I decided that SNC should not have allowed any further borrowing, 
SNC says that Miss H was still in a position to afford the lending. 
SNC says that Miss Hs limit was initially granted as £1,000 but it allowed her a risk 
cap to start borrowing at £300
SNC considered 77% of the cash transfers, withdrawals and uncategorised debts as 
non disposable expenditure and from the end of April the bank statement show that 
no harm was being caused to her. For example there were only a couple occasions 
where Miss H incurred unpaid direct debit fees. 
SNC disagrees that Miss H was using the account as if it was like payday loan, 
instead she was using the facility as if it was an overdraft.  
 
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what SNC about how the facility was being used and what its monitoring 
of it showed, but having thought about these comments, I still think Miss Hs complaint 
should be upheld and Ive explained why below. 
I appreciate that SNC has clarified how initially in approved a limit of £1,000 but started off 
lower and then gradually increased it. However, the credit agreement that it has provided 
shows that it initially provided a £300 limit. Whatever, the case may be, I didnt comment on 
whether the facility shouldve been provided in the provisional decision because both parties 
appeared to have accepted the adjudicator\s reasoning as to why it wasnt unreasonable for 
it to be granted  regardless of the credit limit set by SNC.  
Firstly, Ill mention the regulation that was applicable at the time, from the Consumer Credit 
Source Book (CONC)
CONC 5.2 includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind 
when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm should 
consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example, the 
type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. 
So, although the facility may have appeared to have been pounds and pence affordable for 
Miss H, I do have consider whether the account was being used as was its intended purpose 
and being repaid sustainably  after all it was a requirement for SNC to consider this.
What I would point out is that SNC had already increased Miss Hs available credit from 
£300 when the account was opened to £630. So SNC must have believed that Miss H was 
able to afford the increase. However, given how Miss H was using the facility I dont think it 
was reasonable of SNC to have believed that Miss H would repay each drawdown over a 
reasonable period of time. Instead, given the manner in which Miss H used the account to 
date, it was far more likely that Miss H would instead borrow the full £630 and have to repay 
this plus any interest that had accrued the next time funds were received into the account. 
As I explained in the provisional decision, I have to be mindful of how Miss H was using this 
facility, after all the credit agreement provided by SNC says .assuming a credit limit of 
£1200 and to be drawn down immediately and in full and repaid within one year period in 
equal monthly instalments along with interest 
So as I explained in the provisional decision, there is a clear indication that Miss H wouldnt 
be expected to repay what is owed  in one go, but instead, her repayments were due to be 
repaid over a number of months. 
Id also point out the daily interest rate is 0.8% but this is capped for each drawdown for a 
maximum of 40 days. So if it took Miss H 50 days to repay a drawdown, interest would only 
be charged for the first 40 days. However, the manner in which Miss H used the facility 
meant that interest was always charged, because it seems none of Miss Hs drawdowns 
went on for longer than 40 days. 
So if a customer is drawing down the full amount available to them, or taking multiple 
drawdowns and then repaying in full what is owed (plus interest) when funds are received 
into the account, I no longer thing it would be reasonable of SNC to believe that the 
customer would be repaying these loans over a reasonable period of time. Indeed, if they 
are repaying what is owed every time they have been paid, there is an argument to say that 
SNC needed to consider the maximum the consumer could repay and use that figure as the 
basis of its affordability assessment and monitoring of the facility.
And if we look at when drawdowns were taken relative to when Miss H made repayments, 
we see that up to the end of April, every time Miss H made a repayment a drawdown would 
be made within days, and sometimes within a matter of hours. To me, that would suggest 
that Miss H was having problems managing her money, as why would there be a need to 
borrow so quickly? This pattern is concerning and ought to have alerted SNC to there being 
a problem.  
Ive noted what SNC has said about its product being like an overdraft. But it didnt provide 
an overdraft to Miss H. In any event, even if I were to accept SNCs argument (to be clear I 
dont), the regulatory requirement for a lender to monitor an account holders account usage 
and repayment record applies to all credit providers including overdraft ones.  And, in this 
case, overall, the pattern of Miss Hs usage was akin to a customer who uses payday loans. 
So even though SNC didnt provide a payday loan to Miss H her pattern of usage suggested that she may have struggling to manage their commitments and I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect SNC to have taken this into account. 
So I still think SNC was wrong to have allowed Miss H to continue to drawdown on the 
facility from 29 April 2016.
Putting things right
 To put things right for Miss H, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fee and charges and then refund all the interest and 
charges applied to Miss Hs facility from 29 April 2016 onwards;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were date to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file as a result of not 
stopping the facility from 29 April 2016.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman