DRN-1967581
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MYJAR Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mrs M was given five loans by MYJAR between May 2015 and March 2016. The loans were 
due to be repaid in monthly instalments over periods of up to a year as shown below. Mrs M 
has successfully repaid her first four loans but a balance remained outstanding on her final 
loan when she made her complaint. A summary of Mrs M's borrowing from MYJAR is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount Number of 
Instalments
1 22/05/2015 29/05/2015 £    100 1
2 02/06/2015 27/08/2015 £    300 3
3 27/08/2015 07/12/2015 £ 1,000 6
4 10/02/2016 12/02/2016 £    800 6
5 15/03/2016 - £    600 12
When Mrs M first complained to MYJAR it accepted that the final loan might have been 
unsuitable for her. So it offered to remove all the interest and charges it had added to the 
loan, and only ask Mrs M to repay the remaining outstanding capital. Mrs M didnt accept 
that offer and brought her complaint to this Service.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
MYJAR had been wrong to give the first four loans to Mrs M. And since the offer MYJAR had 
made on the last loan was in line with what hed have recommended if he thought the loan 
shouldnt have been given, he didnt need to make any assessment of that loan. He asked 
MYJAR to put things right as it had previously proposed.
Mrs M didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
MYJAR has said that loan 5 might have been unsuitable for Mrs M. The offer that it has 
made to her is exactly what I would have asked it to do if Id upheld her complaint about that 
loan. So apart from directing MYJAR to put things right as it has proposed I need not 
comment any further about that loan in this decision.
MYJAR did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mrs M. It asked her for details of 
her income and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before agreeing each 
loan. I've seen a summary of the results of the credit check and they don't show anything 
that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first two loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mrs M needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income shed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. 
The amount that Mrs M needed to repay on her third loan increased significantly. And she 
took that loan on the same day that shed repaid her previous borrowing. I think that by now 
MYJAR should have realised that it couldn't safely rely on the information Mrs M was 
providing about her finances. I think MYJAR should have taken steps to independently check 
Mrs M's true financial position before agreeing this and the subsequent loans.
We asked Mrs M for copies of her bank statements from the time so we could see what 
better checks would have shown to the lender before it agreed loans 3 and 4. Mrs M didnt 
provide these to us. So I am unable to conclude that better checks should have led to 
MYJAR declining Mrs Ms applications for these loans. I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to 
give these loans to Mrs M.In summary I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first two loans were 
proportionate. And although I think MYJAR should have done more checks before agreeing 
loans 3 and 4, I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that these loans shouldnt have been 
given. MYJAR has accepted that it shouldnt have given the last loan to Mrs M, so it needs to 
put things right in relation to that loan.
Putting things right
MYJAR has agreed that it shouldnt have given the last loan to Mrs M. So in respect of the 
loan it gave her on 15 March 2016 (loan 5) MYJAR should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 5 and treat any payments 
Mrs M made towards this loan as payments towards the capital.
if reworking the loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MYJAR should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking the loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then it is 
reasonable for MYJAR to request repayment of this amount from Mrs M. But I remind 
MYJAR that it should take a sympathetic view and seek to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs M.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to loan 5.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mrs Ms complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman