DRN-2967052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 8 November 2019, Mr and Mrs F took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was to cover a cruise holiday Mr and Mrs F had booked between 20 April 
and 2 May 2020. They paid £285.78 for the policy (including an additional premium of 
£13.99 for optional gadget cover). The policy included cover for Mr and Mrs Fs medical 
conditions.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. Mr and Mrs F 
got in touch with the broker on 18 March 2020 to cancel the policy and to request a refund of 
their premium. The cruise was ultimately cancelled on 30 March 2020 by the provider and Mr 
and Mrs F received a full refund of their trip costs.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs F a cash refund of their premium. Instead, it offered 
them one of the following options:
The chance to move their policy dates to within 18 months of the original purchase 
date; or
A pro-rata credit voucher for the unused portion of their policy, which could be put 
towards a new travel insurance policy and which would be valid for 36 months. It 
calculated the value of the voucher to be £70.63.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
The broker let us know that Mr and Mrs F would be entitled to a full cash refund of their 
premium for the optional gadget cover from the insurer which underwrote the add-on cover. 
This was to be paid separately. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. He also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 8 November 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs F a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly 
restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs F a cash refund of their 
premium.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. In summary, they said they had no intention of going abroad again 
due to Mrs Fs health. They stated that while the pandemic was no-ones fault, they didnt 
see why they should lose out. They considered Great Lakes had retained over £200 of their 
money for simply issuing paperwork. They felt that as they hadnt travelled, Great Lakes 
hadnt covered any risks. And they considered that Great Lakes was profiting from their 
misfortune.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Fs cooling-off period ended on 22 November 2019. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 18 March 2020. So the cancellation was significantly 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional 
circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are 
individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. 
This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs contract with 
Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of Mr and Mrs Fs policy is fair and reasonable. And given the policy was cancelled on 18 March 2020  around two 
weeks before the cruise provider cancelled the trip, I think its fair that the date of the 
cancellation of the policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 177-day period if the 
policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 46 days 
of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any 
risk of Mr and Mrs F making a claim after that point. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs F 
feel that given they didnt take their holiday, Great Lakes wasnt on risk, I disagree. 
Thats because Great Lakes was covering the risk of them cancelling the holiday 
from the date they took out their policy  on 8 November 2019. And Im satisfied this 
was made clear on the policy documentation.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while Mr and Mrs F have indicated they dont intend to 
travel abroad again, the voucher can be put towards any policy  either annual or 
single trip. And it can be transferred to a third party. So while I understand that Mr 
and Mrs F would prefer a cash refund of their premium, I dont think that the terms of 
the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its offer of a pro-rata credit voucher is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman