DRN-3946059
The complaint
Mr P has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited closed his credit card 
accounts and as a result he lost the benefits he accrued.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account which say:
This agreement is open ended and has no fixed duration. You and we can end it without 
giving any reason..
And
We can do this by giving you at least two months written notice, but we may end this 
agreement immediately..
Mr P would have agreed to the terms and conditions prior to opening the accounts. As such, 
he ought to have been aware that American Express can terminate the agreement with 
immediate effect. Therefore, as American Express has acted in line with the terms of the 
account, I cant reasonably conclude it acted unfairly. 
However, I can see that American Express sent Mr P a letter on 2 November 2022 
explaining that it was terminating the agreement with immediate effect and explained that 
letter served as two months notice. However, prior to receiving the notice Mr R had tried to 
make a payment on 3 November 2022 which was declined. As such he contacted American 
Express. While I understand Mr Ps frustrations that he did not receive the letter prior to 
American Express blocking the account, as I have explained above, they are entitled to take 
this action. 
I have gone on to consider Mr P not receiving the cashback. Again, after considering the 
terms and conditions I am satisfied it says if the agreement is terminated the cashback is 
forfeited. As explained above, as Mr P would have needed to confirm that he had read the 
terms and conditions prior to opening the account I am satisfied he ought to have been 
aware of this term. 
As such, as it is clear in the terms and conditions, I cant reasonably conclude that American 
Express has acted unreasonably. 
I appreciate Mr P was left embarrassed when he found out the card had been cancelled but 
for the reasons I have explained above, I cant reasonably conclude that American Express 
has treated Mr P unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman