DRN-3628951
The complaint
Miss S has complained about her car insurer, Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE). It 
declined her claim made when her car was stolen; she thinks it handled the claim poorly and 
is unhappy with it being declined, as well as her car (which was recovered) having been 
declared a category N total loss. She also has concerns that she was due a refund and that 
the ownership of the car was changed out of her name, even though she has the car.
What happened
Miss S contacted AIE on 30 July 2020 as she had discovered her car was missing. She 
reported she had last driven and seen it the day before. The loss was reported to the police 
too and the car was recovered on 31 July 2020. AIE began investigating the theft; it 
interviewed Miss S, subsequently applying for a copy of the police report, forensically 
examining the cars key and generally considering the reported circumstances of the theft. 
In July 2021 AIE told Miss S it was declining her claim as it hadnt been able to validate it. 
AIE confirmed that Miss Ss car had been recorded as a category N write off, and it 
amended an industry database which had been showing it had taken ownership of the car. 
But Miss S told it that the DVLA (Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency) had received a 
change of ownership request and she was no longer the owner. AIE said it hadnt had her 
V5 form (her registration documents), or sent any details to the DVLA. But it said it would 
pay her £25.00 so she could amend the ownership details. It said though it wouldnt amend 
the categorisation for the car  that had to be recorded even though the claim had been 
declined.
Miss S enquired about a premium refund. She had received a request for payment of an 
outstanding premium which she felt didnt take into account payments she had made. AIEs 
representative didnt agree there had been an over payment.
AIE said it didnt believe the claim had been delayed, or that its communication with Miss S 
had been poor. 
Our Investigator considered Miss Ss complaint about the decline of the claim and the 
categorisation that had been applied to the car. He felt these were the core issues of the 
complaint and concluded that, in these respects, AIE had acted fairly and reasonably.
Miss S was dissatisfied. Her complaint was passed to me to consider. I felt AIE had failed 
Miss S in some respects. I issued a provisional decision to explain all my views, along with 
what redress I felt was required. My provisional findings were:
Premium
I know Miss S thinks she is due a refund of premiums. But Im not persuaded she is. That 
said I do think she has been unfairly charged in relation to the policy being cancelled.
Whilst AIE considered the claim Miss S continued paying her monthly premium. When the 
car was found to be a total loss AIEs representative acted to cancel the policy and asked 
Miss S to make a final payment. But the claim wasnt actually resolved at that time  the 
claim continued, with the car initially remaining in AIEs possession. The car was later 
returned to Miss S  and that was after the policy year had ended. 
During that time, and whilst Miss S didnt have use of her car, AIE was still providing cover 
for it. So Miss S had a full year of cover and for that she was responsible for the whole years 
premium of £559.55. Against that she had paid £318.33. That left a premium deficit for 
Miss S to pay AIE of £241.22. But AIEs representative, because it treated the policy as 
being cancelled, added charges for Miss S to pay of £165.00. That brought the total Miss S 
was asked to pay to £406.22. As the policy effectively continued to renewal, no cancellation 
costs should have been added. If Miss S paid the sum of £165.00 charged in respect of 
cancellation, this should be refunded to her, plus interest from the date she paid it until 
settlement is made.
If Miss S didnt pay all of the outstanding balance requested by AIEs representative and this 
has been noted on her credit record, AIE will have to now waive the sum of £165.00. It will 
also have to provide a letter to her explaining the non-payment was due to its error. Miss S 
can then use this letter to amend or explain any negative detail on her credit file. 
Category N
Miss S thinks her car has been unfairly categorised as AIE has overestimated the cost to 
repair it. She had an MOT completed and it found only some minor repair was needed. She 
feels that if there had been a fault with the steering, which AIE had referenced during the 
claim, this would have been picked up.
I can understand Miss Ss concern  but an MOT wouldnt pick up or account for all of the 
repair damage which AIEs repairing garage had found. And depending on the nature of the 
issue with the steering, this may not have been picked up by the MOT either. In contrast, 
AIEs garage reported that parts related to the steering of the car needed to be replaced. 
And AIEs engineer found that the additional cost of this work, which wasnt factored into an 
initial estimate for repair, made repairing the car uneconomical when set against the 
pre-accident value of the car, which Miss S agreed was around £10,500. AIE is entitled to 
rely on the opinions of its garage and engineer. Only if I felt they were likely flawed in some 
way could I reasonably say they couldnt be relied upon and I havent seen anything which 
makes me think they are most likely flawed.
Change of ownership
It is unclear to me exactly how the DVLA came to change the ownership details for Miss Ss 
car. And that lack of clarity exists, at least in part as, due to data protection issues, the DVLA 
cant tell Miss S who is currently named as the cars owner. AIE denies ever having had the 
V5, which would allow it to do this, and says it couldnt have done it anyway. Miss S says 
she gave the V5 to AIE. And Im mindful that, despite AIE stating otherwise, it is usual 
practice for a V5 to be asked for early on in the process of a claim such as this. I can see 
AIEs agent certainly saw and took photos of the V5 in August 2020. And theres a letter 
which suggests it didnt just take photos  that it gathered and held the original documents 
which were later sent on to AIE.
However, information from the DVLA suggests the ownership details were changed around 
December 2020  prior to AIEs agent sending it the original documents. And I havent seen 
anything from AIE around that time that suggests it or any of its agents had acted to change 
the ownership details. So even though I think AIE could have had the V5 for Miss Ss car, Im 
not persuaded its most likely AIE changed the cars ownership details with the DVLA. But AIE has said it will pay Miss S the £25.00 the DVLA will charge for the car to be placed back 
in her name. In the circumstances, I think that is a fair way for this matter to be resolved. 
Decline of the claim
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Miss S, I think AIE has acted fairly 
and reasonably in this respect. Ill explain.
An insurance policy usually offers cover for certain damage and/or losses caused in certain 
ways. Here Miss Ss policy offers cover for theft of her vehicle. In making the claim the ball, 
so to speak, was initially in Miss Ss court. That means it was up to her to show that, on the 
face of it, a theft had likely occurred. Theres no doubt here that, initially, Miss S did that.  
But then the ball passes to the insurer. The insurer has to validate the claim. If it can show it 
likely didnt happen in the way reported, or that a policy term or exclusion applies to 
otherwise defeat the claim, then it may well be able to decline it. Here AIE has said it is 
declining the claim because it doesnt think the theft, as reported by Miss S likely occurred. 
I can see that AIE has a number of concerns about various elements of the claim. But I think 
its fair to say that the main concern that everything turns on relates to the key which Miss S 
had in her possession after the car was stolen and which she told AIE was the only key 
shed had for the car. Miss S also told AIE that she was 100% certain she locked the car 
when she left it. However, the expert evidence AIE gathered noted that the key wasnt of a 
type that could be cloned, and nor was the car equipped for keyless entry. All of which 
meant that if the car had been locked when it was left, and with Miss S having had the only 
key, it couldnt have been stolen without entry to it being forced, which would have triggered 
an alarm, which couldnt have been silenced by the thieves for at least ten minutes. AIE 
noted that the police had completed enquiries in the area and whilst a neighbour reported 
seeing someone drive off in the car, no-one reported hearing an alarm. Having seen 
everything, I can understand why AIE felt the loss had most likely not occurred in the way 
reported by Miss S i.e. with the car locked and/or the only key for it in her possession. This 
meant that it could no longer accept that she, on the face of it, had shown a theft had most 
likely occurred and it declined the claim. Given the available expert evidence, I think that its 
decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. 
I know Miss S has reported people telling her that the car could have been accessed by 
thieves using certain technical devices. And I see she sent some detail from the internet 
showing this being done. But I dont think that type of anecdotal advice and general detail 
means that AIE must reasonably disregard the expert evidence it received, which was based 
on the specific details of Miss Ss car and key.   
For completeness, I know AIE has considered whether or not to view this as a fraudulent 
claim. I can see it has decided not to view it in that way. So whilst it hasnt accepted the 
claim, it isnt accusing Miss S of any wrong-doing. Delay and poor communication
I know Miss S has said she feels she was treated differently on account of her age. I havent 
seen anything that makes me think that was the case. 
But I do think the claim wasnt handled well and took far too long to progress. I accept that 
sometimes the progress of a claim can naturally and reasonably occur in a piecemeal way. 
But here I think that AIE could and should have managed its enquiries in a more cohesive 
and timely manner. For example, examining the key whilst waiting for the police report to be 
provided. I also note AIE misplaced Miss Ss key on occasions which caused delays in its 
enquiries moving forwards. I further note that whilst AIE had already been told by its key 
expert that the key might only hold detail of limited relevance, because it had been used 
since the loss whilst the car was being stored, it didnt take note of that advice. This also 
caused delays.
A claim of this nature would always have taken some time to investigate and consider. But 
I think if AIE had managed it reasonably it wouldve only taken around six months to 
conclude rather than twelve.
I also think that AIE didnt keep Miss S up to date. I appreciate that there was limited detail it 
could have given her whilst its enquiries were ongoing. But this was clearly an important 
issue for Miss S and I think AIE could have done more to let her know she hadnt been 
forgotten. As it was it seems that it was mostly Miss S calling AIE. 
I understand that the prolonged nature of this claim and the poor communication was 
frustrating and upsetting for Miss S. I think AIE should pay her £250.00 compensation to 
make up for that.
AIE made no objection to my provisional findings. Miss S said she accepted them. However, 
she also sent in a copy of a letter shed received from AIE, written recently to assist her with 
her application to the DVLA to change the cars ownership details. She said it should be 
noted that, in that letter, AIE says the ownership details were incorrectly changed to AIE. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter does confirm that an incorrect change occurred. But that was never in doubt 
because Miss S was not registered as the owner and she should have been. In any event an 
appropriate remedy which should allow the details to be corrected has already been put 
forward, with the parties already acting to progress it.
I remain of the view that my provisional findings, along with the redress I set out, are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. They now form the findings of this, my final decision.Putting things right
I require AIE to:
Refund Miss S the £165.00 charged for cancellation  if, of course, Miss S has paid this 
sum to it. Plus interest* from the date she paid it until settlement is made.
And if Miss S has not paid it all of the sum it told her was owed in December 2020, and this 
has been recorded on her credit file, it will have to provide a letter for her explaining the 
non-payment was due to its error. It will also have to waive the amount of £165.00.
I also require AIE to pay Miss S:
£25.00 to allow her to change the ownership record with the DVLA.
£250.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AIE to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman