DRN-3482489
The complaint
Ms W complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (ELL) lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms W has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, for ease, as in my provisional decision I will generally refer to all communication as 
having been with, and from, Ms W herself.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Ms W was given three loans by ELL between March 2018 and May 2019. She first 
borrowed £3,000 that she agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. In August 2018 
she refinanced that loan, borrowing a total of £4,500 that she agreed to repay in 
30 monthly instalments. And then she again refinanced her loan, taking her 
borrowing up to £6,000 that she agreed to repay in 60 monthly instalments. 
A balance remained outstanding on the final loan at the time Ms W made her 
complaint.
ELL gathered some information from Ms W before it agreed each loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and it used some industry statistical data to estimate 
Ms Ws normal living costs. And it checked her credit file to see how much she was 
repaying to other lenders and how she had managed credit in the past.
Ms W was entering into a significant commitment with ELL when she asked for the 
first loan. She would need to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. 
So I think it was right that ELL wanted to gather, and independently check, some 
detailed information about Ms Ws financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to 
her. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  
I think that ELLs checks were proportionate.
And I think the same applies to the checks that ELL performed before agreeing the 
second loan. I think ELL might have had increasing concerns about Ms Ws finances, 
given that she had needed to refinance her first loan less than one third of the way 
through its agreed term  and that she took some additional borrowing at that time. 
But on balance I dont think any concerns would have been such that ELL needed to 
do additional checks at that time.
 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of the checks ELL did before the first 
two loans to see whether it made fair lending decisions.
The results of the credit checks showed that Ms W was making little other use of 
credit. When she asked for the first loan she had a small unsecured loan outstanding, 
and a telecoms account. There was also another telecoms account that appeared to 
be in dispute. But overall, based on what ELL knew about Ms Ws income and her 
estimated expenditure, it seemed likely that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
Ms Ws finances appeared to have improved slightly when she asked for the second 
loan. The unsecured loan had now been repaid, just leaving the two telecoms 
accounts that had been open at the time of her first loan. And since Ms W had 
extended the repayment period, there was little change in what shed need to repay 
to ELL each month despite her taking the additional borrowing. So I think it was 
reasonable for ELL to conclude that the second loan would be affordable for Ms W 
too.
Ms W asked to refinance her borrowing for a second time in May 2019. That was little 
more than a year after shed taken the first loan, and just nine months after the 
second loan. I think ELL should have been concerned that a pattern of reliance on 
borrowing was starting to form. Although Ms W had repaid around £500 of the capital 
shed borrowed on each of her first two loans  plus the interest shed been charged 
 her overall debt was steadily increasing.
So I dont think the checks ELL did before agreeing the third loan were sufficient. 
I think it would have been proportionate for ELL to seek further information so that it 
could verify exactly what was happening with Ms Ws finances.
But although I dont think the checks ELL did before agreeing the third loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean that Ms Ws complaint should succeed. Id also 
need to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
shown ELL that Ms W couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So we asked 
Ms W for copies of her bank statements, to see what better checks would have 
shown ELL.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check 
that ELL should have carried out. I do think ELL needed further information to 
corroborate what Ms W said was happening with her finances. And looking at her 
bank statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many 
other ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at 
Ms Ws bank statements I could get a good idea of what better checks might have 
shown.
Ms W hasnt provided us with her bank statements. So, I havent been able to get a 
picture of what her financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. That means 
I cant say that if ELL had completed better checks it wouldve found that Ms W 
couldnt afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms W. But based on the 
information I currently have available I cannot reasonably conclude that ELL 
shouldnt have given the loans to her. If Ms W is able to supply copies of her bank 
statements, for the period leading up to the third loan being agreed, I will of course 
reconsider my decision. But I dont currently think her complaint should be upheld.I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL has said that it agrees with my provisional decision. Ms W hasnt 
provided us with anything further despite her CMC requesting, and being provided with, an 
extension to the original response period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Based on the 
information available to me I cannot reasonably conclude that ELL lent to Ms W in an 
irresponsible manner. So I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman