DRN-3192973
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement Skyfire Insurance Company Limited offered him under 
his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. He wants it to pay him a further £1,000.
What happened
Mr As car was stolen and not recovered. Skyfire offered him £13,000, less his £450 policy 
excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr A was unhappy with this as he said he couldnt 
replace his car with a similar one for that amount. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Skyfires offer was fair and reasonable and so she didnt think it needed to increase it. 
Mr A replied that hed been short-changed as he had to either buy a replacement car with 
higher mileage or he had to pay extra out of his own pocket to buy a similar car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement following the loss of his car. Mr A thought 
Skyfire should replace his car. But I can see that his policy provides for the cars market 
value at the time of its loss. So Skyfire doesnt need to provide Mr A with a replacement. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Skyfires settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr As car at the date of its 
loss. I can see that she looked for the retail transacted valuations. And I can see that the 
optional extras didnt increase the valuations. I dont think this is unusual. The average of the 
valuations she found was less than that offered by Skyfire. 
Mr A provided examples of similar cars offered for sale at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Mr A was unhappy that his policy excess was deducted from the settlement. But the policy 
excess is always the first part of a claim to be paid and Mr A agreed with the excess when 
he took out his policy. So I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable, 
So I think Skyfires settlement offer for the market value of Mr As car exceeded what was 
made correctly in keeping with our approach. Therefore, I think it was fair and reasonable. 
And I dont require Skyfire to increase its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman