DRN-3362068
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly avoided their 
commercial property owners insurance policy.
What happened
W had a policy with Ageas, and they submitted a claim for significant fire damage in 
February 2021. The business tenants were unable to trade and the other tenants had 
suffered smoke damage.
Ageas investigated the claim but discovered that the roof of the property was all flat. Ageas 
said they were told differently when the policy was taken out. And had they known the roof 
was flat they wouldnt have offered cover. Ageas avoided Ws policy and provided a refund 
of the premiums paid. This meant, in effect, no policy had existed and the claim would not be 
covered.
W said this was unfair and that they had acted reasonably when presenting the risk to the 
broker  who in turn provided it to Ageas. W said no guidance had been given by the broker 
in relation to the roof construction and how important a factor it was to Ageas.
W also says the question about the roof is ambiguous and misleading. And that Ageas is 
acting disproportionately bearing in mind the roof construction wasnt material to the claim. 
W say Ageas should prove beyond doubt that they wouldnt have offered the policy to them.
W also complained about the way the claim was initially handled and the length of time it 
took for the roof issue to come to light. W said Ageas were rude and unhelpful and that the 
delay in avoiding the policy led to tenant related losses.
Ageas looked into the matter, but they maintained they were entitled to avoid the policy as 
they wouldnt have provided it with proper knowledge of the roof. They also didnt consider 
there to have been any significant delays on their part nor did they accept the loss adjuster 
was rude.
W brought their case to our service and it was given to an investigator. They explained that 
they felt Ageas had been entitled to avoid the policy. A clear question had been asked and it 
had been answered incorrectly. Had it been answered correctly, Ageas wouldnt have given 
the policy, so they were ok to avoid it. The investigator felt the service had been acceptable 
too.
W didnt agree. They reiterated that the question about construction of the building is poor 
and that it has three parts to it. W said it couldnt be answered with just one answer. W also 
said the roof wasnt damaged and so wouldnt be part of the claim anyway. Finally, W said if 
the roof construction was so important to Ageas they should have made that clear.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the case was been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue for me to consider here is whether or not Ageas were entitled to avoid Ws 
policy. There are several things for me to look at, including the clarity of the question asked, 
and whether W sought to mislead Ageas. The rules applicable in this situation are set out in 
the Insurance Act 2015.
W was required to provide Ageas with a fair presentation of the risk. That includes disclosure 
of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know. Or, failing that, 
disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put the insurer on notice that it 
needs to make further enquiries.
Ageas says the question asked by the broker was Is the property of standard construction, 
so brick walls and slate or a tile roof only? and that W answered Yes. Further, W was 
provided with a schedule of insurance which had a similar question:
Are the walls constructed of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates, tiles or 
concrete? with the answer being recorded as Yes.
It is not in dispute that Ws property had a flat felt roof and so the correct answer to those 
questions couldnt be yes. I appreciate Ws point that the question has several parts to it and 
if hed answered no then other parts would have been wrong. But collectively, the correct 
answer is no, because the statement cannot be agreed to in its entirety.
I know it has also been said that W had relied on a survey report which had incorrect 
information about the roof. But I think its fair to say that W, as the owner, ought reasonably 
have known the construction of their propertys roof.
So, as the question wasnt answered correctly this is known as a qualifying breach. A 
qualifying breach can be deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless.
Ageas, nor I, consider the breach to have been deliberate or reckless. In those 
circumstances, if the insurer would not have entered into the contract on any terms, the 
insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, but must in that event return the 
premiums paid.
Ageas have provided evidence to show that they wouldnt have insured the property if theyd 
been told it had a flat felt roof. This means Ageas may avoid the policy and return the 
premiums; which is what they did. That puts everyone in the position that theyd have been 
in  but for the misrepresentation.
It may be helpful for me to say at this stage that Ageas doesnt have to prove beyond doubt 
that they wouldnt have provided the policy to W, but in any event Im satisfied from their 
underwriters that the risk wasnt one theyd have accepted.
I appreciate W says this is overly harsh, given the roof wasnt damaged by the fire and that 
their answer to the question was partially right. But overall, the answer wasnt correct and 
the Insurance Act 2015 allowed Ageas to take the action they did, so I cant say Ageas was 
wrong to do so in this case.
Turning to how long it took for Ageas to make their decision on the avoidance, I see that the 
flat roof was identified within around a week of the claim, and because that would affect the claim/policy it was investigated further. Its possible Ageas could have made the decision to 
have avoided the policy at that point but, to be fair to W, they first investigated to check 
whether there was a qualifying breach. I think its only reasonable for insurers to act in this 
way, in fact its how Id expect them to act.
That it took until June 2021 for Ageas to confirm their decision to avoid the policy, and the 
reasons why, isnt excessive in my mind. I appreciate it probably could have been done 
more quickly  although required some input from the broker  but it does appear to have 
been done to ensure the Insurance Act 2015 was being applied correctly. And but for Ws 
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have been necessary so I dont think it would be reasonable to 
require compensation to be paid in this instance.
I appreciate the point W has made about this being a decisive and important factor in 
whether the claim, and policy, stands or not. But the statement of fact provided to W does 
contain the following:
Any incorrect information must be notified to your agent immediately since providing us with 
inaccurate information or failing to tell us of anything which may increase the risk may lead 
to this quotation being withdrawn or, if the risk is placed on cover, your policy being voided 
or claims not being paid or being paid in part only.
So, while Ageas didnt explicitly detail what risks they do and do not accept they did provide 
a reasonable warning about the importance of providing accurate information. I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to set out all of the unacceptable risks as it would make documentation 
very lengthy, and would also be considered commercially sensitive.
In that respect, I note what W has said about having no help from the broker. But the broker 
he used was his agent who would have their own responsibilities in ensuring W had suitable 
cover. I cant consider any concerns W may have about his broker in this case as theyd 
have to be raised separately.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman