DRN-2825373
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE increased the premium for his life time pet 
policy for his dog unreasonably and unfairly.
What happened
Mr S took his policy for his dog which is underwritten by HDI in August 2012. In July 2020 he 
received a renewal invite and he noted his premium was going to increase from £1,534.08 to 
£2,991.48.
Mr S brought another complaint about this to his broker which is dealt with separately. The 
broker was responsible for any information Mr S was given when he first took out the policy, 
they didnt warn him that these life policies do increase as claims are made and the pet 
ages. Compensation was awarded to Mr S for this lack of warning.
HDI as the underwriter sets the price of the premium for Mr S policy each year. And on the 
basis the broker was responsible for setting the premium raised a complaint with HDI. It 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. The investigator also didnt think HDI had done 
anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
This service has no remit or authority to tell any insurer what premium price to charge for the 
risks presented. Thats a commercial decision for each insurer to decide for themselves 
within the regulations detailed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our remit extends 
to ensuring a policyholder such as Mr S here, hasnt been singled out and treated differently 
and consequently unfairly to any other policyholder of the insurer, namely HDI.
As the investigator explained, its not unusual that the premium for life time pet policies 
increase as the pet insured ages and more claims are being made. Thats because the risk 
profile changes. Also, such things as inflation, increase in costs of vet treatment as that 
develops and gets more complex, increases in the cost of medications all adds to the 
increase in premium too. More so since life time policies continue to provide cover for long 
term or chronic conditions too. 
I interrogated HDI on the methodology used to calculate Mr S premium and it shared the 
methodology it used. I cant share that with Mr S as its commercially sensitive information 
and we publish our decisions. But I am assured that HDI hasnt singled out Mr S unfairly. 
And it hasnt treated him any differently to any other policyholder in the same circumstances, 
with the age and breed type of his dog.
So, on that basis theres nothing to show me that it has done anything wrong in the setting of 
the price of Mr S premium. 
My final decision
So, whilst I do understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman