DRN-3262045
The complaint
Mr Y complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly declined his request for an increase in his 
overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr Y is a long-standing customer of Lloyds and in March 2020 he telephoned them to 
request an increase in his overdraft facility, back to a similar level he had enjoyed in the past 
with them. Mr Y says he has experienced previous service issues with Lloyds in the past and 
again here Lloyds service was poor. Mr Y says he wished to increase his overdraft to allow 
him to make essential payments, pending funds arriving from an investment elsewhere, over 
the next few days. Mr Y says despite explaining this he was told he needed to visit a branch 
to put in an application, but Mr Y explained he couldnt because he was in isolation due to 
the Covid pandemic. 
Subsequently, Mr Y receive a phone call from a member of Lloyds staff who told him his 
request for an increased overdraft facility had been declined and this decision couldnt be 
overturned. Mr Y says he has no idea why the request for the increase has been declined 
given his excellent credit rating and track record and he wasnt given the opportunity to 
discuss this with a bank official at the time. Mr Y says he has had to cash in an ISA and lost 
the benefit of that account, as a result of Lloyds actions and would like them to provide the 
overdraft facility he requested.
Lloyds says the application to increase Mr Ys overdraft facility was declined based on a 
number of factors, but that didnt mean they didnt believe he wasnt a good customer. 
Lloyds say they did pay Mr Y £40 for the poor service he had received when trying to get 
through to them that day. 
The investigator looked at all of the information available, but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
While the investigator felt Lloyds could have explained the decision to decline the overdraft 
request more clearly to Mr Y, he felt Lloyds had acted fairly in making the decision they did. 
The investigator felt Lloyds had acted reasonably when they offered Mr Y £40 for the time he 
had spent on the telephone trying to contact them. The investigator didnt feel Lloyds had 
done anything wrong.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr Y to have his request 
for an overdraft facility declined by Lloyds, without having the opportunity to discuss this with 
a more senior member of their staff. 
Mr Y has suggested he experienced numerous other problems in the past with Lloyds and 
although I can see that is of concern to him, here I can only consider the complaint brought 
to us specifically concerning his request for an overdraft facility being declined. Its not for 
this service to tell banks like Lloyds how its systems must work, thats something for the 
Financial Conduct Authority. What I will consider, is whether Lloyds acted unfairly when they 
told Mr Y he must visit a branch to consider his overdraft request, and if their decision to 
decline his request was fair.
Mr Y feels he has been unfairly treated by Lloyds as they refused to increase his overdraft 
facility back to an overdraft limit he had previously enjoyed some time before. Mr Y says, the 
only option open to him from Lloyds, was for him to visit a branch to discuss the matter in 
more detail, but he couldnt do that because he was in isolation as a result of the Covid 
pandemic. 
I understand the points Mr Y makes, and amongst the other information I have seen, I have 
listened to two telephone call recordings. The first call made on 19 March 2020, at which 
point Mr Y complained about the service and at the same time requested his overdraft limit 
to be increased. Then on 20 March 2020, when a complaint manager from Lloyds made a 
follow up telephone call.
During the first call the operator from Lloyds is trying to help, despite the fact he was from a 
different department and its fair to say Mr Y recognises this during that call. Mr Y, during the 
telephone call requests for his overdraft to be reinstated to a level similar to a facility he had 
previously. Here, Mr Y suggests the limit should be in the region of £12,000 and explains 
initially, this was needed pending a payment due into his bank account from another 
investment he had. The operator then speaks to the overdraft team in Lloyds, without 
providing any further details, who simply inform him they can only approve facilities up to 
£4,999 and Mr Y would need to visit a branch if he wanted to secure a higher limit. The 
operator then relays this to Mr Y, who says he cant do that as hes isolating due to Covid 
and expresses his disappointment. 
The following day, Mr Y then receives a telephone call from a complaint manager, who offers 
his apologies for the service problems and goes onto explain why the overdraft facility wasnt 
approved and mentions amongst other factors, that they needed to see regular income 
levels through his bank account, and they needed to be happy with any new overdraft limit 
agreed was sustainable. This is then reiterated in a letter to Mr Y, dated the same day, by 
the same complaint manager. 
Its worth mentioning here, during the call made from the complaint manager on 20 March 
2020 he says,  I gather weve declined your request. So, this comment made by the 
complaint manager suggests Lloyds have reviewed Mr Ys request and declined it  but I 
cant see they had. This is where I have an issue, as from the information I have seen, at the 
time this telephone call was made, no one in Lloyds, apart from the initial call operator had 
been made aware of the circumstances of Mr Ys request. So here, at the time of the 
telephone call, it wasnt so much a case of Mr Y having been declined previously, just that 
hed been told he needed to visit a branch to apply for such a facility, but he couldnt, 
because of his self-isolation at that time.  
Lloyds have told this service, at the time the telephone call was made, Mr Ys account had 
been subject to an internal computer assessment, but its fair to say that assessment 
wouldnt have been with the benefit of Mr Ys current specific circumstances or 
requirements, as he hadnt been allowed to put forward his request to a lending department 
in the bank, who could have approved or declined it. 
I should say, Im not suggesting even if Mr Y had been able to visit the branch or discuss in detail his request for an increased overdraft facility, Lloyds were obliged to approve it, as that 
would be subject to their lending criteria, and they are entitled to make that business 
decision. But here, the only option given to Mr Y for his overdraft request to be considered, 
was to visit a branch knowing he couldnt, and no other options were made available to him. 
While I am aware this happened at a time the Covid pandemic had taken hold, this was prior 
to any guidance given to banks like Lloyds from the Financial Conduct Authority, or any 
major alterations were made by banks to their processes. So, when coming to my decision 
here, for the purposes of this complaint, its fair to say Lloyds were generally carrying out its 
business as usual and operating, more or less as they had previously. 
Its fair to say Lloyds are entitled to have processes in place, for their lending purposes, but I 
also take the view, such processes shouldnt disadvantage its customers from being given 
alternative options in exceptional circumstances. Here Mr Y made clear he wasnt able to 
visit the branch to discuss his request for an increased overdraft because he was in 
isolation, but I cant see that Lloyds gave him any other alternative, even knowing that. 
While I cant say that Mr Y has been financially disadvantaged as his overdraft request may 
have been declined, Im satisfied he hasnt been treated fairly, for the reasons I have already 
given. With that in mind, I propose Lloyds pay Mr Y £200 in addition to the £40 they have 
already paid, for the inconvenience this has caused him.
While Lloyds will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome. 
Both Mr Y and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr Y and Lloyds until the 19 December 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Both Mr Y and Lloyds accepted the outcome of my provisional decision, although 
Mr Y felt the proposed award for the trouble and upset caused, should have been for a 
higher amount. 
Mr Y felt this didnt cover for the time and work he had expended here. Mr Y says while he 
understood this service couldnt dictate Lloyds lending policy or underwrite any losses on 
his ISA, he felt Lloyds served him poorly here. 
I understand the points Mr Y makes and I note that he accepts the adjudication here. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, there was no financial disadvantage here as there was 
no guarantee that Lloyds would have approved his borrowing request. The award for trouble 
and upset suggested in my provisional decision, wasnt meant to penalise Lloyds for not 
giving Mr Y the opportunity to discuss his requirements, but to recognise he wasnt treated 
as I would expect. This reflects the fact, the only option given to Mr Y was to visit a branch, 
even though he couldnt because of self-isolation. So, I cant say this changes my original 
decision and see no need to change or add to this, and so my final decision remains the 
same.
Putting things right.I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr Y £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr Y £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman