DRN-4440182
Complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that it should never have approved this 
unaffordable agreement for him.
Background
In January 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr T with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £8,394.00. Mr T paid a deposit of £1,994.00 and took out a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,400.00. The loan had interest and 
charges of £6,155.20 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£12,155.20 (not including Mr Ts deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£212.80.
Mr T complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ts 
complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ts complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr T before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr T provided details of his monthly 
income, which it verified against copies of payslips which it asked Mr T to provide in support 
of his application. 
It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr T which had shown Mr T had previously 
defaulted on credit but the account had been fully settled. The credit search also showed 
that Mr T also had county court judgments (CCJ) taken out against him. Although, in 
Moneybarns view, this was all historic bearing in mind the most recent CCJ was more than 
a year prior to this application.
In any event whats important here is that, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr T 
already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ts living expenses were deducted from his 
monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr T says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr T and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ts living costs given what Moneybarn saw on the credit search it carried out. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ts actual regular 
living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ts actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what Moneybarn is likely to have done if it obtained 
the information I think it should have done. I say this because the information Mr T has 
provided about his finances at the time appears to show that when his visible committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ts actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information he provided to Moneybarn showed. For example, Mr T says that 
his salary was inflated with overtime and expenses at this time. And Mr T has referred to 
being behind on his utility payments at the time too. 
However, Mr T chose to apply for finance at this time and in particular at a time where he 
says that his income was higher than usual. As I understand it, Moneybarn averaged three 
months worth of payslips which is the norm across the industry. Equally, I have to take into 
account that Mr T made no attempt to clarify the position despite having been asked to 
provide payslips to verify his income. 
Additionally, Moneybarn wasnt aware of Mr Ts utility arrears as this was unlikely to be 
showing on the credit search it carried out. I wouldnt expect a lender to factor in 
commitments it could not reasonably be expected to know about. So while I do appreciate 
that it has proved more difficult for Mr T to make his payments, I dont think that asking for 
more information would have prevented Moneybarn from lending in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr T did go far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr T. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr T. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it intends to collect the 
remaining payments on the agreement and Mr T is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman