DRN-3433821
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
Mr K made a payment of £1,000 in September 2019 to what he believed was an investment. 
He said he was given a moneyback guarantee and was promised a 10% profit on the 
investment each month. 
After his investment disappeared, Mr K contacted Monzo in December 2019 to let it know 
hed been the victim of fraud. Monzo raised a chargeback with the card scheme but it was 
ultimately unsuccessful.  
Mr K believes Monzo should have done more to recover his funds. Monzo doesnt think it 
made an error in following the payment instructions. It also thinks its done enough to try to 
recover the funds.
Our investigator concluded that Monzo hadnt made an error at the time of the payment and 
had done enough to try to recover Mr Ks money. But he disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting position, given the payment was authorised, would be for Monzo to have 
followed the payment instruction. But there are some situations where banks ought to 
have noticed that something wasnt quite right before making the payment. In this 
case, the payment didnt trigger Monzos fraud alert systems.
While I appreciate its a lot of money for Mr K to lose, the payment wasnt significantly 
or unusually high, especially when compared with the relatively recent activity on his 
account. Mr K had made payments of around £889 and £819 in months just prior to 
this payment, so £1,000 wouldnt have stood out as being particularly out of 
character  so I dont think its unreasonable that Monzos systems werent alerted by 
the payment.
Ive looked at external organisations that publish official warnings about merchants 
operating in the UK and abroad. But the company the payment was made to didnt 
appear on these. So Monzo wouldnt reasonably have been expected to know the 
payment was being made to a scammer.
As stated above, the payment didnt trigger on Monzos fraud systems. And Mr K 
didnt speak with Monzo about the payment. So there wasnt a natural opportunity for 
it to identify the payment was possibly being made as part of a scam, and therefore 
intervene.
So, while we now know Mr K was the victim of a scam, I dont think Monzo was 
wrong to process this payment at the time. And I dont think it missed a reasonable 
opportunity to intervene. 
Thinking about what Monzo did to try to recover the money, Im satisfied it took the 
appropriate action. While it was arguably clear from the start that it would be 
unsuccessful, Monzo raised a chargeback claim with the card scheme. Once it had 
been made clear by the card scheme thered be no reasonable prospect of success, 
Monzo opted not to take it further  I dont find that to be have been unreasonable. 
So, in summary, I dont think Monzo failed to intervene with Mr Ks payment. And I think it 
took appropriate steps to recover the funds. For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman