DRN-2902593
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded him in full after he fell victim to a 
scam and lost £60,000.
The bank, under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, has refunded half the 
loss as it recognised it ought to have given Mr M better warnings when making the 
payments. But it believes he should bear responsibility for half of the loss as he failed to 
complete suitable checks before making the payments.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision for this case on 3 March 2021. Ive copied the content 
below. 
Throughout the background Ill be referring to Ms D (a person Mr M met on Facebook) 
and a lawyer. These are the people involved in perpetrating the scam Mr M fell victim 
to. Ill refer to them by those monikers for clarity throughout this decision.
Mr M received a friend request from Ms D, a person he didnt know, on Facebook. He 
says he wouldnt normally accept such requests but could see she played the same 
games as him online.
Mr M and Ms D chatted on Facebook for about a week. She then invited him to talk 
on a messaging app, where they continued to chat for a couple more weeks.
Ms D then told Mr M that her father had passed away and left her a lot of money. She 
didnt want to go into details but said she would put Mr M in contact with her fathers 
lawyer. She gave the lawyers email address and Mr M reached out to him to introduce 
himself.
The lawyer replied to Mr M and explained he worked for a law firm in Ghana and had 
been Ms Ds fathers lawyer. He explained that Ms D had been left $4 million as 
inheritance and that, in order to receive the funds,  [Ms Ds father] categorically stated 
in his will that before her daughter can access and claim the WILL ,she must come forth 
with a foreign beneficiary who will help receive her estates for foreign investments and 
that can only happen when the name on the account has been change from her late 
fathers name into her name or your name. The lawyer included in his email his name 
and title, role within the law firm, details of the firm (including the address) and his 
contact details.
Mr M asked the lawyer if he had a website he could view to understand all of your 
offerings I would be keen to keep a relationship going if its proved to be mutually 
beneficial. The lawyer told Mr M hed removed himself from the website as he was due 
to retire and that this was his last piece of work before doing so. He went on to provide 
Mr M with a copy of his Ghana Bar Association ID card.
Mr M was also provided with a website address and login details for a bank account. 
Mr M has described how, when accessed, the website displayed what appeared to be 
an account with a balance of $4 million.
Discussions continued for a few days and it was explained to Mr M that in order for the 
name to be changed on the account  and for the money to be released  a payment of 
£40,000 would have to be made to the Ministry of Finance. Mr M was put in touch with 
someone claiming to be from the Bank of Africa confirming as much. A copy of a letter 
was provided to Mr M which said the money was due, along with confirming it was for 
the changing of the account name.
Mr M discussed, over a number of emails, options for raising the £40,000 with Ms D 
and the lawyer. This included: seeking a local businessman in Ghana that might lend 
the money; taking the funds from the total balance of the inheritance; securing funds 
against the property Ms D lived in. But Mr M was told none of the options were viable 
and that Ms D had no assets to put toward the £40,000 fee.
Mr M had been looking into a pension drawdown at the time. And as he already had this 
in mind he decided hed use some of this money to pay the £40,000 fee. He went on to 
arrange the drawdown and, shortly after, sent the money to the account details provided 
by the lawyer.
The payment details provided to Mr M were allegedly for a UK based company. Mr M 
was told by the lawyer that he had other dealings with this company and they would 
facilitate the sending of the funds to Ghana. Mr M said he checked online to make sure 
they existed and found a record of the company.
Mr M went to his local branch to make the payment. He remembers speaking to a 
member of staff who processed the payment using a handheld device. Mr M said he 
was paying an investment company and when asked about the purpose he said it was 
for home renovations. The lawyer had instructed him to say as much so that the 
transaction would go through smoothly. The transaction was signed-off by a second 
member of staff and then processed.
Mr M expected the return of his money shortly after, along with confirmation of the 
account name change and release of the inheritance money.
The lawyer confirmed the money had been correctly received but went on to say there 
was now another payment due. This was to receive a secret code from the Ministry of 
Finance that would allow the account name change to go ahead. Mr M agreed to pay 
£20,000 toward this, with the lawyer saying hed pay a further £17,000 himself. But 
once this was paid the lawyer then said tax of $200,000 needed to be paid on the $4 
million before it would be released.
Mr M didnt have funds left to contribute to this and so went to his branch to discuss 
potential options about raising money. It was then that staff said they had concerns and 
thought it might be a scam. Mr M left the branch as he felt too unwell, given what hed 
just heard, to do anything about it there and then. A few days later he reported to the 
bank that he thought hed been the victim of a scam.
The bank attempted to recover the funds from the account the money had been sent 
to. But only £1,373.15 was recovered and repaid to Mr M.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or 
more of those exceptions applies in this case.Lloyds did recognise that it ought to have given Mr M more warnings about scams 
when he was making the payments in branch. The bank has no records of any 
warnings being given and branch staff cant recall anything being discussed. Mr M 
couldnt recall being given any warnings at all.
Because of that, and recognising the provisions of the CRM Code, Lloyds refunded 
50% of Mr Ms loss. But it said he would be liable for the other 50% as it didnt think 
hed had a reasonable basis for believing what he was doing was legitimate. It said hed 
not carried out enough checks to make sure all was as it seemed and that, had he done 
so, the scam could have been avoided.
Mr M disagreed with the banks position. He thought hed done all he could to 
check everything was genuine. And he also felt that had the bank given him any 
warning at all about scams then he wouldnt have gone ahead.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and felt the complaint ought 
to be upheld, with Mr M receiving all of his money back from Lloyds. He thought Mr M 
did have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. In support of this 
view he said, in summary:
this was a sophisticated scam where Mr M was provided with 
convincing correspondence from the lawyer, including a Ghana Bar 
Association ID card;
Mr M was also sent convincing correspondence which appeared to be from the 
Bank of Africa and the Ministry of Finance; and
Mr M was manipulated into believing he was genuinely helping Ms D. 
Lloyds disagreed with this view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not intending to uphold it as I find Lloyds position to be fair 
and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr M authorised the payments that are the subject of this 
complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly 
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, he would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the 
story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is 
the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code), which Lloyds has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr M. The circumstances where a firm may 
choose not to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer 
failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored what the CRM Code 
refers to as an Effective Warning. Lloyds has already acknowledged it didnt provide an 
Effective Warning to Mr M. Thats why its refunded 50% of his loss, accepting that it 
ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for 
Mr Ms loss. That would appear to be a fair and reasonable assessment of Lloyds 
duties here. Afterall, there is almost no evidence Mr M was given any warnings about 
scams. I find the bank ought to have done so under the CRM Code. And even outside 
of the CRM Code, as the payments Mr M were making were out of character and 
unusual, I dont think Lloyds did enough to try to protect Mr M from financial harm.
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is if it can be 
demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable 
basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the 
case, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Lloyds has said it wont refund the remaining 50% of Mr Ms loss as it doesnt think he 
did have a reasonable basis for belief. In particular, it thinks Mr M ought to have 
questioned the unusual situation more and sought to verify the parties involved.
Im in agreement with Lloyds on this and its why Im not currently minded to tell the 
bank it needs to provide further reimbursement. Ill explain why.
First of all, I want to reassure both parties that Ive been careful not to consider what 
went on with the benefit of hindsight. This is because I appreciate certain features of a 
scam are clearer in the cold light of day, once a scam has been revealed. But 
nevertheless, in Mr Ms case, Im not persuaded he had a reasonable basis for believing 
that the person(s) with whom he transacted were legitimate.
As a starting point, its my view that Mr M was presented with an improbable set of 
circumstances prior to making the first payment of £40,000  in that he was being asked 
to be a foreign participant to the unlocking of a $4 million inheritance in Ghana. In 
addition to the very unusual circumstances, there were a number of warning signs that 
the arrangement might not have been legitimate and as a result Im satisfied Mr M 
ought to have questioned what was happening more thoroughly before making the 
payment.
In reaching that conclusion, at the time Mr M made the first payment, Im mindful that:
hed been asked to help secure an unusually large inheritance from someone 
hed known for only three weeks and never met in person;
there had been no prior exchanges of money between Mr M and Ms D to 
establish legitimacy and trust; the £40,000 payment is the first request for 
financial help;theres no explanation as to why such a large sum  or any charge at all  
would be required to change the name on an account;
the requirement for a foreign party to assist in securing the inheritance, 
when a lawyer was already available and working on the estate, seems 
improbable;
Mr M was told there was a will but he didnt ever see  or ask to see  a 
copy, despite his proposed financial involvement in Ms Ds affairs;
Ms D appears to have had no cash or assets to contribute toward the fee, 
despite being the daughter of a millionaire;
the contact details given to Mr M for the lawyer and the bank manager were 
from free, public email providers rather than being specific to the 
professional and/or government organisations the individuals claimed to 
work for;
o I accept on this point that when receiving emails from these addresses 
the display name likely reflected what Mr M expected to see. But he 
had been given the email addresses in their plain form.
the emails and other correspondence from the lawyer, bank manager and 
Ministry of Finance are all poorly written  containing a lot of obvious typos 
along with spelling and grammar mistakes  despite being from professional 
and official sources and regarding legal and financial matters;
the Ghana Bar Association ID has numerous spelling errors;
the lawyer claimed to have removed himself from his website and there doesnt 
appear to have been an attempt to confirm he worked where he said he did, 
when it would have been possible to do so;
Mr M asked a few times if there would be any implications in terms of tax, 
duties and costs associated with securing the inheritance, but these questions 
went unanswered;
Mr M checked the intermediary company, to be used for getting the money to 
Ghana, existed by finding it on Companies House. But it seemed to operate in 
an unrelated industry (wholesale of dairy products, eggs and edible oils and fats; 
non-specialised wholesale trade; and retail sale of other second-hand goods in 
stores (not incl. antiques)), and the business address is different to the one 
given to Mr M. And it seems Mr M didnt speak to anyone at that business about 
the payment he was making;
Mr M hid what he believed to be the true purpose of the payment from the 
bank and didnt question the lawyer about why he was encouraged to do so.
Whilst Ive not looked at what happened with the benefit of hindsight, I have to consider 
what Mr M was being told, and what he was being presented with at the time, and 
consider whether he acted reasonably in the face of all of that. And its the collective 
body of all of the evidence, rather than each piece of evidence in isolation, that lead me 
to conclude Mr M has not met the requisite level of care required by the Code. It may 
not be the case, for example, that if the only warning sign here had been the use of 
public email addresses, or that the correspondence was poorly written, that I would 
reach the same outcome. Overall, I find the checks carried out by Mr M, in view of the 
unusual and suspicious circumstances that he was presented with when he was first 
asked to provide financial support, were insufficient to establish a reasonable basis for 
belief.
I can see from the correspondence that Mr M seems to have been given access to a website designed to look like an active account. This was almost certainly a fake 
website though its not possible for me to now view this website and there have been no 
screenshots of it presented. So theres no way for me to know what it looked like; 
though I accept Mr M appears to have found it convincing at the time. But even if it was 
particularly convincing, as Ive explained, there were a number of other elements to this 
scam which I dont find convincing, and as a result I dont think this ought to have 
outweighed the other warning signs that something was amiss, or persuaded Mr M that 
he had a reasonable basis for believing what he was engaged in was legitimate.
Ive focused on the first payment for much of what Ive discussed here. Thats because 
I find it holds the closest challenge to whether Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief. I 
believe that the subsequent reasons given for requiring more money became less 
believable and ought reasonably to have caused growing concern. And so any case for 
refunding the second payment becomes weaker, rather than stronger, in terms of 
whether Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief that he was making a legitimate 
payment.
With all of the above in mind I believe the banks decision to refund half of Mr Ms loss 
under the CRM Code was fair and reasonable.
Ive also taken into account what a fair outcome to this case should be if there was no 
CRM Code. Having done so, Id still find that Lloyds ought to have done more to have 
protected Mr M from falling victim to a scam, but for the reasons Ive explained, I also 
think its fair that Mr M takes a share of the responsibility for his losses, due to his own 
actions and/or omissions. I think its fair and reasonable that responsibility for the loss 
be shared equally.
I do sympathise with Mr M and accept he has been the victim of a cruel scam and I 
dont doubt he believed he was genuinely assisting Ms D at the time he was caught 
up in this scam. But in light of all the evidence I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. Ill consider any 
final submissions from the involved parties before issuing my final decision.
Mr M replied to say that he didnt accept the provisional decision. He felt the bank ought to 
bear full responsibility for his loss given it had failed to question him about the unusual 
transactions at all and gave him no warnings about scams. He believes that had the bank 
done what it should have, the scam would have been revealed and he wouldnt have lost 
anything. 
Mr M also believes he carried out sufficient checks before making the payments, and so had 
a reasonable basis for believing he was making them for legitimate purposes. Hes said, I 
am not that technically savvy so carried out the checks that I could and I had completed 
some checks I had received some evidence and I had spoken with the lawyer on the 
telephone so from my point of view without the hindsight I was believing what was stated.
Mr M also said he felt he was vulnerable to this type of scam because of his mental state at 
the time. He described a series of life events and medical conditions that had developed 
over several years which he says left him in a state of low mood and anxiety at the time the 
scam happened. And following the scam he was diagnosed with depression, being 
prescribed medication to treat it. And so he felt the section of the CRM Code that addressed vulnerable customers applied in his situation and that he ought to be refunded by the bank 
as a result.
I responded to Mr M informally before issuing this final decision to say that I didnt believe 
the points hed raised, including those relating to his health and vulnerability, led me to a 
different outcome. Mr M has since provided further responses and so Ill address everything 
in my findings below.
The bank hasnt been in contact following my provisional decision and so Im proceeding 
without further comment from it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. Much of my reasoning remains the same as that set out 
in my provisional decision. Ive expanded on some of that reasoning where I believe its 
appropriate to do so. And Ive also included some further findings, particularly around 
considerations of Mr Ms mental and physical health.
Should the bank have done more at the time Mr M was making the payments?
Mr M is strongly of the opinion that the bank should have done more when it made the 
payments. Hes restated how it gave no warning about scams when either payment was 
made, and nor did it question him about either payment to make sure everything was ok. 
Im in agreement with Mr M that the bank has not fulfilled its obligations here. And I said as 
much in my provisional decision. I explained that even if the payments werent covered by 
the CRM Code, Id have expected the bank to have done more. They ought to have 
identified them as out of character transactions for Mr M and recognised they were high risk 
payments. That should have led to detailed questioning by the bank and suitable warnings 
ought to have followed. And I agree theres a good chance the scam would have been 
uncovered as a result, with all loss being avoided.
This is why Lloyds has accepted 50% liability of Mr Ms loss. It accepts it failed to fulfil its 
obligations both under the CRM Code and when considering other established industry best 
practice and guidance. And so it should bear some responsibility for Mr Ms loss. But that 
isnt the end of the matter - Mr Ms own actions need to be considered too. 
Under the Code a firm is able to deny full reimbursement, even if it hasnt met the standards 
for firms, if a customer didnt meet their requisite level of care. That is, when a customer 
ignored effective warnings by failing to take appropriate action in response to them, or the 
customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing the transactions were 
for legitimate purposes, or where the customer was grossly negligent. Here Lloyds has 
argued that Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. 
Outside of the Code, where I find a firm ought fairly and reasonably to have done more to 
protect a customer from financial harm, I must go on to consider whether the customer also 
contributed towards the loss they incurred. And if so, whether they should in turn bear any 
responsibility for the loss. 
So Ive thought about whether, in all the circumstances of this complaint, Mr M should bear 
some responsibility of the loss. Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for believing the transactions were for legitimate purposes 
and did his actions contribute to his loss?
I found in my provisional decision that Mr M did not have a reasonable basis for belief that 
the payments he was making were for legitimate purposes and being made to legitimate 
parties. Ive considered what hes said since then, but my findings here remain unchanged. 
Im satisfied that Mr M, considering all the circumstances of the case and his personal 
characteristics, ought to have recognised the improbable nature of what had been presented 
and ought reasonably to have questioned it more than he did.
Mr M hasnt responded to all of the points I set out in my provisional decision, and I wouldnt 
necessarily expect him to. But there are a couple of points that Id like to expand on, in light 
of Mr Ms further comments.
Mr M has said hes not technically savvy and that he carried out the checks that I could. 
Im not suggesting Mr M is more confident with technology than he says. But it is the case 
that Im not satisfied he carried out sufficient checks on the parties involved. And I dont think 
the steps and checks I suggested in my provisional decision required in depth technical 
knowledge or experience in order to recognise them as reasonable steps to take; particularly 
when being asked to make such large payments in what was an improbable set of 
circumstances.
Im persuaded that what was presented by the lawyer was largely taken at face value by Mr 
M, despite concerning features of not just the correspondence, but even the official 
identification card that was presented. Im not persuaded a person needs to be technically 
savvy, or be a fraud and scams expert, to recognise these as features that might call into the 
question the legitimacy of whats being presented to them. But Mr M didnt take steps to 
otherwise verify the lawyer was who he said he was or that he was a legitimate party. Mr M 
instead seems to have relied, for the most part, on what he was being told by the lawyer on 
the phone and in emails  and as Ive explained, for the emails at least, I think there were 
some warning signs contained within them that all might not be above board.
Mr M has said that he did check the intermediary company involved in the payments and 
found them on Companies House. But there was no contact with the company and there 
was no checking of basic details, such as their registered address, to try and ensure some 
legitimacy. While I wouldnt necessarily expect consumers to check a companys registered 
address every time they were involved in a transaction, I think Mr M ought to have 
conducted extra checks here because of the implausible situation he was presented with, as 
well as the fact the company appeared to operate in an entirely unrelated industry. Its also 
the case that Mr M had no previous contact with this company, he didnt know who he was 
sending money to, or how it might reach its intended destination.  Mr M had recognised the 
need to check the company and found a means to do so, but he didnt go on to take 
reasonable steps to satisfy himself that all was as it seemed. And what is demonstrated here 
is an ability on Mr Ms part to recognise risk and take some steps to address that risk. But I 
dont find its fair to say he was understandably satisfied with what he found. Not to the 
extent of accepting there was no risk behind sending £40,000 to a company with whom he 
had no direct relationship and to whom he had not spoken or corresponded with at all. 
I dont intend to go on and address the other points set out in my provisional decision. Most 
havent been commented on by Mr M and nothing Mr M has said persuades me they dont 
still apply.
For all of the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr M did 
not have a reasonable basis for belief that he was making legitimate transactions and that 
insufficient checks were carried out to ensure the legitimacy of the situation. This isnt to say that I dont believe Mr M thought he was engaged in something genuine. Instead I find that 
he ought reasonably to have recognised the scenario as unusual to the point of it being 
suspicious, and then ought to have carried out sufficient checks to determine its legitimacy. I 
believe that, had he done so, the scam would have been revealed.
I accept Mr and Mrs M feel that Lloyds couldve prevented the scam through better 
conversations in branch. And as Ive said, I also think this is likely to have been the case. 
However, outside of the Code Ive also thought about whether Mr M acted reasonably, taking 
into account all of the circumstances of the scam. 
While Lloyds couldve done more in branch, Im mindful Mr M was willing to mislead the 
bank, by giving false reasons for the payments. Mr M was told to misinform the bank about 
the true purpose of the funds to help the payments go through smoothly, which I think can 
only be taken to mean that the bank would be less likely to ask questions about it. And whilst 
I can see why Mr M might have wanted the payment to go through quickly and without 
hassle, I think this ought to have caused further alarm; he ought to have questioned why he 
was being encouraged to avoid the banks fraud prevention measures. I think, in these 
circumstances, it wouldve been more difficult for the bank to accurately assess whether or 
not he was at risk of financial harm so that it could easily unravel the scam and/or break the 
spell which Mr M was acting under. Im also mindful Mr M hasnt said the situation frightened 
him such that he felt forced to act in the way he did. He wasnt being coerced or pressured 
into making the payments, as is often the case when customers give their bank false 
reasons for making a payment. Ive taken this into account when thinking about whether Mr 
M should bear some responsibility for the loss. 
And as Ive explained, I also have some concerns about the lack of checks Mr M conducted 
before making the payments given the implausibility of the situation and the concerns I think 
Mr M ought reasonably to have held. 
So while I think Lloyds ought to have done more to satisfy itself Mr M wasnt falling victim to 
a scam, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to say it should refund the 
entire amount he lost. I think Mr M should also bear some responsibility for his loss. And 
given Lloyds has already refunded 50% of what Mr M lost, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to ask it to do any more.
Is Mr M due a refund under the CRM Code, considering what it says about customers that 
might be vulnerable to APP scams?
Mr M has highlighted this section of the Code and, since bringing his complaint to us and 
having received the provisional decision, has given more detail of his health conditions, the 
history behind them, and how they impact him. He believes they affected him at the time to 
such an extent that he ought to be reimbursed under this part of the Code. Hes said his 
decision making process was flawed as a result of his afflictions. 
I wont include all of the detail regarding what Mr M has been through, but its clear to me 
there have been a number of traumatic life events over the years, as well as some significant 
health conditions. Mr M has explained how these have, over time, contributed to a feeling of 
low mood and anxiety. Following the scam, and its impact on him, Mr M has explained how 
he was tipped into a diagnosed depression with medication prescribed as a result. 
Im sorry to hear of all Mr M has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also whats 
happened to him at other times in his life.  Ive no doubt that Mr M has been through a lot 
and I dont doubt that his mental health has suffered as a result. And the scam has clearly 
impacted him further. I dont question his low mood, anxiety and depression. But I have to consider what the CRM Code says about vulnerability and when it might lead to a refund, 
even when a customer hasnt met their requisite level of care. Specifically, the Code says:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
And so I must consider whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mr M 
was unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to recognise steps he might 
take to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the fraudsters. To do so I must 
consider the details of the scam, Mr Ms actions throughout, and the wider circumstances of 
what was happening in Mr Ms life at the time.
I empathise with Mr M and all hes been through, but I dont find it is unreasonable to expect 
that he could have protected himself from the scam. Again, I dont doubt Mr Ms struggles 
with his mental and physical health or how it affects him. But there is evidence within the 
circumstances and what Mr M has told us that suggest he was capable of taking steps to 
protect himself from fraud and financial harm. That is to say there was more he might 
reasonably have done that would have led to the scam being uncovered and having thought 
very carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M have told me, Im not persuaded that it would 
not be reasonable to expect Mr M to have protected himself against the particular scam he 
fell victim to. Ive already explained some of my thoughts on this to Mr M in our informal 
correspondence. But Ill repeat the relevant detail here.
I can see from how events unfolded that Mr M rationally questioned aspects of what he was 
being told and identified potential risks in proceeding. He questioned the lawyer on 
alternative means of funding for the account name change fee, as an example. And he 
questioned tax and duty implications on such a large sum of money coming into the UK from 
abroad. There is also the limited checking of the intermediary company on Companies 
House. And so there is evidence to show that Mr M was capable of critically analysing the 
situation he was being presented with. Mr M has suggested theres little link between these 
actions and his overall decision making, or ability to question the core details of the scam. 
But I have to disagree with him on this point. I believe his actions show he was capable of 
considering complex issues and seeking answers and in turn I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to have been able to protect himself.
I raised a point with Mr M about his pension drawdown, which provided the funds lost to the 
scam. This drawdown was applied for and successfully completed over the course of the 
scam. And I felt it demonstrated Mr Ms ability to act independently and make informed 
choices. Mr M responded to say it was actually his wife that applied for the drawdown and 
completed it on his behalf. He said there was no direct interaction with a pension adviser. 
Ive no wish to call into question Mr Ms version of events here, but it doesnt tie up with the 
other evidence available. Mr M repeatedly tells the lawyer about his interactions with a 
pension adviser: twice referring to an upcoming meeting, once confirming the meeting has 
taken place and once to say that he will chase the adviser about the release of funds. I cant 
see why Mr M would have misinformed the lawyer at the time and so Im inclined to believe 
his representations there were true; it seems he did go through the drawdown process 
himself and with an adviser involved. And so I believe the point made about acting 
independently and making informed choices stands. And as a further point, the meeting(s) 
and conversation(s) would seem to have presented Mr M with an opportunity to discuss his 
intentions privately, with an impartial individual. It would seem that opportunity wasnt taken. 
But even if Im wrong about the contact with the pension adviser, I believe the evidence still shows that it would not be unreasonable to expect that Mr M could have protected himself 
from the scam. 
While Mr M has told me that hed lost his job prior to falling victim to the scam, he 
successfully applied for a new job with line manager responsibility and had held it for some 
time at the point the scam occurred. I told Mr M I felt this contributed again to the picture of 
him being in a position to have protected himself from the scam, given he went through a 
recruitment process and has held the position for some time. And while I accept Mr Ms 
mental health understandably deteriorated after the scam, Im not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence to suggest he was suffering with it to such an extent at the time of the 
scam that means it would not be reasonable to expect Mr M to have protected himself from 
it. 
I appreciate that Mr M believes that he fell victim to this scam as a result of his poor mental 
health and his resulting struggles with decision making. But I find that the events that have 
occurred around the time of the scam lead me to say it would be reasonable to expect that 
Mr M was able to protect himself from it. There were aspects that ought to have stood out as 
suspicious to him, and there were checks he could have reasonably made, even when 
considering his characteristics and ill health at the time. I also accept that Mr Ms state of 
mind could vary significantly over time; mental health is rarely something that is a constant. 
But given how long a period Mr M was caught up in the scam, and the evidence to show his 
ability to rationalise, Im not persuaded he was unable to protect himself over the course of 
the scam. 
I know that falling victim to this scam has further affected Mr Ms mental health and Im very 
sorry to hear about the impact its had on him. Hes since been diagnosed with depression 
and prescribed medication as a result. And so it seems the events that are the subject of this 
complaint have made Mr Ms mental health worse. I dont doubt that some of these feelings 
were present before the scam and I accept he was struggling with his mental health before 
this happened. But I must base my findings on the evidence thats available and its in 
considering that evidence, and the wider circumstances of what else was happening at the 
time, Ive reached the conclusion that it is wasnt unreasonable for Mr M to have protected 
himself from this particular scam. And so I remain of the view that Lloyds need not refund his 
entire loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman