DRN-2792349
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 4 April 2019, Mr H applied to switch his private medical 
insurance policy to Aviva following advice from an independent financial adviser. Mr Hs 
policy with Aviva started on 1 May 2019. It was on a continued moratorium basis. In 
broad terms, that means that only conditions which Mr H had suffered from in the five 
years before his initial date of cover wouldnt be covered by Aviva. 
In mid-June 2019, Mr H made a claim against the policy in relation to a lump below his 
knee which was causing him pain. Aviva confirmed cover for Mr H to see a specialist  
and later confirmed cover for a procedure. It subsequently sought further information and 
then declined the claim. Mr H complained about that. In response to Mr Hs complaint, 
Aviva said that it would cover the claim and waived the policy excess of £100 by way of 
compensation. 
Aviva later changed its position again. It said that it wouldnt cover the claim as Mr H 
hadnt disclosed that the day before he applied for the policy hed spoken to his GP 
about the pain in his knee. It said that it had previously said it would cover the claim in 
error, as it hadnt recorded correctly some relevant medical information. It offered Mr H a 
voucher for £50 for a high street store by way of compensation. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Aviva thinks that Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he didnt tell it that hed seen his GP about his knee on 3 April 2019, the day 
before he applied to Aviva. 
Ive looked at the switching declaration which Aviva says would have been put to    
Mr H by his financial adviser. It says:
1. Have you or any person to be covered by this policy had any consultations, tests 
or treatment in the last 12 months or do you currently have appointments planned 
with a GP, Specialist or a hospital in the future?
[]
The box marked No was ticked. 
I think that Aviva was entitled to rely on that declaration. It wasnt in fact accurate as 
Mr H had a consultation with his GP on 3 April 2019. I dont think that Aviva was at 
fault in concluding that Mr H hadnt taken reasonable care in answering that question. 
Mr H says that his financial adviser asked him a very similar question to the one Ive 
set out above, but which omitted GP. I dont think that alters the outcome here, as 
even if Mr Hs financial adviser omitted to say GP, he was still asked whether hed 
had any consultations in the last 12 months. Mr Hs visit to his GP on 3 April 2019 
was a consultation. So, it would remain the case that the response on which Aviva 
relied wasnt accurate. 
In any event, I dont think that I can proceed on the basis of Mr Hs recollection of the 
exact wording of the question when hes recalling events from some considerable 
time ago which wouldnt have been particularly significant to him at the time. In 
addition, Aviva isnt responsible for the sales process in this case. 
Aviva has shown that if it had known the true position, it wouldnt have offered Mr H a 
policy. This means Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one 
under CIDRA.
Instead of cancelling the policy, Aviva excluded the condition from Mr Hs cover. I 
think thats fair.
Aviva is entitled to change its position when new information comes to light, but it 
made errors in dealing with Mr Hs claim. I think that the compensation of £100 Aviva 
has previously offered, and the voucher of £50 Aviva has sent to Mr H is fair, so I 
dont ask it to pay any more. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint as I think that the compensation 
Aviva Insurance Limited has already offered or paid is fair. Aviva Insurance Limited should 
now pay the compensation it has previously offered, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman