DRN-2890925
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the excess sum Calpe Insurance Company Limited asked him to 
pay following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D has an all sections excess policy with Calpe. The terms of that policy mean that for 
any claim made against it, including a claim from a third party, Mr D would have to pay an 
excess of up to £3,000 towards the cost of the claim.
Mr D was in an accident when his car hit another which was parked. The costs to repair the 
third partys car and for a hire car while those repairs were ongoing came to around £2,730. 
As the accident was Mr Ds fault Calpe was liable to cover those costs. And as this sum was 
less than Mr Ds excess, Calpe asked him to reimburse it.
Mr D said the accident was minor and he thought the costs were excessive. So, he didnt 
think it was fair for Calpe to ask him to pay the amount it did. He brought his complaint about 
that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. Eventually the investigator said he thought 
Calpe had handled the matter reasonably.
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint was listed for an ombudsmans review. While the case 
was waiting for my determination we asked Calpe to address an outstanding enquiry 
concerning hire car costs. Despite reminders Calpe didn't reply to that enquiry. And not 
wishing to delay matters further I issued a provisional decision based on limited information.
In summary I said Mr D was aware that he had an all sections excess of £3,000 but he felt 
that the costs to repair the third party's car were excessive. I said wed seen the repair 
invoice and I was satisfied that the repair costs were reasonable.
The third party insurer had also asked Calpe to pay hire car costs. Mr D also thought those 
were excessive. But I noted the hire company had only charged hire costs for a car of the 
same class as the third partys car damaged in the accident. And that Calpe had secured a 
discount when settling the hire car bill. And generally I felt that the rate Calpe had paid for 
the hire car wasn't inflated and so was reasonable.
But, at the time that I issued my provisional decision, Calpe hadn't replied to an outstanding 
query about the period the third party had the hire car for. Wed noted that the repairs to the 
third partys car took 12 days but they had the hire car for 18 days. And as Calpe hadn't 
replied to our requests for information about that I didn't know whether or not it was fair for 
Calpe to have paid for the extra six days hire costs when settling the claim. So I said it 
should reduce the excess it was asking Mr D to pay by a sum equivalent to six days hire car 
costs, which was around £388. And, as it appeared Calpe had been asking Mr D to pay a 
sum higher than was necessary, I said it should pay him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience that caused.
I also addressed a query from Mr D about potential debt collection fees. I said Calpe had told 
us that following our conclusion of the matter, it will recall the debt from the debt collector. 
And, at that time Mr D can agree a repayment plan with Calpe which won't include additional 
debt collection charges. But, Calpe said if Mr D fails to make payment, the debt will be 
referred back to the debt collector which will add 18% interest to the outstanding sum.
Developments 
Calpe replied to my provisional decision. It said that when the third party was told that the 
repairs had been completed on his car he was away on a trip. So he couldn't return the hire 
car at that point but did so as soon as he returned from the trip. And as such it said it would 
have been unreasonable for it to refuse to cover those costs.
Having reviewed that information I issued an amendment to my provisional decision. For 
ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Calpe has  told us that at the time the repairs to the third party's car were completed the 
third party was away on a trip, so they couldn't return their hire car immediately. But they did 
so as soon as they returned from their trip six days later. And in those circumstances I think 
it was reasonable for Calpe to cover all of the hire car costs and to include those within the 
excess figure it asked Mr D to pay.
Its immensely disappointing that it took Calpe almost three months to provide that 
explanation. That's because if it had provided it sooner then I wouldn't have issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint. But, as Im now satisfied that the sum Calpes 
asked Mr D to pay is reasonable, I don't think its handled the matter unfairly.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 29 June 2021, but unless I receive 
additional evidence that causes me to change my opinion, it's likely that my final decision will 
be that I don't uphold Mr D's complaint about Calpe Insurance Company Limited. And I won't 
ask it to take any further action.
Mr D replied to my amended provisional decision. He asked whether it was fair for him to 
cover the extra hire car costs because the third party was late on his trip for six days. He 
asked if the period had been an extra two months would he have had to cover the costs of 
that. He also asked if he was still entitled to compensation. Further he queried whether the 
position with debt collection charges had changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I said in my amended provisional decision that I thought the hire car fees Calpe had paid 
were reasonable. Thats because the third party was away on a trip when the repairs to their 
car were competed. So it's not the case that they were late returning the hire car. But 
rather they were away at the point at which they could have collected their own car. And the 
only reason that the third party had a hire car was because their own car needed repairing 
as a result of the damage Mr D caused to it in the accident. I don't think it would be 
reasonable to expect Calpe to insist that the third party abandon their trip early simply to 
return a hire car that they were in through no fault of their own. That would clearly have been putting them in a worse position. So I think it was fair for Calpe to cover the additional six 
days cost for the hire car. 
Mr D's asked what would have been the position if the third party had been away for two 
months. But the third party wasn't away for two months. So that's not relevant to whether or 
not Calpe paid reasonable hire car costs in this instance. And as Calpe has now provided 
evidence that the costs it paid were reasonable, I think it's fair that it recovers those sums 
from Mr D up to the limit of his excess. A sum he agreed to pay when he took out the policy. 
That means Im not going to instruct Calpe to take any further action. So I don't require it to 
pay any compensation to Mr D.
I can also confirm that Calpe hasn't provided me with an updated position regarding debt 
collection charges. So that position remains as set out in my initial provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman