DRN-4460739
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and Ms T had a policy with Aviva for an unoccupied property. They contacted Aviva 
when they found an escape of water at the property. Aviva accepted the claim and carried 
out drying work and agreed to repair the damage. However, a few months later, Aviva 
requested utility bills to show that an endorsement related to escapes of water had been 
complied with. When the bills were submitted, Aviva decided the endorsement about the 
heating being maintained hadnt been complied with and said it could no longer deal with the 
claim.
When Mr T and Ms T complained, Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
However, it accepted it could have requested and reviewed the utility bills earlier. So, it 
offered £250 as an apology.
So, Mr T and Ms T complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. 
He said it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim because the endorsement hadnt been 
complied with. However, he said it was unfair that Aviva kept the excess when it wasnt 
carrying out the work. He said Aviva should refund the excess.
As Mr T and Ms T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Ive read everything provided by both parties. Where I havent commented on something it 
doesnt mean I havent thought about it or wasnt aware of it. But Ive focussed my 
comments on the points I consider to be the key issues to make a fair and reasonable 
decision.
The policy had an endorsement that said there was no cover for an escape of water from 
November to April unless the central heating was maintained at a minimum of 15 degrees 
Celsius or the water supply had been turned off at the mains and the system drained. From 
what Ive seen the water was on. So, this meant the heating needed to be maintained at 15 
degrees Celsius. 
When Aviva checked the utility bills, it said this didnt show the heating had been on. Only 26 
units of gas were used during the period 9 November 2022 to 12 December 2022. It said this 
was a lot lower than the normal average usage per month. I note that for the period to 4 
January 2023, which included the date the damage was found, the usage seemed to be 
even lower. However, Im aware Mr T and Ms T said they turned off the water, electricity and 
gas when they found the leak.
Mr T and Ms T have said that the heating wasnt on in November as the boiler service kept 
getting cancelled. The boiler was serviced on 2 December 2022 and they said the heating 
was then on at 20 degrees for 24 hours a day. A pipe burst around 18 or 19 December 2022 
causing damage to the property. However, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide, 
based on the utility bills, the heating wasnt maintained to the required temperature and that 
the endorsement wasnt complied with. Im aware Mr T and Ms T have said they werent 
aware of the endorsement. However, the endorsement was on the policy schedule and I 
think it was clearly written. So, on that basis, I think it was fair that Aviva decided there was 
no cover in place for an escape of water and for it to decline the claim.
Mr T and Ms T were also concerned that it took so long for Aviva to request the utility bills 
and to decline the claim. Aviva acknowledged it should have done this earlier. I think the 
£250 compensation it offered was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr T and Ms T have 
said Aviva carried out drying, including removing skirting boards and other items, and they 
would have allowed the property to dry out naturally had the claim been declined earlier. I 
cant say what would have happened if the drying hadnt taken place or whether allowing it to 
dry naturally would have been successful. Im not persuaded that the work Aviva carried out 
while it was still dealing with the claim was unreasonable. But, Im unable to comment on this 
any further.
Im aware Mr T and Ms T paid an excess for the claim. I could see from the records that this 
should have been refunded, but still hadnt been when the complaint came to this service. It 
is my understanding that Aviva might now have refunded this. However, for avoidance of 
doubt, I require Aviva to ensure the excess has been refunded if this hasnt already 
happened.
Putting things right
Aviva should ensure it has refunded the excess for the claim and paid the £250 
compensation it previously offered, if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to refund the excess and to pay the £250 compensation it 
previously offered, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman