DRN-3788908
The complaint
Mrs F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her poor customer service with their security 
measures and rejecting a standing order request. 
Mrs F is represented by members of her family in bringing this complaint. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mrs F 
herself.
What happened
Mrs F transferred £10,000 to a family member on 16 January 2022, but HSBC reversed the 
transaction and Mrs F says that her account was frozen. This was later activated after 24 
hours. Mrs F made the same transaction on 18 January, and she says this was successful 
with no problems. She visited the branch on the same day with a different family member to 
find out why the restriction was placed on her account, but she says the branch staff told her 
that this had to be discussed over the telephone. 
On 8 February, Mrs F says she made another £10,000 transfer to the same family member 
with no problems, but the following day, when she attempted to complete the last £10,000 
transfer this was reversed and after numerous calls the money was resent and stayed in the 
family members account. 
Mrs F says that she completed a standing order to pay for her rent, but HSBC told her that 
they couldnt set up the standing order due to her signature. This meant she had to visit the 
branch which she says its difficult for her to go outside and the branch had no nearby 
parking, so a family member asked the branch staff what identification Mrs F would need, 
which they informed her it would be a driving licence and a passport, but Mrs F didnt hold 
either of these items. Her family member was told that Mrs F would need to give them a call 
to discuss this.
Mrs F says she spoke to HSBC and the call handler told her that they would make an 
appointment for a staff member to visit her, but she has received no contact from HSBC 
about this. She says she wrote a letter to HSBC asking them to set up a standing order for 
her rent with the same signature, which this time they actioned. Mrs F made a complaint to 
HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. They said the payment was held for additional 
checks. They said that all callers needed to complete verification when talking to them and if 
the call handler is unable to verify Mrs F then the call handler was correct to refer her to a 
branch. HSBC said they had a set list of identification documents that they are able to accept 
as verification and they have to complete verification before payments are made.
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. HSBC said they would now offer Mrs F £100 
compensation due to any distress she suffered as a result of the service they provided. Our 
investigator thought that was a fair amount of compensation. He said although HSBC were 
within their rights to carry out additional checks on payments and the standing order request, 
Mrs Fs experience of the service HSBC provided had an impact on her. He noted that 
HSBC have now arranged a dedicated team for Mrs F moving forward. 
Mrs F asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said there seemed to be little importance of her age, health and mobility of 
herself, nor the stress this caused over a prolonged period. She said HSBC had failed to 
treat her fairly in line with the regulators treating customers fairly principles as they arranged 
a home visit for her to try and sort out the situation, but they did not inform her that due to 
the pandemic there were no home visits. She said she is older than when her signature was 
provided to HSBC, yet they never sought a new signature for clarification despite people 
similar to her finding it difficult to be able to maintain a truly consistent signature. 
Mrs F questioned whether HSBC made fair adaptations when asking for documents that she 
didnt possess, such as a driving licence and passport. She said HSBC had possibly broken 
certain aspects of the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) 1995. And in refusing to set up a 
standing order for her rent and without communicating this properly to herself, she was 
worried she could be made homeless. Based on these factors, Mrs F felt the compensation 
offered by HSBC was too low and she should be compensated with £990.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mrs F has complained that HSBC has possibly broken the DDA 1995 and has also failed to 
make reasonable adjustments for her. In other words, she says HSBC has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 as this replaced the DDA 1995 . Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mrs F wants a decision that 
HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to go to Court. However, based 
on what Mrs F has said in relation to HSBC discriminating against her, I am not persuaded 
that HSBC treated Mrs F any differently to other customers in similar situations, I will explain 
why.
Id like to explain to Mrs F that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures - such as when they should restrict a payment leaving an account 
and how often to request an up to date signature). It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution 
service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for 
example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience 
to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
HSBCs terms and conditions allow them to refuse to make payments if they believe there 
may be unauthorised transactions by the account holder. Here, they were concerned that 
Mrs F may not have authorised the payments she wanted to make and thats why they 
blocked the payments until they were satisfied that she was genuinely making the payment and she had not been coerced into transferring large sums of money into a third party 
account. While the funds were legitimately going to a family member to repay money back to 
her, HSBC would still need to ensure the protection of Mrs Fs account. While I can 
sympathise that this would have been frustrating or stressful, Im not persuaded that HSBC 
did anything wrong here.
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about the identification. I have listened to a phone call 
where identification was discussed. The call handler told Mrs Fs family member that Mrs F 
could use photographic identification. The family member told the call handler that she didnt 
have a passport or a driving licence. The call handler was asked can she take in erm a bill 
with the address on, I mean shell have a bank statement with her address on the call 
handler replies you can also bring that and just ID that she has because its the branch that 
err verify her. They then discuss the branch and a phone number and the family member 
tells her they will look it up online.
So Im satisfied that HSBC would have been able to accept other identification apart from a 
passport and driving licence. Mrs Fs family member said she would look up the branch 
details online. On HSBCs website they show acceptable identification which would include 
items such as a tax notification or letter from the Department for Work and Pensions and for 
address identification items such as council tax, utility bills, phone bills, bank statements etc. 
So Im persuaded that HSBC did make fair adaptations as non-photographic identification 
was acceptable to them also. I would not expect a call handler to know all of the acceptable 
branch identification documents, but the call handler did advise that she asks the branch for 
what they would accept.
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about it being difficult to maintain a truly consistent 
signature due to her individual circumstances. But while I have sympathy for the position she 
found herself in here, especially as this was for her rent payment and she was concerned 
she could be made homeless, I cant say HSBC did anything wrong by rejecting the standing 
order instruction if they deemed the signature didnt match their records. I say this as they 
would have a duty of care to ensure the request was genuine before authorising this. If they 
accepted a signature which wasnt similar, this could potentially leave Mrs Fs account open 
to fraud or unauthorised use of her account. And while in this instance it was a genuine 
request, HSBC did not know this based on the signature and this is why they wrote to her to 
alert her of the signature mismatch. 
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about her not being treated fairly when a home visit was 
to be arranged for her, but this never happened. And I agree that HSBC let her down here. 
They set an expectation that Mrs F would receive a home visit to resolve her issues, but they 
didnt inform her that due to the pandemic that this could not have been arranged. It seems 
the issue occurred due to the call handler not being aware that home visits wouldnt take 
place due to the pandemic. I can see a memo was sent to the branch for a home visit and 
they left a note to state they were unable to do these, but nobody informed Mrs F of this. So 
overall I am satisfied that HSBC does make reasonable adjustments for customers in this 
position. However, due to the pandemic it was not possible for someone to visit her home, 
which Im satisfied was reasonable given the circumstances of the pandemic. 
But this will have distressed Mrs F when no contact happened. She was further 
inconvenienced as she had to write to HSBC again with the standing order request  which 
wouldnt have been necessary if she received a home visit. Ive noted that HSBC have now 
arranged a dedicated team for Mrs F moving forward, but she will have still been distressed 
and inconvenienced for what happened here.
So Ive considered what compensation would be fair and reasonable here. I know Mrs F 
feels that £100 compensation is not enough based on her age, health and her mobility, nor the stress this caused over a prolonged period as a result of HSBCs actions. But 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Im persuaded £100 is fair and proportionate for what happened here, and Im persuaded 
that it recognises the impact of the distress and inconvenience that Mrs F will have suffered 
as a result of the poor service she received from HSBC for the reasons Ive already given. 
HSBCs offer of compensation is in line with what I would have awarded if they did not offer 
her any compensation. So it follows Ill be asking HSBC to pay Mrs F the £100 
compensation that they offered her if they havent already paid this, but I dont require them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs F £100 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £100 to Mrs F if they havent already 
done so. But I dont require them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman