DRN-3695796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
calculated their travel insurance claim settlement. My references to Red Sands include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a single trip travel insurance policy for their trip to the US, insured by 
Red Sands.
While on the trip Mrs C needed medical  treatment. As Red Sands had to wait for Mrs Cs 
medical information before it could assess and confirm cover it was agreed that if the 
medical provider needed immediate payment Mr and Mrs C would pay the medical costs and 
then claim the costs on the policy.
Red Sands accepted and paid the claim. Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that it settled the claim 
in pounds sterling using the exchange rate from the date the medical bills were paid. Mr and 
Mrs C paid for the medical bills from their bank account in the US and they want Red Sands 
to use the exchange rate on the date it paid the claim settlement. They say as they 
transferred the settlement money into US dollars to put into their US bank account there was 
a shortfall of US $158.39 due to the exchange rate difference.
Red Sands said it had paid the claim in line with the policy terms. It used the exchange rate 
on the date a policyholder paid the costs claimed to calculate a claim settlement so that the 
policyholder was refunded the actual covered costs the policyholder paid. It said if it paid the 
settlement at the higher exchange rate Mr and Mrs C wanted the settlement payment would 
be for a greater amount than they had actually paid for the medical costs.
Mr and Mrs C complained to us. They said:
Red Sands final response letter to them said the policy would reimburse them. Their 
interpretation of the word reimbursement is to put them back in the same financial 
position as they would have been if they hadnt paid the medical bills, which they 
didnt think had happened.
Red Sands using the exchange rate on the date a policyholder paid the costs 
claimed wasnt in the policy terms and Red Sands just chose to use that method. 
Theyd had the same issue when theyd previously made another claim with another 
insurer. When they complained that insurer then agreed to settle that claim at the 
exchange rate Mr and Mrs C wanted.
They want Red Sands to pay the $158.39 and compensation for the time they spent 
making the complaint. 
Our investigator said Red Sands had acted in line with the policy terms and fairly.
Mr and Mrs C disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they added:
We hadnt addressed their interpretation of the meaning of the word reimbursement.
If theyd paid on a UK credit card then reimbursement would have been at the 
exchange rate used by the card company and would have included a foreign 
transaction fee. They said we needed to address that Red Sands settled the claim 
using a middle market exchange rate which is artificial and unfavourable to them.
They dont accept that if the settlement was calculated using the exchange rate on 
the date of settlement they would be profiting.
Our investigator had said that using the exchange rate at the date the policyholder 
paid the costs claimed was a standard approach for insurers. They didnt think it was 
standard as another insurer had agreed to pay a previous claim at the exchange rate 
they wanted when they complained.
Our investigator said the policy terms were clear they wouldnt be covered for any 
additional costs which Red Sands hadnt agreed to cover in the policy terms such as 
any loss of earnings but that wasnt relevant to their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Cs comments as well as the evidence from Red Sands in 
reaching my decision. Im not going to address every point Mr and Mrs C made, Ill focus on 
why Ive made my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think 
Red Sands settlement of the claim was fair and reasonable, Ill explain why.
The policy terms say under the section Medical & repatriation expenses (not Private Health 
Insurance) that Red Sands will pay:
customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency treatment, 
to be paid outside your home country for medical, surgical, hospital. services.
The policy covers customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary emergency 
treatment and Red Sands paid Mr and Mrs C the costs they paid for Mrs Cs medical 
treatment. So Red Sands covered the claim in line with the policy terms.
I dont think the policy says the settlement of the costs will be at the exchange rate on the 
date the policyholder paid the costs. But I know thats the standard approach for insurers 
when settling a travel insurance claim. We generally tell an insurer to calculate the 
settlement based on the rate of exchange on the date the policyholder paid the expenses 
claimed for, so were satisfied thats a fair and reasonable approach.
From what Mr and Mrs Cs say another insurer for their previous claim chose not to calculate 
that settlement in its usual standard way after Mr and Mrs C complained, which was that 
insurers decision. But that doesnt mean Red Sands decision to calculate the settlement in 
the standard way, using exchange rates at the date the policyholder paid the costs, was 
unreasonable.
Under the heading Conditions and exclusions applying to your policies the policy says:
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following 
circumstances
Loss of earningsor any other loss unless it is specified in the policy.Our investigator referred to that exclusion not because he thought Mr and Mrs C were 
claiming for loss of earnings but because the exclusion also says theres no cover for any 
other loss unless it is specified in the policy. Any other loss includes the loss Mr and Mrs C 
are seeking, so the policy says thats not covered.
I dont think theres any exceptional circumstances in this case which mean it would be 
reasonable for me to tell Red Sands to pay the claim at the exchange rate on the date it 
made the settlement. That would result in Red Sands paying Mr and Mrs C more than the 
medical costs they actually paid. If the exchange rate had gone in the opposite direction it 
wouldnt have been reasonable for me to say that at the date of settlement Red Sands 
should pay less than the medical costs Mr and Mrs C actually paid.
Theres no basis for me to say Red Sands should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation for their 
time spent in making this complaint. I think Red Sands settlement was reasonable, and 
even if I didnt I dont generally say an insurer has to pay compensation for a consumers 
time spent in making a complaint.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman