DRN-2718436
The complaint
Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
I think Capital One made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember this. There was a 
choice of yes or no for the PPI on the application form  and Mrs M appears to have 
placed a cross in this and signed the form. Mrs M said the box was pre-ticked yes  
but I havent seen anything that supports that, and there was a clear option for no, so 
this doesnt change my decision. 
Mrs Ms representative thinks Capital One should have contacted her and discussed 
the PPI to check if it was suitable before selling it. Mrs Ms representative will know that 
PPI could be sold either on a recommended or non-recommended basis  and in this 
instance Im satisfied it wasnt recommended. So Capital One didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her, or discuss the PPI on the phone. It did have to provide enough 
information for her to make up her own mind about buying the PPI. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. The benefits would 
potentially last for longer than her sick pay. I think it unlikely Mrs M would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman