DRN-2320338
Complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Ms M took out a PPI policy which started at the same time as the credit card she had taken 
out in 1994. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint because:
Ms M says the sale took place over the phone. She says she was advised to take the policy 
out, so she felt like she was left with no choice but to take it. But Bank of Scotland says it 
was sold by post and has provided a copy of Ms Ms credit card application form which it 
says shows that it was a postal sale. Looking at the completed credit card application form, I 
can see that Ms Ms information, including personal details and details relating to her 
financial circumstances were completed by hand. There is an instruction at the top of the 
application which asks for the applicant to post in the envelope provided or to send to the 
address given in the application. So, based on what Ive seen I think it is more likely than not 
the sale took place by post.
The copy of the application Ive got is not very clear. But having looked at this, alongside a 
sample application form, I can see theres a section about principal cardholders application 
and consent. It asks the cardholder to indicate their consent by placing ticks in the boxes. 
Looking closely, I can see Ms M has ticked one of the boxes, which agreed to Credit Care 
Insurance (PPI) to protect her repayments. She has gone on to sign the credit agreement as 
requested. So, on a balance, I think its more likely than not that Ms M agreed to the PPI 
knowing she had a choice.
Ms M has said that Bank of Scotland recommended that she bought PPI. However, Bank of 
Scotland says it didnt. Based on everything I have seen, the policy was taken by post and 
so, I dont think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms M. This means it didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. It was up to Ms M to decide if the policy was right for her, 
taking into account her employer benefits and any other means at the time. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. Unfortunately, I havent been able to review a policy document from the 
time of the sale. But from what I know about Ms Ms circumstances and the features of the 
later policies, I dont think Ms M would have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Ms M. 
Ms M has told us she was entitled to six months full followed by six months half pay if she 
was too unwell to work and she didnt have any savings. Having thought about this, I dont 
think her sick pay entitlement would have meant the policy wasnt useful. I say this because 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms M would have received from her 
employer and would have potentially paid out longer than she would have received full pay. 
The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Ms M was ever made redundant. 
So overall, I think Ms M could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman