DRN-3310261
The complaint
Ms F complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) unfairly increased the 
premiums on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F took out pet insurance with Allianz in 2017. Shed been a loyal customer and hadnt 
made a claim on her policy. So Ms F was very upset when her premium increased by nearly 
20% each year. Ms F is very frustrated by the response she received from Allianz and she 
wants her current premium kept at the previous years level.
Allianz was sorry to hear Ms F was unhappy with the price increase. Allianz explained the 
price of the policy would increase year on year as her pets got older as there was more risk 
of a claim. Allianz said it also had to take into account general inflation and increasing 
veterinary fees. Allianz said changes to the premium were set out in the terms and 
conditions sent with each renewal and in the product information document. And the 
increases were in line with its pricing structure.
Ms F wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at whether Allianz had acted 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And she looked at 
the underwriting information showing how the premiums had been calculated. 
Our investigator didnt think Allianz had treated Ms F any differently to other consumers in 
the same circumstances. So she was satisfied Allianz had acted fairly when pricing the 
policy. But she recognised the premium increases had been a lot more than Ms F had 
expected. And she didnt think Allianz had given Ms F clear information about the long-term 
costs when she took out the lifetime policy. 
Our investigator accepted Allianz couldnt tell Ms F exactly what would happen to the cost of 
her premiums in the future. But she felt Ms F hadnt received clear information about the 
long-term cost implications of a lifetime policy. And our investigator felt Allianz should pay 
Ms F £200 compensation for the trouble and upset shed suffered as a result of the shock 
caused by the high premium increases.
Allianz didnt agree with our investigator. It understood she didnt feel Ms F had been 
provided with sufficient information about the pricing at the point of sale. But it didnt think the 
individual circumstances of this case had resulted in material distress or inconvenience that 
required compensating. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F took out a lifetime pet insurance for her pets so theyd be covered for any conditions 
they developed over the rest of their lives  as long as the policy cover continued. 
But these sorts of policy are usually more expensive as they offer a more comprehensive 
level of cover. And that cost will almost certainly go up each year due to the increased risk of 
a claim as the pet gets older, as well as general increases in veterinary costs and the like.
When considering complaints about the increasing cost of a lifetime pet insurance policy I 
need to look at the information given to the policyholder when they first bought the policy to 
see how clearly the long-term costs of the policy were explained. But its not the role of this 
service to tell a business how to work out the risk its insuring  or what to charge for that 
risk. So I cant say whether Ms Fs premium is too high or that she should be charged a 
different amount in the future. 
The terms and conditions of Allianzs pet insurance policy allow it to alter the premium. And 
over time Id expect a business to look at its pricing models so it can remain competitive and 
viable. So its up to Allianz to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover provided. 
But I do think, particularly for insurance products such as lifetime cover, that information 
about the long-term costs of the policy wouldve been important to the consumer. And it 
shouldve been highlighted when they first took out the policy.
Ive looked at the information provided by Allianz to show how it calculated each renewal 
premium. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Ms F was treated differently from any other 
consumer in a similar situation. So I cant say Allianz acted unfairly when determining the 
premium for Ms Fs pet insurance policy. But its clear the premium increased a lot more 
than Ms F was expecting especially when she hadnt made any claims and wasnt 
expecting it to change very much at all.
From what Ive seen I dont think it was made clear enough to Ms F that the premium would 
almost certainly increase at each renewal  and that the increases might eventually reach a 
level that would become unaffordable.
After a small increase in the year after Ms F took out the policy, the premium increased by 
around 15-20% in each of the following years. I understand Ms F queried the price increase 
in 2018 and 2020 before deciding to continue with the policy cover. And I think that shows 
she was surprised and unhappy with the amount of increase each year  even if she then 
decided to continue with the policy.
Allianz says Ms F was free to look at alternative products if she was unhappy with the cost. It 
says its easy to carry out searches to compare prices. And Ms F had been made aware 
each year that the cost would rise during the life of her pets. But I do think the increase in 
cost each year was likely to have come as a shock to Ms F. Even though shed not made 
any claims her monthly cost has already increased by over 60% since she took out the 
policy.
Its clear Ms F wanted some kind of cover for her pets. She chose a lifetime policy - so I think 
its fair to say she had an interest in the greater level of cover it provided. And I think Ms F 
wouldve probably still gone ahead with a policy like this  even if shed known the premium 
could increase significantly over time. 
Ms F didnt have to renew her Allianz policy. But it wouldve been harder each year to find 
alternative cover as her pets became older. And any medical conditions that her pets 
mightve developed  even if she hadnt made any claims yet  would be treated as pre-
existing and wouldnt have been covered if Ms F had moved her insurance elsewhere.
Having considered everything Ms F and Allianz have said I dont think Ms F was given clear 
and fair information about the long-term costs of the pet insurance policy. And Ms F now has to decide whether to carry on with this policy  with a much greater 
premium moving forwards than she was expecting  or take the risk of choosing an alternate 
policy that may not provide the same level of cover.
As Ive previously explained, I cant tell Allianz what to charge for the risks it insures. So I 
cant ask it to set Ms Fs renewal premium at any given amount. But although she may still 
have taken out the policy if shed been given better information, I do think Ms F has been 
caused unnecessary distress and upset.
Putting things right
I can see our investigator recommended Allianz pay Ms F £200 compensation for the impact 
of not making it clear how much the premiums might increase when she took out the policy. 
And I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc should pay Ms F £200 
compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman