DRN-2194899
The complaint
Mr W says that Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi is unfairly holding him to a 
finance agreement used to pay for an educational course for his child.
  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr W says he met a representative about an educational course for his 
child which was supplied by a Course Provider (not Duologi). He says he came across the 
Course Provider through the school his child attends. Duologi says he took out a Fixed Sum 
Loan Agreement with it over five years to pay for this educational course.
Mr W says he didnt know the educational course was online until he met the representative. 
Mr W says he didnt have a computer at home, but the representative said a computer could 
be provided and checked in their car at the time to see if they had one spare.
In January 2020 Mr W agreed to the finance with Duologi to pay for the educational course. 
Mr W says a computer was provided but it didnt work so was sent back. A second computer 
was provided which worked briefly but then also failed. And Mr W says that he has talked 
with the Course Provider to try and sort matters out, but without success.
So Mr W complained. Duologi said it had done nothing wrong. So Mr W brought his 
complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint, but Duologi didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale and say the computer issues arent its responsibility. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he was introduced to the Course Provider by the school his child attends. Mr W 
has since supplied this service with an email from the school which points to the services 
offered by the Course Provider. He expressed an interest in learning more about this 
support, and a representative visited him in December 2019. By the end of this meeting Mr 
W had agreed in principle to take on an online educational course for child and completed 
some paperwork to that effect. 
It appears the representative was acting for both the Course Provider and Duologi during the 
sales process. The total price of the course was £4846 of which £4796 was paid for with a 
loan from Duologi which was arranged by the representative. The loan was interest free and 
was to run for 60 months. Mr W paid a £50 deposit.
Mr W has been very clear that he wouldnt have taken the course or the finance on without 
being told hed be given a computer for his child to do the course on. Hes described that at 
the meeting with the representative that the representative made clear that a computer 
would be provided. Mr W describes how the representative went out to their car to see if they 
had a spare computer in the car but didnt have one. Mr W has also provided a copy of a 
document which he says he was given. This refers to the complimentary computer worth 
£250 and it being all ready to use with your (Course Providers name) learning 
programme. It goes on to say the enclosed device has a retail value of £250 but is provided 
free of charge to you because you have enrolled with (Course Providers name).
Duologi didnt sell Mr W the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr W due 
to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mr 
W entered with Duologi is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which 
provide his with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the 
agent of Duologi during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr W entering into the 
loan agreement, beginning with the first communication he received from the Course 
Provider. In essence this means Duologi can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said throughout the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr W to 
hold Duologi liable for breaches of contract by the Course Provider, or misrepresentations 
made during the sales process.
Duologi has pointed to a number of documents which were either electronically signed or 
initialled and signed by hand by Mr W. He accepts that he completed documents but were 
given him just to sign. Duologis position essentially is that the documentary evidence from 
the point of sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mr W agreed to 
everything in those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of 
what happened here. What was said by the representative is also important as the 
discussion will have started before the paperwork was signed. And Mr W would have 
considered what the representative said in his decision making during the sale.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mr W placed on what the 
representative told him. And I also think the context of the origin of this relationship is a key 
consideration. Mr W says he became aware of the provider of the course through his childs 
school. My understanding is that this marketing approach was commonplace by the Course 
Provider. I think a parent receiving an introduction such as this from their childs school 
would view this as at least an implicit endorsement or recommendation. I think this would 
have made Mr W more likely to trust what he was being told by the representative in this 
case.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
Course Provider and it using credit providers such as Duologi. These include the common 
theme of people relying on what the representatives who visited them telling them things 
which turned out to be contrary to the actual position. I havent seen anything that connects 
these complainants other than they were sold courses such as this by the Course Provider 
and often took finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading or untrue information. But it does show that there was a significant risk 
that such representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that 
unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the situation differently to 
that articulated in the documentation.
Ive considered what Mr W has said very carefully. I think it likely that the representative told 
him that a computer would be provided for the course to be run on. Mr W says that this was 
key to their decision as they didnt have a computer at home to use for this. Duologi say the 
course has been accessed which shows the computer works. However Mr W has said that 
the second computer worked briefly and that the course content was accessible also on a 
smart phone that they had. Ive seen a listing of the courses provided and that over the 
numerous courses provided that only on a few days in January 2020 where courses were 
accessed. This evidence fits with what Mr W has said about the computer working briefly. 
And although Duologi point to being able to access the course on a smart phone I dont think 
that is practical for prolonged use. From what Mr W has said on balance I dont think Mr W 
would have agreed to the course or the finance if it hadnt been for what the representative 
told him about providing a computer to work on. And I dont think the representative told him 
the computer wouldnt work. 
I think it fair and reasonable to believe that in such representations that the computer would 
be fit for purpose. And considering the document Mr W has provided (which Ive described 
already) makes clear that it will be all ready to use with your (Course Providers name) 
learning programme I think it likely that Mr W took this course and finance on because of 
the representations made to him prior to agreeing the finance. And I can see Mr W has 
raised this issue repeatedly but never got a computer that worked for a reasonable time. 
Mr W says he wants out of the agreement. But I think if the true situation had been made 
clear to him at the time he wouldnt have taken the course or the finance. On balance Im 
satisfied that a fair solution would be for Mr W to return all the kit provided to him to Duologi 
and the agreement to be unwound and all Mr Ws payments refunded to him.
In response to the views of the Investigator Duologi has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly that the paperwork was signed by Mr W isnt disputed. But importantly 
the key issue here is what was said to Mr W before and whilst he signed that documentation 
and what he relied on in deciding to sign. 
Secondly and more importantly Duologi has only described what it considers what would 
have been said and done by its representative not what was actually said. In essence it is 
relying on the representative describing the matters accurately. However it hasnt provided 
commentary from the representative in this case in support of its position. Mr W was there in 
person and heard what was actually said and I find his comments persuasive in light of what 
we already know. And along with what Ive already said with regards to sales such as this 
more broadly and considering what this service knows of sales such as this, means I 
consider it fair on balance that Duologi put things right in this particular case. 
For completeness I should add that notwithstanding all of this, it is clear to me that the 
computers are provided to enable access to the course and the computers provided here 
didnt work. So I think this is a clear breach as well. And I dont think enough was done by 
Duologi or the Course Provider to remedy this when these issues were brought to their 
attention. So I think returning Mr W to the position he would have been in save for these 
events is fair considering all that has happened here.
Duologi and the Course Provider have said that the laptops do not form part of the finance 
agreement or the course. But it doesnt make a difference. Duologi is liable for the representations made by its representative as Ive explained. And Mr W is entitled to rely on 
such representations. And Im satisfied that Mr W wouldnt have entered this agreement but 
for what he was told in regard of the computer and as a working computer hasnt been 
provided either, then taking all things into consideration, I think it fair to unwind this entire 
agreement. And Duologis argument here is flawed. Clearly the documentation shows the 
computer goes with the course and is ready to use and worth £250 with the Course 
Providers details and log in guidance provided. Irrespective of what the terms of the contract 
say I think it would be unfair to say that the computer wasnt used as an inducement to the 
course here or that such a term meant that Mr W couldnt rely on what the representative 
told him beforehand. So Mr Ws complaint is successful.
  
Putting things right
I direct Duologi to take the following actions:
Treat the agreement as void from its start and refund all payments made to Mr W.
Interest should be added at 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date he
made each payment, to the date he receives a refund.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
Arrange with Mr W for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else he 
received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under the 
contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Duologi to take tax off this interest. Duologi must
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr W asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Specialist Lending Limited 
trading as Duologi and direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman