DRN-3833315
The complaint
Mrs M complains that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs M bought a points-based timeshare membership from a business Ill call X in 
June 2006. The purchase price of the timeshare was £33,213 and Mrs M also paid 
membership/dues of £999. Mrs M traded in an existing timeshare and the remaining 
balance was paid for by a loan of £12,312 with GE Money. GE Money has said this 
loan was repaid in December 2006.
In June 2007 Mrs M purchased additional timeshare points. The purchase price of 
these timeshare points was £5,599 which she paid for with a loan from GE Money for 
the same value. GE Money has said the loan was repaid in April 2009.
In October 2020 Mrs M, using a representative, made claims against GE Money for 
the problems she experienced with the timeshares. Mrs M and her representative 
argued:
The nature of the timeshares was misrepresented to her.
The timeshare agreements are null and void due to an EU Directive.
The associated loans (used to fund the timeshare agreements) were also null 
and void due to breaches of the CCA and the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999.
GE Money failed to complete proper checks to determine if Mrs M could 
afford to repay either of the two loans it gave her.
All claims had been made in time as Mrs M was only aware of the problems with 
the timeshare and loan after her representatives had been engaged to represent 
her, and so she complained within the 3 years date of knowledge rule.
In response and in relation to the first loan, GE Money said the s.75 CCA claim was 
raised too late and outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act 1980. It also said 
that a number of the points raised fell outside the scope of s.75 CCA and so needed to 
be raised with the supplier directly. In relation to the s.140A CCA claim it said that this 
statutory provision only came into effect for existing agreements still in place on 6 April 
2008. As this loan was closed before then, s.140A CCA doesnt apply (and if it did, it 
would be raised too late under the LA).
For the second loan GE Money said there wasnt the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) relationship needed to raise a s.75 CCA claim. GE Moneys records indicate a full 
income and expenditure assessment was completed, together with a credit search. And 
based on this the monthly repayments were deemed to be affordable for Mrs M. It said the 
claim under s.140A CCA was also raised too late under the LA.
Unhappy with the outcome of GE Moneys investigation into her claims, Mrs M brought a 
complaint to our service. GE Money subsequently also argued that Mrs Ms s.75 CCA 
claim in relation to the second loan was raised too late and outside the time limits set out 
in the FCAs Handbook under DISP.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but concluded that GE Money had 
acted fairly in turning down the claims. He thought that the potential claims under s.75 
and s.140A CCA in relation to both loans were raised too late under the relevant 
provisions of the LA.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. In my 
provisional decision I said:
I have taken into account the law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, in making this decision. 
And I want to assure Mrs M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said 
and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to 
resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
The claims under s.75 CCA
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  
look into complaints. These are set out in the FCA Handbook under DISP. DISP. 2 
sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It says that in order to be 
within the ombudsmans jurisdiction a firm (i.e. a financial business which is 
authorised to carry out one or more regulated activities by the FCA or PRA) needs to 
be within the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction at the time of the events (the act or 
omission) being complained about.
In the case of a s.75 claim, the regulated activity being complained about is the 
firms handling of the s.75 claim, typically and in this case, when the firm 
declined the claim.
Mrs Ms representatives wrote to GE Money on her behalf to raise the s.75 CCA claim 
on 16 October 2020. GE Money issued a final response letter declining both claims in 
December 2020.
Prior to this on 6 December 2019 GE Money resigned from being FCA regulated and 
so after this time it was no longer authorised by the FCA. GE Money therefore no 
longer came under the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. So at the time of the 
regulated activity being complained about, the consideration of the s.75 claims, GE 
Money was not subject to the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. As such our rules 
do not allow me to consider the s.75 CCA claim in relation to either loan.
In addition, financial businesses can also elect to be part of the ombudsmans voluntary jurisdiction. However, GE Money has never been a member of the 
ombudsmans voluntary jurisdiction. So GE Moneys handling of the s.75 CCA claims 
in relation to both loans is outside of the rules I must apply and I cannot consider a 
complaint in relation to these claims.
The claims under s.140A CCA
Section 140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit 
agreement taken out before 6 April 2007 had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim 
under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of that credit agreement. The first loan 
was taken out in June 2006 and repaid in December 2006 so Mrs M cannot make a 
s.140A claim in respect of it.
The second loan was taken out after 6 April 2007 and so s.140A does apply to it 
and Mrs M can make a claim. For the avoidance of doubt, I should explain that the 
regulated activity Im considering under a s.140A claim is the lenders rights and 
duties under a regulated credit agreement. Mrs M is asserting that the lender was 
party to an unfair debtor creditor relationship and the lender had exercised rights 
and duties under the agreement during the currency of that unfair relationship. The 
credit agreement in question was entered into in June 2007. At this time GE Money 
was a member of the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction and a s.140A CCA 
claim in respect of the second loan is something I can consider. While only a court 
has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is relevant law, I 
have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
GE Money argued that there was no valid DCS agreement in place for a s.75 
claim. Ive explained above why I cant consider either s.75 claim, but a valid DCS 
agreement still needs to be in place for the s.140A CCA claim being made. GE 
Money has argued that because the loan proceeds were paid to another party, and 
not the timeshare supplier, this breaks the DCS chain. I dont intend to make a 
finding on this point as even if I did think the right DCS relationships were in place 
to make this claim, I think GE Money would have a full defence to it under the LA.
Under s.9 LA, Mrs M had to make her claim within six years of when the loan 
ended  which was in April 2009. I am satisfied that s.9 LA applies to this claim 
as Mrs M is making a claim for sums recoverable by statute. However, as the 
claim was made in October 2020, it was made outside of the time limit that 
applies.
- Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have 
considered the facts of this complaint and I dont think the time limits I have set out 
above can be extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mrs Ms representative argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider 
continued beyond the loan being repaid (in April 2009), as the loan from GE Money had 
been used to fund the timeshare purchase and this acquisition agreement has no end 
date. Essentially Mrs Ms representatives are arguing that liability should continue 
indefinitely.
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mrs M repaid the loan in full, the agreement between her and 
GE Money ended. As it was only the relationship between Mrs M and GE Money that 
could be found unfair, limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Mrs Ms representative also argues that limitation could be extended by s.14A LA, 
which deals with certain claims in negligence. In particular, it has been argued that GE 
Money owed a duty to Mrs M to protect her from purchasing a timeshare product (with 
credit) that was not compliant with an EU Directive. And it is said that GE Money 
breached this duty by not undertaking proper due diligence. But I dont think GE Money 
owed a duty of care as alleged. Nor do I think it provided any advice. So I dont think 
s.14A LA applies and therefore I dont think the limitation period can be extended under 
this provision.
In addition, Mrs Ms representative has argued that Mrs M had 6 years from the event 
being complained about or 3 years from when she knew or ought reasonably to know 
there was a problem. In relation to s.9 LA there is no 3 year limb to the limitation 
period. Her representative may be confusing this with the time limits to refer a 
complaint to the ombudsman service (in the FCAs handbook under DISP). When Mrs 
M was or ought reasonably to have been aware there was a problem doesnt change 
this limitation period. And so I think Mrs M raised her claim too late and it wasnt unfair 
for GE Money to decline her claim.
Voiding the loan agreement
Mrs Ms representative argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void. 
This essentially means that the related GE Money loan was voidable and Mrs M now 
wishes to exercise her right to rescind it.
If the timeshare agreement was voidable in the way Mrs Ms representative has argued 
it is, I think it is quite possible that the related loan was also voidable at this point. This 
is something that could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim in relation to the 
second loan, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think that claim was 
brought too late. However, it could also be considered as a separate claim in its own 
right, so I have gone on to consider it for both loans.
Mrs Ms representative has made reference to an EU Directive, some Spanish 
legislation and a Spanish court judgment. They say that, taken together, they 
demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides for a floating week or the ability to use 
points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidable agreement. However, the 
timeshares are governed by English law, not Spanish law and the judgement provided 
doesnt address whether the contract is voidable under English law.
These sales took place in 2006 and 2007, so were governed by the Timeshare Act 
1997. Nowhere in that Act does it suggest floating week or points-based 
timeshares were banned, nor that agreements providing such timeshares were 
voidable. In addition, I note that a floating week or points-based timeshares falls 
into the timeshare definitions in the Timeshare Regulations 2010, so I dont think the 
sale of these timeshares were banned either before or after Mrs Ms sales. So I dont 
think this is a reason to void the timeshare contract (or the related loan agreement).
Affordability of the loans
The first loan was taken out in June 2006. However, this was before the ombudsman 
services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction started on 6 April 2007. From 6 April 2007 our 
jurisdiction was expanded to include Consumer Credit Activities (the regulated activity) which included granting restricted credit agreements. As the first loan (which was a 
restricted credit agreement because the funds were agreed for a specific purpose) was 
agreed before this time, it falls outside our jurisdiction. I therefore cant consider this 
aspect of Mrs Ms complaint.
The second loan was taken in June 2007 and therefore can be considered. However 
whilst Mrs M has said proper steps werent taken to establish whether she could afford 
to repay the loan, Ive not seen anything to suggest the loan was actually unaffordable 
for her (i.e. that shes lost out because of this.) So even if I concluded GE Money didnt 
establish the loan was affordable for Mrs M (in line with the appliable rules, regulations 
and good industry practice at the time) I still wouldnt be able to uphold this aspect of 
her complaint as Ive not seen evidence she lost out because of this.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further they would like me to consider 
before I reached a final decision. 
In response Mrs M and her representative made a number of points (citing law and case 
law) as to why they felt s.14 LA applies to Mrs Ms s.140A CCA claim. This would provide 
Mrs M six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued or three years from 
when Mrs M had the knowledge needed to bring a negligence claim. They argue Mrs M 
raised her claim within three years of knowledge and therefore she has raised her claim (in 
relation to the second loan) in time. 
GE Money responded saying the service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider the claim in 
dispute (under s.140A CCA in respect of the second loan) as GE Money wasnt regulated by 
the FCA from 6 December 2019 onwards.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the information I have available, including whats been said in 
response to my provisional decision. Having done so Im still minded to reach the same 
conclusions as my provisional decision (which forms part of this decision) and for the same 
reasons. However, I would like to comment on the points raised in response to my 
provisional decision.
I appreciate Mrs M and her representative feel Mrs Ms s.140A CCA claim (in respect of the 
second loan) was made in time under s.14 LA. However, as explained in my provisional 
decision, s14 LA does not apply to this claim. In addition, as Mrs M is making a claim under 
s.140A CCA for sums recoverable by statute it is s.9 LA which applies. As explained in my 
provisional decision, s.9 LA in this case provided Mrs M with six years from when the loan 
account ended (in April 2009), however Mrs M didnt raise her claim until October 2020. As 
such Mrs M has raised her claim too late and outside the relevant limitation period I must 
apply. 
As explained in my provisional decision, I cant consider GE Moneys handling of the s.75 
CCA claims. This is because when GE Money considered these claims, it was no longer 
authorised by the FCA and so didnt come within the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
However, as also explained in my provisional decision, the regulated activity Im 
considering under a s.140A CCA claim is the lenders rights and duties under a regulated 
credit agreement. The agreement in question (the second loan) was entered into in June 
2007 and at this time GE Money was a member of the ombudsmans compulsory 
jurisdiction. So this does fall within the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction and the s140A CCA claim in respect of the second loan is something I can consider.
To summarise, for the reasons above and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint. I think the s.140A CCA claim in respect of the second loan was raised too late 
and outside the relevant limitation period I must apply. I dont think s.140A CCA applies to 
the first loan so Mrs M cant make a claim in respect of this. And I cant consider GE Moneys 
handling of the s.75 CCA claims as GE Money wasnt regulated by the FCA when it 
considered the claims. So its handling of these claims falls outside the jurisdiction of the 
Ombudsman Service. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman