DRN-1232988
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosinca Mortgages) said he needed 
to make capital reductions to his two mortgage accounts when he wanted to release some 
land from the titles.
What happened
Mr B owns two flats in the same block and each one has a mortgage on it with Rosinca. In 
April 2019 he told Rosinca (via his solicitor) that he wanted to remove the parking space 
from the title of each property so further flats could be built on the spaces. 
A surveyor valued the two flats with and without the parking spaces. Following that Rosinca 
agreed to the releases subject to Mr B paying a lump sum of £8,400 off each mortgage in 
line with its lending policy.
Unhappy with this Mr B raised a complaint and to resolve it Rosinca agreed to the releases 
without Mr B making the capital reductions.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. In a phone call with our investigator Mr B confirmed the 
underlying complaint had been resolved but said he wanted £8,400 compensation. He thinks 
Rosinca had no good reason to demand the capital reductions and says he was caused 
distress and inconvenience trying to resolve things.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B didnt agree, and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
The starting point here is that there was no obligation on Rosinca to agree to the releases 
without Mr B paying capital reductions to his mortgage accounts. Agreeing to do so was a 
concession on its part to try to help Mr B. Ive reviewed Rosincas policy on this and I am 
satisfied the first answer it gave  that Mr B needed to reduce each mortgage by £8,400  
was the right one in line with its policy.
Rosinca later agreed to allow the releases without Mr B making the capital reductions and 
that was a major concession on its part, and one it simply didnt have to make. It doesnt 
matter how much the loan to values were and the impact Mr B felt it would have on 
Rosincas security as Rosincas policy is that capital reductions must be made irrespective of 
all that.
Rosinca didnt have to agree to this at all and therefore the time it took to do so and any 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B in appealing arent something I can compensate 
him for. Thats because Im satisfied Rosinca put forward a more than fair resolution in its 
response to the complaint when it agreed to the releases without Mr B making the payments. 
Had this complaint come to me without that concession then I wouldnt have ordered it. 
Instead I would have simply have looked at whether any compensation was due to Mr B for 
Rosinca fairly following its own policy, and it wouldnt have been as that was a commercial 
decision it was entitled to make. Rosinca has apologised for the fact the initial letter from 
Mr Bs solicitor wasnt acted upon and has provided feedback to the relevant department on 
that. Im satisfied thats enough and so I dont award compensation for that oversight 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman