DRN-3709976
The complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was 
recommended an investment that involved too much risk by a predecessor business of 
Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc.
What happened
In January 2000 Mr P was advised to invest £7,000 into an ISA. Theres little documentary 
evidence available from the time, so its not entirely clear in what fund was invested, as the 
suitability letter refers to a Balanced Managed Growth Fund, but the final response issued by 
Zurich says the investment was in the Global Equity and Bond Fund. 
In any event, Zurich was satisfied that the recommendation to invest £7,000 in the ISA was 
suitable, primarily based on information regarding Mr Ps circumstances that was recorded in 
a fact find document in separate file, but from the same period.   
The CMC referred the complaint to this service, but an investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Zurich. She didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to find that the advice has 
been unsuitable. 
The CMC didnt accept this, reiterating its view that the level of risk wasnt consistent with 
Mr Ps background and investment experience. So, as no agreement could be reached, the 
matters been referred to me to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, theres very limited documentation available relating to the recommendation, due 
to business changes and the time thats past since the advice was provided. But we do 
know, from the fact find relating to separate advice, that Mr P was married, in his early 50s, 
working full-time, with a mortgage and two dependent children when he received the advice. 
From the information on the fact find it looks like hed previously had a TESSA, alongside 
other savings plans. And it would appear that in addition to the money he invested in the 
ISA, he had another £11,000 available, which suggests there was no issue with affordability. 
Indeed, Im aware that the ISA is still held by Mr P. 
So, the issue in question really is with the level of risk the investment involved. The suitability 
letter tells us that Mr P was categorised as having a balanced attitude to risk (although 
theres no record of how this was determined) and it went on to explain that this means you 
wish to invest in balanced funds which are designed to produce good long term returns 
through a relatively broad spread of investments in the UK and overseas. This balanced 
approach to risk and reward may nevertheless result in some volatility in the short term.  
As noted, the Balanced Managed Growth Fund was then recommended, described as a 
fund which aimed to provide capital growth from investment in a portfolio diversified to 
spread risk. The portfolio balances some holdings in some higher risk/reward funds with 
larger holdings in relatively steady equity and bonds funds.  
As noted, it seems this was not the fund that was actually invested in, for whatever reason. 
But it does look likely, on balance, that Mr Ps money went into a balanced, managed fund 
reliant upon equities and bonds, some overseas. 
I appreciate the CMCs point that this appears to be investing at a level of risk potentially 
inconsistent with Mr Ps circumstances and experience, and possibly at a level above what 
might usually be considered as a balanced investment. But overall, with so little to go on, 
Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude that it was unsuitable. 
The recommendation letter suggests that the adviser gave reasonable consideration to 
Mr Ps wider circumstances  for instance, it noted his wifes potential redundancy and, 
although it was noted that this was unlikely to create a problem, the advice took account of 
this. There were also warnings about potential volatility with the investment.
And while I accept the CMCs point about a positive return not in itself being an indication 
that an investment was suitable, Im nevertheless conscious that Mr Ps ISA had a value of 
£19,000 as of mid-2022, which does suggest a reasonable return that potentially outstrips 
the performance of any benchmark I might recommend as a comparison.
This is quite a finely balanced matter, but in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Zurich to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman