DRN-2441579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about a whole of life assurance policy sold to them in 1984 by 
Phoenix Life Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L say they were only recently made aware their policy doesnt work in the way 
they thought it did. They thought that if one them passed away they would receive both the 
life insurance amount as well as the cash value accrued in the policy. However Phoenix 
have told them that this isnt the case. If one of them passes away they only get the life 
insurance amount and not the cash value. The cash value can be taken at any time, but then 
the policy would end.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs L came to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought the policy documents from the time, 
along with the review letters Mr and Mrs L received over the years, clearly explained how the 
policy worked. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The type of insurance Mr and Mrs L have is a reviewable whole of life policy. There are two 
elements to the policy; the life cover, and an underlying investment fund. At the start some of 
the premiums go towards the cost of the life cover, and some to the underlying investment. 
As the fund increases, and the cost of life cover increases as the policy holders get older, 
the fund will support the premiums to pay for the life cover. 
Life cover is the main purpose of the policy, but the underlying investment fund accrues a 
cash value which can be taken at any time. Because the investment fund isnt the main 
purpose of the policy any cash surrender value will be lower than the sum insured and 
dependent on the performance of the fund. Taking the cash value would mean that the 
policy ends.
Mr and Mrs L say they were told at the time of the sale that if one of them passed way they 
would get the sum assured as well as the cash value. They dont feel the documents make 
clear how the policy works, and they say they relied on what they were told by the adviser at 
the time.
The sale took place in 1984 when financial regulation was different to today both in how 
advisers were expected to act and how paperwork was presented. Advisers still had to act 
responsibly making appropriate recommendations, and the paperwork still had to be clear. 
This combined with the time that has passed since the sale, some 36 years, makes being 
sure about what happened somewhat difficult. 
The most reliable evidence we have from the time is the illustration which was completed by 
the adviser in discussion with Mr and Mrs L of which they were given a copy. Having looked 
at this I think it explains how the policy works. I havent anything to show that the policy 
would provide both the sum assured and the cash value. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ls 
memory of what happened, however I find documentation completed at the time of the sale 
more persuasive considering the time that has passed.
Ive also looked at some of the review letters Phoenix sent Mr and Mrs L over the years. 
These do refer to a cash in value, but again I havent seen anything to show the policy 
operated how Mr and Mrs L say they thought it did. 
Mr and Mrs L says they were specifically told they could build a very large cash element. 
Looking at the documentation from 1984 its very possible they were told this. At that time 
the financial market looked very different to what it is today. The illustration shows a 
predicted growth rate for the cash value of 7.5% with notes from the adviser saying the 
actual growth was 13.2% at February 1984 and was expected to be 14.5% in February 
1985. Over the years the growth rate has declined substantially and not kept up with that 
expectation, but that doesnt necessarily mean it was wrong of the adviser to explain what 
they expected to happen. It turns out that due to the economy, and other financial factors 
which couldnt be foreseen at the time, expected growth rates have changed a lot since 
1984. 
All this considered, a potentially large cash element doesnt change how the policy works. 
Its not possible to take both this amount, whatever the value, and the sum assured. 
Mr and Mrs L say if they knew how the policy really worked they wouldnt have taken it as 
they had substantial insurance cover through their employers. However having cover 
through an employer doesnt make extra cover unsuitable. This is because an employer 
might choose to stop offering the cover, or an employee might leave the employment. In 
either case the cover would stop, whereas standalone cover would continue. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold. Thats not to 
say that Mr and Mrs L arent in an uncomfortable financial position with some important 
choices to make; they are. However I think the documents are clear about how the policy 
works.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman