DRN-1727098
 
The complaint
C, a company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc debited its account after a 
cheque in its favour was returned unpaid. C is represented by its director, Mr R.
What happened
Mr R received a cheque for £960, payable to C. He paid it into C's account on 27 February 
2019 and the bank credited the account with that sum. The following day, however, the 
cheque was returned unpaid and the account was debited. The cheque was re-presented on 
1 March, but was again returned unpaid and the account debited. On 8 March the cheque 
was presented for a third time, but again it was returned unpaid. This time, however, the 
business account wasn't debited and the credit remained on it.
In early August 2019 - that is, more than five months after the cheque had been presented -
 NatWest identified that C's account hadn't been debited, even though the cheque hadn't 
been paid. It debited the account with £960. Mr R thought, given the time that had elapsed, 
the bank shouldn't have done that. 
NatWest acknowledged that it had made an error; it should have debited the account when 
the cheque was returned unpaid, rather than several months later. It didn't agree however 
that it had no right to debit the account at all. It hadn't received funds for the cheque from the 
drawer's bank, and so C wasn't entitled to have the credit remaining on its account. By way 
of an apology, it sent Mr R a hamper, credited C's account with £50 and reimbursed its 
telephone costs. 
Mr R referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought that, although the bank had made an error, it had done enough to 
put things right. Mr R didn't accept the investigator's view, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
A cheque is an instruction given to a bank to pay someone else and to debit the drawer's 
account. In this case, C's customer instructed their own bank to transfer money to C's 
account. When Mr R paid the cheque in, NatWest provided a temporary credit, which would 
be made permanent if and when the customer's bank sent funds to cover the cheque. That 
never happened, however; the most likely reason is that C's customer didn't have 
sufficient funds to cover the cheque.
I'm satisfied in the circumstances that NatWest didn't have to credit C's account and that it 
was entitled to remove the temporary credit it had applied, even after a delay. The account terms explained that money available for use as a result of a cheque being paid into an 
account might be removed if the bank or building society on which the cheque was drawn 
decided not to pay it. 
NatWest did however acknowledge that it should have debited C's account sooner than it 
did, and I agree that it should have done. I note however that it has provided some 
compensation in recognition of that. In my view, it's already done enough to put things right 
and to apologise for its errors, and I don't believe I can fairly ask it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman