DRN-3998953
The complaint
Miss S complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd trading as Lantern started getting in 
touch about a debt which she didnt know if it was hers. Shes also unhappy with Lanterns 
responses which shes said are confusing  and have mentioned different companies. 
What happened
As I understand it, Lantern bought this debt in July 2021, and started contacting Miss S 
shortly afterwards. The amount of the debt is £830.54, and is for a short-term loan with a 
company who Ill refer to as P  P have since gone into liquidation. Statements show the 
loan was advanced in May 2017, with the account seemingly defaulting in September 2017.
As Miss S didnt recognise the debt, she contacted Lantern for information about it and, not 
receiving satisfactory answers, she complained to them.
Lantern said Miss S had requested a Subject Access Request (SAR) and they provided 
everything they had for her. In response, she asked about Lantern providing additional 
information such as bank details and identification for whoever took out the loan. Lantern 
said due to a system error their response explaining they didnt hold these documents wasnt 
actually sent to Miss S  which meant she had to keep contacting them. They said sorry for 
this.
Overall, Lantern said they were satisfied they had enough evidence to show Miss S was 
liable for the outstanding debt, but said they were happy to complete a fraud investigation if 
required  she just needed to let them know.
Unhappy with their response, Miss S asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so, and ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss S wasnt happy with their outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to firstly explain the roles and responsibilities of the two different parties 
involved in this complaint. 
P are who the loan was originally taken out with. They were primarily responsible for 
ensuring they were lending to the right person, and for carrying out all the checks.
Lantern are the debt purchaser. They bought the account after the loan was likely defaulted 
in September 2017.
Debt purchasers arent responsible for any checks which might be required to lend someone 
some money. Instead, they simply need to be reasonably sure theyre contacting the right 
person about the debt and asking them to fairly repay the money.
Here, Lantern have provided a copy of the consumer credit agreement (CCA), and a 
statement of the account. Both of these show Miss S name  and this is the common 
information debt purchasers are able to provide. So, at face value, I think theyve acted fairly 
in asking Miss S to repay the debt.
Im aware Miss S has asked for more information, such as the bank account details the 
money was paid into, and the identification obtained when the loan was granted. But, this is 
information Id only expect the lender to be able to provide  and unfortunately P, the original 
lender, have gone into liquidation. That means Lantern arent able to get any more 
information than they already hold and, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied what Lantern 
do hold (the CCA, and a statement of the account) is reasonable for them to ask Miss S to 
repay the debt. So, I cant say Lantern have done anything wrong by not providing this 
information, as they dont have it and cant get it.
Im also aware Miss S has been frustrated at the lack of replies from Lantern when shes 
contacted them. I can see in Lanterns final response letter they have said sorry for this. I 
can see Miss S doesnt think this sorry means anything, because Lantern havent provided 
the bank account and identification shes asked for, but as Ive explained above I dont think 
at this stage they can do anything more.
I can see Lantern have offered on several occasions to carry out a fraud review  and have 
said Miss S needs to complete their fraud form to do so. Ive also seen Miss S explain shed 
get in touch with Lantern directly to arrange this, so there isnt anything for Lantern to do on 
this point until Miss S gets in touch.
Overall then, I think Lantern have acted fairly in asking Miss S to repay the debt, arent likely 
going to be able to provide the documents shes asked for, and have said sorry for their 
errors in replying to her. Because of that, I dont require Lantern to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman