DRN-3154482
The complaint
T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was unable to provide the commercial mortgage it 
wanted, after a valuation.
This complaint is brought by a director of T. But for clarity Ive largely just referred to T in my 
decision.
What happened
T was in contact with Barclays in 2019 about applying for a commercial mortgage. The 
mortgage was to be secured on a property T already owned and would involve refinancing 
existing borrowing.
There was a significant amount of correspondence between T and Barclays before an 
application was made. In short, T was keen to know if the mortgage was likely to be agreed 
on the terms it was seeking  so wanted to know what the valuation of the property would 
likely be. T provided a copy of a valuation of the property that had been carried out in 2010, 
when the existing finance had been taken out, to assist in estimating this.
A relationship manager at Barclays contacted a third-party valuer informally and asked it for 
an indication of the likely valuation. No costs were passed onto T for this. The third-party 
valuer gave an informal opinion on the value without visiting the property. Based on this it 
appeared that the mortgage T was seeking might be something Barclays could offer under 
its lending criteria.
T proceeded to apply for the mortgage. An agreement was drawn up, but this was subject to 
a formal valuation. T was charged a fee for the formal valuation.
The valuation was carried out by an independent third-party valuer (the same one that had 
given a previous informal opinion). This included the valuer visiting the property to inspect it. 
The formal valuation of the property was less favourable.
As a result, Barclays said it was unable to provide the loan T was seeking. It could offer a 
revised loan  with reduced borrowing or on different terms. But T felt these were not 
suitable, so did not proceed.
T is unhappy that the loan was not provided and has asked for the valuation fee and other 
costs it incurred to be refunded  as it says its decision to apply and pay these costs was 
based on the informal indications of the value of the property, before the formal valuation 
took place.
One of our Investigators considered matters. Having done so, they didnt think Barclays had 
done a great deal wrong. Barclays had arranged for a third-party to give an informal opinion 
at no cost to T, which it wasnt required to do. They said Barclays wasnt responsible for this 
informal opinion but in any event, it had been clear that this was not a formal valuation and 
one would be required. And Barclays had been clear that there would be a cost to T for this 
formal valuation. The formal valuation was less favourable. But Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly by basing its lending decision on this valuation. 
Barclays acknowledged that it hadnt made T aware of an admin charge of £75 that was 
include in the valuation fee. So, it agreed to refund this amount  which it has said was done 
in December 2021. Our Investigator felt that was fair.
T asked for its complaint to be reviewed. It didnt think Barclays had acted correctly and 
questioned if the 2010 valuation was provided to the valuer before the informal opinion was 
provided. T also stated it didnt think Barclays had any explicit authority to charge it the 
valuation fee.
As T did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common industry practice that as part of any mortgage application the lender will usually 
require an up to date valuation of the property which is being used as security. It is clear 
from the correspondence and what has gone on here that T was aware of this.
T wanted to know if the valuation was likely to be at a certain level, before applying. But 
without a formal valuation, there was no way to definitively know this. 
A relationship manager at Barclays arranged an informal opinion on the value of the 
property, from a third-party valuer, as a courtesy to T, at no cost. I dont think Barclays was 
under any obligation to do this. And Barclays wasnt in my view responsible for the opinion of 
the third-party. Im satisfied Barclays was clear that this opinion was exactly that  an 
informal opinion. And that any application would be subject to a formal valuation.
T has said it provided a valuation of the property from 2010 to Barclays and says this 
shouldve been provided to the valuer before they gave an informal opinion. And feels if it 
wasnt, Barclays has made an error. But at the time, the valuation T provided was over nine 
years old. Property values are subject to market fluctuations. So, Im not sure that the 2010 
valuation was relevant. But in any event, as Ive said Im satisfied Barclays was clear that the 
opinion provided by the third-party at that point was informal and that it wasnt actually 
required to arrange this informal opinion in the first place.
T has said that it chose to make an application because of this informal opinion. But Im 
satisfied it was aware that a formal valuation could be different and that no guarantee had 
been made by Barclays that the lending would be agreed. So, I dont agree that T was 
misled into applying.
Ive seen evidence that an application was made. And a full formal valuation was conducted, 
by a suitable qualified third-party valuer. I havent seen anything to suggest there were any 
errors within that report or anything that Barclays ought to have questioned further. But in 
any event, Barclays isnt responsible for the contents of the valuation. So, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to rely on the contents of the valuation when making 
its lending decision. And I dont think it has done anything wrong by declining to provide the 
mortgage on the terms T wanted, based on the information available to it at the time and its 
lending criteria. 
Im also satisfied T was aware that there would be a cost for the valuation, which it would be 
responsible for. Ive seen email exchanges where a valuer was selected, and the cost was 
discussed. T has said it did not give explicit authority for Barclays to charge it this fee. But as 
Ive said, Im satisfied it was aware that the cost would be passed to it. And I think by 
applying, it agreed to those costs. So, I dont think Barclays was wrong to charge the agreed 
valuation fee or to use the bank details provided by T when doing so. And because of this, 
and as I dont think Barclays has misled T, I wont be requiring it to refund this fee or cover 
any other costs T has incurred in relation to this application as Im satisfied T was aware 
before applying that the application could still be declined.
Barclays did acknowledge that it charged T an additional £75 on top of the valuation fee it 
discussed. It has said that this was a standard administrative fee. But it has also 
acknowledged that it didnt make T aware of this in advance, so it has refunded this amount 
to T. I think this is fair so dont intend to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman