DRN-3354551
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to check that she could 
afford the repayments on a number of loans she took out with them. 
Miss M is represented, but for ease I will refer only to Miss M throughout.
What happened
Miss M has applied for and been granted four personal loans with Nationwide since July 
2013, as follows:
Loan 
numberDate Amount 
borrowedTerm APR Monthly 
repayment
1 July 2013 £3,500.00 60 months 9.4% £72.68
2 December 2014 £5,773.49 72 months 18.1% £127.64
3 February 2018 £10,944.53 84 months 3.4% £146.34
4 January 2019 £15,775.41 72 months 4.2% £247.68
Loans two to four were top-ups to previous loans. So for example, when Miss M took out 
loan number two, she received £3,000 additional capital, but was borrowing £5,773.49 as 
the additional amount was used to repay loan one. Nationwides records indicate that loans 
one and two were for debt consolidation and loans three and four for home improvement.
In December 2019, Miss M complained to Nationwide that it hadnt properly checked that 
she could afford loans it had granted. She said that Nationwide shouldve realised that her 
only income was benefits and that it was very unlikely she would be able to afford the loans. 
She also said that she suffered from a particular disorder that meant she had little regard for 
the consequences of her actions. And that Nationwide didnt do enough to identify and then 
appropriately deal with her vulnerability. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when it agreed the loans, it was based on 
its lending criteria and a review of affordability, which was demonstrated at the time. It also 
said that it accepts a number of benefit payments as income, for the purpose of assessing 
loan applications. 
Miss M remained unhappy. She requested all of the personal data that Nationwide held 
about her in relation to the lending and the complaint. 
Miss M subsequently referred her concerns to this Service. She said the fact that her income 
was made up entirely of benefits ought to have been seen as a warning flag and that 
Nationwide could reasonably have been expected to have identified her vulnerability, as 
required under the Equality Act 2010 (EA). 
She said that when carrying out affordability checks, Nationwide had only checked her 
income and nothing else. And that this had been inadequate. She also said that Nationwide 
hadnt responded appropriately to the Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).  
Miss Ms concerns about Nationwides handling of her DSAR would be better directed to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO), so I wont be making a finding on this. 
An investigator her looked into things and issued a view in July 2021. She said, in summary, 
that:
- Given the size and length of each of the loans and other relevant factors, she didnt think 
Nationwide had carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks on any of the 
loans.
- As no bank statements in the lead up to loan one were available, she couldnt say for 
certain that if Nationwide had looked at these, it would have realised the loan wouldnt be 
affordable for Miss M. She therefore didnt uphold this loan.
- For loans two to four, bank and credit card statements in the lead up to each loan were 
available. Based on these, she thought that Miss M had enough disposable income available 
to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable manner. 
- It was fair for Nationwide to take into account Miss Ms benefits income, since this was 
received for her everyday expenses and to replace income she may otherwise have 
received.
- She couldnt see that Miss M had made Nationwide aware of her vulnerability. And so she 
didnt think Nationwide had lent irresponsibly.
Miss M disagreed with the outcome. She questioned why the investigator thought that 
Nationwide hadnt breached the EA and whether Nationwide had taken any steps to 
understand the nature of her disability  given that the benefits she was receiving included a 
PIP (Personal Independence Payment). 
She also drew the investigators attention to the Money Advice Liaison Group 12 Step 
Guide. And said that Nationwide ought to have been following this and questioned whether 
there was any evidence that it did. 
The investigator considered these points, but it didnt change her mind about the outcome. 
She said, in summary, that:
- She agreed Nationwide was aware that Miss M had been in receipt of PIP, but didnt think it 
was reasonable to expect Nationwide to ask details about a customers disability in the 
context of making the lending decisions. 
- She wouldve expected Nationwide to make any reasonable adjustments had Miss M 
disclosed the nature of her disability to it. However, Miss M hadnt disclosed this. 
- Prior to the fourth loan being granted, there were higher levels of retail spending on 
Miss Ms credit card. Alongside quite a few refunds. Had Nationwide questioned this 
spending, she didnt think it likely that Miss M wouldve disclosed the nature of her disability 
(which can cause compulsive spending)  as she hadnt disclosed it before then and wanted 
the loan in question to be granted.- Overall, she didnt think that Nationwide had acted unfairly when making its lending 
decisions.
As the matter remained unresolved, the case was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the file, I asked the investigator to clarify with Miss M how she had been able 
to make substantial credit card repayments, sometimes clearing the balance, in the lead up 
to the loan applications - when her total expenditure was significantly exceeding her income. 
And how she had been able to keep up with her loan repayments, given that her expenditure 
was exceeding her income. 
This was against a backdrop of Miss Ms bank statements showing some significant 
transfers in from other accounts and Miss M having made reference to keeping up with the 
loan repayments, by exhausting her savings. 
Miss M said that for much of this time she was experiencing a serious episode of her 
disorder and had very little recall of events during this time. But she said that:
- Her credit card has been at its maximum for a long time and she has only been paying the 
minimum amount each month.
- Her savings were exhausted some time ago.
- Her parents have been providing financial support and this is how she has managed to 
maintain loan payments and balance her budget.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 upholding the complaint. Below is an extract 
from my provisional decision. 
The regulatory framework
Miss M applied for loan one in July 2013, so the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible 
Lending Guide (OFT ILG) applied at the time. For loans two to four, the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook regulations apply. The following CONC regulations are particularly 
relevant in this case:
5.2.1R 
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake an 
assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
(2) A firm carrying out the assessment required in (1) must consider:
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement.
5.2.3G
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment. in a given case, should 
be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of 
the following:
(1) The type of credit;(2) The amount of the credit
(3) The cost of the credit;
(4) The financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) The customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties
(6) The customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) Any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) Any future changes in circumstances which could reasonably be expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;.
5.2.4G
(2) A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
(3) A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in its 
creditworthiness assessment. which may, depending on the circumstances, 
include some or all of the following:
(a) Its record of previous dealings
(b) Evidence of income
(c) Evidence of expenditure
(d) A credit score
(e) A credit reference agency report
(f) Information provided by the customer
5.3.1G
(2) The creditworthiness assessment.should include the firm taking reasonable 
steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the 
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:a) Without undue difficulty, in particular
(i) The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and 
(ii) Without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
So, in essence, Nationwide needed to check Miss Ms creditworthiness (focused on 
affordability) and the checks it carried out needed to be proportionate given the 
relevant factors. 
Loan one
Although this loan was granted under the OFT guidance, the principles are very 
similar. So, Ive first thought about whether the affordability checks Nationwide 
carried out where reasonable and proportionate. Nationwide says that before 
granting the loan, it verified Miss Ms income and then carried out an income and 
expenditure assessment. 
For expenditure, it says it increased the figure Miss M had declared for rent (from £50 
to £100) and calculated household expenditure (HE) of £490. Its not clear how it did 
the HE calculation, but given that when providing us with information it only gave an 
overall figure (£490), I think perhaps it derived this by applying some kind of average 
figure (if this is incorrect, Nationwide can clarify this). 
Nationwide says it also wouldve carried out a credit bureau check. And that there 
would have been no evidence of any CCJs, bankruptcy or payday loans.
I agree with the investigator that this doesnt represent a reasonable and 
proportionate check. I say that because Miss M was borrowing a reasonably large 
amount of money over quite a long period of time. Given that her income was very 
modest and unlikely to significantly increase, I think Nationwide ought to have gone 
further than it seems to have done, to verify Miss Ms expenditure, in order to check 
that she would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments over the term of the 
loan. 
However, due to the passage of time, neither Miss M nor Nationwide are able to 
provide any bank statements in the lead up to loan one being granted, to show what 
additional checks are likely to have found. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that 
had Nationwide carried out additional checks, it would have established that Miss M 
wasnt able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Loan two
Ive again thought about whether the affordability checks Nationwide carried out 
where reasonable and proportionate.
Nationwide has said that the checks it carried out for loan two were very similar to 
those carried out for loan one. It has said that HE was calculated using ONS 
statistics. 
Again, I dont think that the checks carried out by Nationwide were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because Miss M was increasing the amount she was borrowing and repaying over a longer term. Her income had also decreased. In the 
circumstances, I dont think that Nationwide using an ONS average figure for 
expenditure can reasonably be considered to have gone far enough in checking that 
Miss M would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments.
In terms of getting a better understanding of Miss Ms financial situation, in particular 
in relation to her income and outgoings, Nationwide couldve done this in a number of 
ways. As Nationwide didnt take these steps, I cant know what the checks wouldve 
revealed.  However, Ive seen a number of Miss Ms bank and credit card statements 
in the lead up to the loan application. 
In the absence of anything else from Nationwide showing what  proportionate checks 
would have shown, I think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on this as an indication of what Miss Ms financial circumstances 
were likely to have been. And what Nationwide wouldve likely uncovered if it had 
completed proportionate checks. In this case of course, Miss Ms current account and 
credit card were both held with Nationwide. So this information was readily available 
to Nationwide. 
After looking at the statements, the investigator concluded that proportionate checks 
wouldve shown that the loan was affordable, on the basis that after deducting 
essential expenditure from income, the loan repayments were affordable. This may 
well be true, however the bank and credit card statements show that Miss Ms total 
expenditure in the three months leading up to the loan application, was significantly 
more than her income. 
Her average monthly expenditure was around £1,270 against an average income of 
approximately £750. This is a significant and substantial difference. Miss Ms non-
essential expenditure meant that her total expenditure was significantly exceeding 
her income in such a way that it wouldve cast serious doubt on her ability to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Had Nationwide considered this information (which again, was readily available to it), 
I dont think it would reasonably have concluded that Miss M would be able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. So, I think that Nationwides decision to grant 
Miss M the loan, was unfair.
Loan three
Ive again thought about whether the affordability checks Nationwide carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Nationwide has said that the checks it carried out for loan three were very similar to 
those carried out for loans one and two. It has again said that HE was calculated 
using ONS statistics. 
Again, I dont think that the checks carried out by Nationwide were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because Miss M was again increasing the amount she was 
borrowing and repaying over an even longer term  now some seven years. Her 
income had increased, but was still a very modest figure. In the circumstances, I 
dont think that Nationwide using an ONS average figure for expenditure can 
reasonably be considered to have gone far enough in checking that Miss M would be 
able to sustainably meet the loan repayments.Again, Ive seen a number of Miss Ms bank and credit card statements in the lead up 
to the loan application. These show that in the three months leading up to the loan 
application, Miss Ms average monthly expenditure was around £1,700 against an 
average income of approximately £1,015. 
This again represented a significant and substantial difference. I again think that 
Miss Ms non-essential expenditure meant that her total expenditure was significantly 
exceeding her income in such a way that it wouldve cast serious doubt on her ability 
to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Had Nationwide considered this information, I dont think it would reasonably have 
concluded that Miss M would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. So, I 
think that Nationwides decision to grant Miss M the loan, was unfair.
Loan four
Ive again thought about whether the affordability checks Nationwide carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Nationwide has said that the checks it carried out for loan four were similar to those 
carried out for the previous loans, except that on this occasion, income wasnt 
verified. 
Again, I dont think that the checks carried out by Nationwide were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because Miss M was again increasing the amount she was 
borrowing and repaying over a significant term. Her income had increased slightly, 
but was still a very modest figure. In the circumstances, I dont think that Nationwide 
using an ONS average figure for expenditure can reasonably be considered to have 
gone far enough in checking that Miss M would be able to sustainably meet the loan 
repayments.
Again, Ive seen a number of Miss Ms bank and credit card statements in the lead up 
to the loan application. These show that in the three months leading up to the loan 
application, Miss Ms average monthly expenditure was around £2,400 against an 
average income of approximately £1,145. 
This represented an even more significant and substantial difference. I again think 
that Miss Ms non-essential expenditure meant that her total expenditure was 
significantly exceeding her income in such a way that it wouldve cast serious doubt 
on her ability to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Had Nationwide considered this information, I dont think it would reasonably have 
concluded that Miss M would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. So, I 
think that Nationwides decision to grant Miss M this loan, was also unfair.
In respect of all of the loans, it's not clear from what Miss M has said, the extent to 
which she was able to meet her loan repayments by relying on savings versus 
getting financial support from her parents. But in so far as it seems that her parents 
were providing at least some financial support to enable her to meet the loan 
repayments and that Miss M wasnt managing to do this entirely from her own 
savings, I think this means that the lending was unsustainable. 
Did Nationwide do enough to recognise Miss Ms vulnerability?Miss M has said that Nationwide didnt do enough to identify and then appropriately 
respond to her vulnerability. Nationwide says that Miss M didnt let it know about her 
vulnerability and so it wasnt something that it could take into account in any lending 
decisions. 
There is no evidence to suggest that Miss M did notify Nationwide of her vulnerability. 
Ive considered the Money Advice Liaison Group guidance that Miss M has referred 
to. Having done so, I havent seen anything in the relationship between Miss M and 
Nationwide that I consider Nationwide ought to have picked up on and investigated. I 
agree with the investigator that Miss M being in receipt of a PIP wouldnt reasonably 
have required Nationwide to explore the nature of Miss Ms disability. 
So, I cant say Nationwide needed to do anything more in this regard.
I set out that Nationwide should put things right by refunding all interest and charges and 
removing these from any outstanding balance. And if this resulted in the balance being 
cleared, refunding any surplus plus 8% simple interest. As well as removing any adverse 
information from Miss Ms credit file, as a result of the interest and charges.
Miss M didnt have any further comments to make.
Nationwide disagreed, in summary as follows:
- It believed its creditworthiness assessment was compliant with the regulations at the 
time in respect of each of the applications and proportionate given the relevant 
factors, which it set out.
- It set out the steps it has taken in general when considering personal loan 
applications and changes to the general approach over time.
- It confirmed the sources of information it took into account when considering 
Miss Ms applications. 
- Its assessment considered non-discretionary expenditure within the modelled 
Household Expenditure amount  based on ONS data. Ultimately the loan was 
deemed affordable taking into account non-discretionary costs and expenditure that 
would be normally expected in a typical lifestyle. 
- In its opinion, to request more granular expenditure items from a personal loan 
application would be disproportionate for an unsecured credit application and out of 
line with the rest of the industry.
- The impact of requiring a manual review of statements for Miss Ms applications 
would ultimately be increased price to consumers (based on higher costs) and 
potentially withdrawing from sectors in the market.
- A consumer spending more than their income is not necessarily a warning flag and is 
often a temporary position given access to savings and other sources such as 
parental income. 
- Nationwides affordability assessment will assume that non-essential expenditure is 
flexible and that if a customer has a new non-discretionary commitment to meet, that 
will lead to re-budgeting and an adjustment in non-essential spend if necessary (so in 
essence, Miss M could have lessened her non-discretionary expenditure after the 
loans were granted). 
- If Nationwide took a more cautious approach to lending (in terms of buffers for 
discretionary spend), it wouldnt be able to meet the borrowing needs of lots more of 
its customersWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do, I still uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt necessary for me to repeat the detail of the obligations placed on Nationwide when 
making lending decision, this was covered in my provisional findings which can be found 
earlier in this decision and forms part of this decision.
But the essence of it is that, before granting each of the loans, Nationwide needed to carry 
our reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M could sustainably meet 
the proposed loan repayments. And then make fair lending decisions, based on what it knew 
or found out. 
There are two primary components to creditworthiness: affordability and credit risk. It was 
Nationwides prerogative to manage the latter in line with its own lending criteria when 
deciding to lend to Miss M. But the same cant be said of the former. So, while Nationwide 
wasnt prevented from assessing its own risk as a lender, it had to reasonably assess the 
risk to Miss M of the borrowing. 
This case turns on whether the checks Nationwide carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate, given the relevant factors. And specifically here, it comes down to whether 
Nationwides use of ONS average figures in its assessment of Miss Ms expenditure, was 
reasonable and proportionate.  
And I still find that it wasnt. Each of the loans represented a significant undertaking for 
Miss M, given the amount she was borrowing, the duration of the loans, that her income was 
modest, made up entirely of benefits and unlikely to significantly increase. 
As national averages are often based on the finances of the average individual/household, it 
isnt clear whether Miss M was comparable to the reference group Nationwide chose to use. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I still think that Nationwide ought to have gone further than it did to 
check that each of the loans would be affordable for Miss M. 
I remain of the view that for each of Miss Ms loans, reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldve involved taking a closer look at Miss Ms actual expenditure, to check that the loan 
repayments would be sustainable. 
As set out in my provisional findings, Nationwide couldve done this in a number of ways. As 
Nationwide didnt take these steps, I cant know what the checks wouldve revealed.  
Neither Nationwide nor Miss M have been able to provide bank statements in the lead up to 
loan one. That being the case, I still cant reasonably conclude that had Nationwide carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks, it would likely have established that Miss M wasnt 
able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
However, Ive seen a number of Miss Ms bank and credit card statements in the lead up to 
the applications for loans two to four. 
In the absence of anything else from Nationwide showing what proportionate checks would 
have shown, I still think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on this as an indication of what Miss Ms financial circumstances were likely to have been. And what Nationwide wouldve likely uncovered if it had completed proportionate checks. As 
Miss Ms current account and credit card were both held with Nationwide, this information 
was readily available to Nationwide. 
Per the detail contained in my provisional assessment (set out earlier in this decision), the 
bank and credit card statements show that Miss Ms total expenditure in the three months 
leading up to each application, was significantly more than her income.
I still consider that, had Nationwide been aware of this (as I believe it likely would have been 
if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks), it would reasonably have 
considered that the repayments for loans two to four would likely be unsustainable. 
I have considered what Nationwide has said, in essence, that when a consumer takes on 
additional non-discretionary expenditure in the form of a loan repayment, they can then 
reduce their discretionary expenditure accordingly. 
In a situation where, prior to a loan being granted, typical discretionary expenditure takes 
total expenditure slightly beyond total income, I think it is conceivable that a borrower could 
meet loan repayments without the need to rely on others or further borrowing, by cutting 
back on their discretionary expenditure. Although, it is questionable whether such cutbacks 
would be sustainable over a period of time. 
However, here I think that the extent to which Miss Ms total expenditure was exceeding her 
income in the lead up to loans two to four, means that it would not reasonably have been 
considered realistic for her to be able to sustainably reduce her expenditure in such a way 
that the loan repayments would be sustainable over the terms of each loan. 
Nationwide has also said that a consumer spending more than their income is not 
necessarily a warning flag and is often a temporary position given access to savings and 
other sources such as parental income. 
I would first point out that Miss Ms total expenditure consistently exceeded her income in the 
lead up to loans two to four, so the evidence suggests Miss Ms deficit of income to 
expenditure wasnt in any way temporary. 
But also, the essence of what CONC says about sustainable repayments is that they should 
be affordable to the borrower without the need for them to rely on outside sources. Miss M 
says she was able to make the loan repayments through a combination of using her savings 
and relying on her parents. I have no reason to think this is untrue. And that being the case, 
while relying on her savings doesnt (according to CONC) necessarily mean the loan 
repayments were unsustainable, needing to rely on her parents, does. 
Ive thought about the other points Nationwide has made about the nature of their approach 
to assessing creditworthiness. And the implications of my provisional findings on things like 
cost (for Nationwide) and its ability to offer lending to its customers.
To be clear, its not for me to comment on Nationwides general approach to 
creditworthiness assessments (past and present). My role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable on the facts of this specific case. 
And having done that, for the reasons given, I find that Nationwide didnt act fairly when it 
provided Miss M with loans two to four. And that it needs to put this right in the way Ive 
described below.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Miss M in the position she would now be in if she 
hadnt been given the loans in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Miss M 
was given the loans and she had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Miss M back in the position she 
would be in if she hadnt been given the loans in the first place.
I dont think it appropriate for Nationwide to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
Bearing this in mind, Nationwide Building Society needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Miss M has paid to date on loans two to four.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss M. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Miss M and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to loans 
two to four, as a result of the interest and charges. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society and 
I direct it to do what Ive said above under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman