DRN-3987286
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC (trading as RateSetter) is holding him liable for a loan 
that he says was opened fraudulently in his name. 
Mr M has been represented by a third party but, for ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr M only. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In April 2022 a £9,000 loan was applied for in Mr Ms name with RateSetter. Mr M contacted 
RateSetter in May 2022 informing them that he didnt apply for it. He said an ex-employer 
from 2018/2019  who Ill refer to as Mr A  took out this loan, as well as other lending, by 
using identification documents hed previously provided to him. And that he only became 
aware of this loan after carrying out a credit search following receipt of a final demand letter 
from another loan company. 
RateSetter rejected the fraud claim. They explained the loan application contained Mr Ms 
personal information and his bank account details, where the funds were paid into. And, as 
Mr M had told them his banks security had failed, they advised him to take the matter up 
with the bank about reclaiming any lost funds. RateSetter also added that Mr M provided 
sensitive personal documents to a third party without reason or questioning the purpose of 
providing such information. They also considered the matter to be a civil dispute.
Mr M complained to RateSetter but they didnt change their position. So, Mr M referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator considered the complaint but she 
didnt think RateSetter had to do anything further. In short, she said:
She was satisfied RateSetter undertook sufficient checks prior to accepting the loan 
application.
The funds were paid into Mr Ms bank account. And his bank  that Ill refer to as the 
bank - confirmed Mr Ms address and mobile number were the same he provided to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
Bank account statements, from 2017 up to it being closed in June 2022, show normal 
payments and transfer activity. And the bank also confirmed online banking 
transactions were made using the same mobile phone number both before and after 
the loan was paid into his account. 
Thered been regular banking activity between Mr Ms bank account  that received 
the loan funds  and another business bank account Mr M was linked to which the 
funds were subsequently transferred to. 
Because of this, she thought the loan was applied for by Mr M and hed had benefit 
of the funds.
Mr M disagreed and, in short, he added:
Hes been the victim of identify fraud and hes reported this matter to Action Fraud as 
well as the police. And he naively provided his personal details and identification 
documents to Mr A as he was told it was needed for employment reasons.
He questioned what level of identify checks were completed by RateSetter. And 
given Mr A had his personal details and identification documents, how can 
RateSetter evidence it was him  and not Mr A - that took out the loan?
He questioned what relevance the bank account activity has with the loan being 
taken out fraudulently. 
He didnt use the personal bank account from September 2019 onwards.
He isnt disputing his mobile phone number was connected to the bank account.
Hes had the same mobile phone number for over ten years and hasnt had use of 
any other phone number. Hes also only ever had one personal email address.
Hed only used one mobile phone brand over the last five years and hasnt had 
access to another mobile phone. 
He was coerced into opening the business bank account by Mr A who accompanied 
him to the branch at the time  with the debit card sent to the business address which 
he had no knowledge of.
He gave Mr A online banking access to his personal bank account as, when he was 
persuaded to open the business bank account, Mr A told him he needed it for 
business purposes. 
Hes been given confirmation that a third party was accessing his bank account via 
the mobile app using a different mobile number. And all the funds transferred to the 
business bank account were linked to this same mobile number, which isnt his.
The crux of the complaint isnt about where the loan funds went but rather, that the 
loan was taken out fraudulently in the first place.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms additional points and, in short, she replied:
RateSetter confirmed Mr Ms identify and income were verified electronically via 
credit reference agencies. And the loan was paid into an account held in Mr Ms 
name, which he had access to. Confirmation of the loan was sent by email and SMS 
to the details provided in the application.
The bank has confirmed Mr Ms address, where they sent bank statements to, 
matched what he provided the Financial Ombudsman. 
The bank account activity is relevant as the loan funds were paid into Mr Ms genuine 
bank account that hes confirmed he used prior to 2019. And although Mr M said he 
didnt use the account from September 2019 onwards, there was normal activity up 
until it closed in June 2022. 
The bank has confirmed Mr Ms spending pattern on the account didnt change after 
2019, with some of the same branches and ATMs being used. The loan funds were 
transferred to the business account that Mr M was linked to as the owner. There were fund transfers between this business account and Mr Ms personal bank 
account. And a standing order set up with Mr Ms personal bank account receiving a 
credit with the reference wages. 
The bank has shown the same device ID that was registered to Mr Ms mobile 
number had been used since early 2019 on the personal account. Given Mr M says 
he was actively using the account up until September 2019, its reasonable to 
assume this was his genuine device. The same device ID had also been used for 
transactions on the business account(s) that Mr M is connected to.
The device ID did have another mobile phone number registered to it in 
December 2019. But the only way a different number could be registered with the 
same device would be if a new/different sim card was inserted into it.  
As the device ID is the same as when Mr M was using the current account, and up 
until the loan funds were paid, she remained of the view Mr M had access to the loan 
funds and transferred it to the business account which he could also access. 
She hadnt seen any evidence to show Mr A had access to transact on 
Mr Ms personal bank account. And so, considering the above, she thought it was 
most likely Mr M made the transactions himself. 
As Mr M disagrees with our Investigator, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive given careful consideration to everything hes said in 
support of his complaint. I appreciate he feels very strongly about this matter as he says he 
didnt apply for the loan and its significantly impacted him. But Ill concentrate my comments 
on what I think is relevant. So, if I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it, but its because I dont think I need to comment on it to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator as I think RateSetter has acted fairly by holding Mr M liable for 
the loan. Ill explain why.
The loan application included Mr Ms correct personal details  such as his name, home 
address and date of birth. RateSetter electronically verified Mr Ms identity and the income 
disclosed in the application via credit reference agencies. These checks didnt raise any 
concerns about the disclosed income, or that the application was being submitted by 
someone other than Mr M. And given RateSetter paid the funds into Mr Ms genuine bank 
account, I think they took reasonable steps to ensure the application was legitimate. 
As part of the application process RateSetter sent correspondence by both email and text 
message, with the loan documentation available through their online portal. The contact 
details provided in the loan application differ to those Mr M has provided the Financial 
Ombudsman. Mr M says these contact details arent his, as hes only ever used one email 
address and hes had the same mobile phone number for more than ten years. Ive 
considered this but, while the contact details do differ, I cant be sure whether theyre 
genuine or not based solely on Mr Ms testimony. 
Ive also looked at what happened to the loan funds after they were paid into Mr Ms 
personal bank account. And it was transferred, via a mobile banking app, to a business bank account that Mr M was linked to. Mr M however says that he didnt use his personal bank 
account from September 2019 onwards. And that he gave online banking access to Mr A 
when he was coerced into opening the business bank account. He therefore disputes 
making this fund transfer or having benefit of the funds. 
Bank account statements show regular and frequent activity on Mr Ms personal account 
after September 2019, and up to when the loan was applied for. This includes transfers 
between Mr Ms personal account and the business account, as well as the regular standing 
order in which Mr Ms personal account was credited with the reference wages. It seems 
unlikely that Mr M wouldve continued to receive wages from an employer after he stopped 
working for them. It also seems implausible that a scammer would legitimately operate a 
bank account they had access to for more than two years prior to making fraudulent loan 
applications. It seems more probable to me that a scammer would commit the fraud 
immediately due to the risk of access being removed.
Im aware that Mr M has provided a letter from Royal Mail dated May 2022 showing the 
cancellation of the redirection of mail due to suspected fraud. My understanding is that this 
redirection was only in place for a very short period. And so, given the quarterly statements 
for Mr Ms personal bank account were correctly addressed, I think its reasonable to 
conclude Mr M wouldve most likely received these after September 2019 (when he said he 
stopped using the account). If the personal bank account was being used without Mr Ms 
knowledge, I wouldve expected Mr M to have contacted the bank about this. I cant see that 
this happened. 
Ive also reviewed the banks records on the mobile banking app activity for Mr Ms personal 
account. It shows a new device was registered in March 2019 to Mr Ms mobile phone 
number  which Mr M has confirmed is when he was still using the account. And it was this 
device that was used to transfer the £9,000 to the business bank account. The mobile phone 
number registered to this device did change in December 2019. But this wouldve only been 
possible by inserting a new/different sim card into the same device. So, although Mr M says 
hes had the same mobile phone number for more than ten years and hasnt had access to 
another mobile phone, it seems implausible that Mr A wouldve been able to obtain Mr Ms 
mobile phone and continue to use it for several years without his knowledge. 
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded the loan was applied for fraudulently. Instead, on 
balance, I think its most likely Mr M applied for the loan and transferred the funds to the 
business account himself. It follows that I think RateSetter is acting fairly by holding Mr M 
liable for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman