DRN-3210618
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Creative Finance Corp Ltd (trading as Motorkitty) provided him 
with unaffordable logbook loans. He says he had County Court Judgements (CCJ) and 
defaults and this was reflected in his poor credit score.  
Background
Motorkitty provided Mr B with a first logbook loan for £1,200.00 in December 2018 and a 
second one for £750 a couple or so months later. Both loans were due to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that 
Motorkitty shouldnt have provided either of these loans as it ought to have realised they 
were unaffordable.
 
Motorkitty disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Motorkitty complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
B would be able to repay his loans without experiencing difficulty or suffering 
significant adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Motorkitty act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Motorkitty complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would 
be able to repay his loans without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant adverse 
consequences?
Motorkitty provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Motorkitty to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under 
these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Motorkitty had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that Motorkitty had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause 
Mr B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Motorkitty to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Motorkittys checks reasonable and proportionate?
Motorkitty says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to 
providing him with both his loans. This information was validated against payslips and bank 
statements which Mr B provided. Motorkitty says Mr Bs income was £1,400.00 a month and 
he had monthly expenditure of £430. This left Mr B with £970 in monthly disposable income 
and therefore its checks suggested Mr B had more than enough to cover the payments to 
these loans. Ive carefully considered what Motorkitty has said. But while it had a recorded expenditure of 
£430 a month for Mr B, £0 was recorded for credit commitments. And it is immediately 
evident that there are payments to existing creditors in the bank statements Motorkitty 
obtained. Secondly the sheer number of returned direct debit payments on Mr B called into 
question whether Mr B really had almost £1,000.00 in disposable income  after all someone 
with this level of disposable income is usually able to meet their direct debits. I say this while 
also mindful that for loan 2 Mr B appears to have been seeking to borrow an amount less 
than he supposedly had available to him in disposable income but on such disadvantageous 
terms.
Ive seen that Motorkitty has said that that it doesnt consider someones credit score but 
considers affordability. However, there is more to assessing affordability than simply asking 
for information and asking a prospective borrower whether the amount that will be lent to 
them is affordable  especially where a lender clearly ought to see obvious inconsistencies 
between any declarations and other information obtained.
Bearing in mind these circumstances and the inconsistencies and contradictions present in 
the information Motorkitty gathered, I think its reasonable and proportionate to have 
expected Motorkitty to have taken additional steps to questioned what it was told. And I think 
that Motorkitty needed to take additional steps to verify Mr Bs actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this Motorkitty did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr B with these loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Motorkitty that Mr B would 
have been unable to repay his loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Motorkitty that Mr B would have been 
unable to sustainably repay his loans.
Motorkitty was required to establish whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So the fact that Mr B made 
most of the payments to these loans on time, doesnt in itself present a fait accompli that the 
loans were affordable as Motorkitty appears to be arguing.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr B was 
struggling to manage his finances. It doesnt take too much probing and digging to see that 
the reason for Mr Bs difficulties and existing impecunious position is because he was 
gambling unsustainable sums of money. And his ability to repay these loans would in large 
part be dependent on his success as a gambler, which isnt any reasonable basis for 
concluding that Mr B could repay these loans without borrowing further or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences. 
So Im satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown Motorkitty that Mr B was 
unlikely to be able to repay these loans without borrowing further or suffering significant 
adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr B would not have been able to make the
repayments to his loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Motorkitty to the fact that Mr B was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Motorkitty act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive not seen anything here to suggest Motorkitty acted unfairly or unreasonably towards        
Mr B in some other way. 
Did Mr B lose out as a result of Motorkitty unfairly providing him with his loans?
As Mr B paid a high amount of interest and charges on loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Motorkitty did wrong.
So I think that Motorkitty needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Motorkitty needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, Motorkitty should put things right for Mr B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on these loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of these 
loans;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Motorkitty to take off tax from this interest. Motorkitty 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Creative Finance Corp Ltd 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman