DRN-4346611
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined a claim she made on 
her car breakdown insurance policy, and has been inconsistent in its reasons for doing so.
What happened
Mrs M and her husband had a Parts and Garage Cover policy (also known as Breakdown 
Repair Cover), underwritten by Acromas. Mrs M claimed on the policy, but Acromas declined 
the claim and Mrs M says she had to pay for the repairs herself.
Mrs M says that Acromas initially told her the policy specifically excluded wheels. But after 
she complained, it changed its rationale and said that wheels are considered part of the 
bodywork and arent a mechanical part of the car. She disagrees. Mrs M considers wheels to 
be a mechanical part of the car, and as such, she believes that they are covered under the 
policy. She says, in summary, that the wheel is a mechanical part of the car as it turns on an 
axis, enabling the car to move. The bodywork isnt involved in making the car move, and so 
isnt mechanical.
Acromas says it consulted one of its experienced technical advisers, who told it that an alloy 
wheel would only buckle as a result of an impact, and isnt a part, due to its nature and 
composition, which can become damaged via electrical or mechanical breakage. And it says 
that the policy document makes it clear that accidental damage isnt covered.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that the policy only covers mechanical or electrical failure of insured parts. 
Acromas had explained that it considers alloy wheels to be a body part, and body parts are 
specifically excluded from cover under the policy. She said the wheel simply transmits 
energy to the road, and doesnt have any moving parts. Taking everything into account, she 
didnt think Acromas had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to Acromas on 1 August 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether it was fair of Acromas to decline Mrs Ms claim. My 
starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy document explains that the cover is for situations in which the insureds 
vehicle breaks down and cant be fixed at the roadside. And it says:
The insurer will to [sic] pay up to £535 per Paid Claim towards the costs of 
repair or replacement to insured parts, labour and VAT following a Breakdown 
which occurs during the period of insurance.
Breakdown is defined as:
 A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) As a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
Mechanical or Electrical Failure is defined in the policy document as The sudden or 
unforeseen breaking or burning out (electrical) of any insured part(s).
Theres been much discussion about whether a wheel is a mechanical part. In its 
final response to Mrs Ms complaint, Acromas said the garage had said that the 
failure was as a result of the wheel buckling. It said that wheels arent classed as 
mechanical or electrical under the policy, but would be considered under the 
bodywork section.
Mrs M acknowledges that the policy specifically excludes tyres, but points out that it 
doesnt refer to wheels. She says that if Acromas wishes to exclude cover for wheels, 
it should list them in the policy exclusions. And she says that its unreasonable to 
expect a customer to realise that Acromas would consider wheels not to be 
mechanical, or to be part of the bodywork.
But I dont consider that I need to reach a conclusion on whether wheels are a 
mechanical part. This is because the policy includes a clearly headed General 
Exclusions section, listing the things that arent covered. And it says clearly that the 
policy doesnt cover mechanical or electrical failure caused by accidental damage.
So in order to make a successful claim, the need for repair would have to result from 
the sudden or unforeseen breaking or burning out of an insured part of the car and 
(among other things) not be caused by accidental damage.
Acromass technical expert said that the alloy wheel would only buckle as a result of 
an impact, and wouldnt be damaged due to electrical or mechanical breakage. In 
other words, his view was that the wheel would only have buckled due to accidental 
damage. Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Acromas to rely on what its technical 
expert told it. And given that his view was that the damage to the wheel would only 
have been caused by impact, rather than a breakdown, I think it was fair and 
reasonable of Acromas to decline Mrs Ms claim.
I can appreciate that Mrs M is frustrated that Acromas hasnt been consistent in its 
explanations for declining the claim. But Im satisfied that its decision was fair, and 
I cant fairly require it to reconsider its decision or take any other action.
Further submissions
Acromas hasnt commented on my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now 
expired. Mrs M has told us that she doesnt accept my provisional decision, and has 
explained her reasons in some detail. Ive taken everything Mrs M has said into account, but 
Ill summarise what appear to me to be the main points here.
Mrs M says, in summary, that the fact that Acromas wasnt consistent in its reasons for 
declining the claim suggests a degree of premeditation on Acromas part, rather than 
establishing the facts and then making an informed, objective decision.Mrs M has reiterated her view that it was mechanical failure of the wheel that resulted in the 
car breaking down. She says theres no evidence that the wheel suffered any impact or 
accidental damage. And she says that if Acromas had raised this before the repair, the 
wheel could have been inspected to determine whether there had been any impact or 
accidental damage.
Mrs M has commented that the decision appears to rely heavily on the opinion of Acromas 
technical expert. But she believes that determining whether an alloy wheel could only buckle 
due to impact requires a comprehensive understanding of metallurgy and material science, 
which she thinks it unlikely the technical expert had.
Mrs M says that alloy wheels are generally more malleable than traditional steel wheels, and 
this can make them susceptible to deformation and buckling even from normal use. She 
says that manufacturing defects can also result in latent weakness, which may manifest as 
mechanical failure over time. And shes pointed to websites that deal with repairs to alloy 
wheels which refer to them buckling due to poor road surfaces and hitting high kerbs. 
Taking everything into account, Mrs M doesnt believe that Acromas technical expert was in 
a position to state in such absolute terms that the buckling could only have resulted from 
impact or accidental damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said in response to my provisional decision, but 
I still dont consider that I can fairly uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has pointed to websites which refer to the possibility of alloy wheels being damaged 
by poor road surfaces  for example potholes  and hitting high kerbs. Im not an engineer, 
but nevertheless, it seems clear to me that it would be possible, in principle, to damage a 
wheel by hitting a pothole or kerb. But both those situations would amount to accidental 
damage, and would therefore be excluded under Mrs Ms Parts and Garage Cover policy. 
I accept that it might be possible, in theory, for manufacturing defects to cause latent 
weakness in a wheel. But the car wasnt new at the time of the claim, and it had quite high 
mileage. So unless the wheel was much newer, I think this makes the possibility of it having 
buckled due to a manufacturing defect unlikely. And given Acromas technical advisers firm 
opinion that the wheel would only have buckled as a result of impact damage, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of it to conclude that the damage to the wheel was most likely caused by 
some form of accidental damage. And that being the case, I dont think it was unfair of it to 
decline the claim.
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Acromas had given various different reasons 
for declining the claim, and I commented that I could see that this was frustrating for Mrs M. 
But Ive seen nothing to support Mrs Ms suggestion that Acromas reached its decision to 
decline the claim before considering the facts, or that its decision was anything other than 
objective.
Finally, I acknowledge that Mrs M has referred to a previous complaint she brought to this 
service, in which she says Acromas used similar arguments, and which she says was 
upheld. She believes this sets a precedent for this case. But we consider each case on its 
own merits, and having thought carefully about everything that Mrs M and Acromas have 
said, I dont consider that Acromas acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ms claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman