DRN-3519507
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his claim for damage 
caused to his neighbours fences when his tree fell during a storm.
What happened
Mr A bought his landlords buildings insurance policy with Ageas via a broker. During a 
storm, a tree in the garden of one of his rental properties fell, causing damage to two 
neighbours fences. He contacted Ageas but it said his policy only covered the property he 
owned, so it wouldnt pay for his neighbours fences. Ageas said the cost of removing the 
tree would be covered under his policy, but his neighbours would need to claim under their 
own policies for damage to their individual properties.
Mr A complained to Ageas because he thought his policy shouldve covered him for those 
costs. He said he had to pay for the neighbours fences because one of them threatened 
legal action if he didnt. Ageas maintained its position to decline his claim for the fences, but 
it offered a cash settlement for the costs directly related to removal of the tree.
Our investigator thought Ageas had treated Mr A fairly under the terms of the policy, so he 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A didnt agree, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr A hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
There are two parts to Mr As claim  the costs of removing the fallen tree and the costs of 
repairing his neighbours fences. There seems to be no dispute that the cost of removing the 
tree from Mr As property is covered under the policy. Ageas has offered a cash settlement 
of £2,380, which is what Mr A paid to have it removed less his excess. Im satisfied that 
Ageas offer indemnifies Mr A for that part of his claim, so I see no reason to require 
anything further, here.
Neighbours fences
The policy Mr A bought provided cover for his property, but his claim is for fences owned by 
his neighbours. Theres no dispute that the tree caused the damage to the neighbours 
fences, but Ageas declined Mr As claim because the cover was only for his property, not 
that owned by his neighbours. 
Ive looked at the policy documents to see whether Ageas declined this part of the claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. It defines property as:
The house, flat or maisonette and its domestic outbuildings and garages, at the 
address shown in the Schedule.
Mr As property address was shown in the schedule, so Im satisfied the policy only provides 
cover for his property and that Ageas fairly concluded that his neighbours fences werent 
covered. Therefore, it was reasonable for Ageas to decline this part of his claim and suggest 
that Mr As neighbours should claim under their own insurance policies. 
Looking again at the policy, under the heading, A - Loss of or damage to the Buildings 
caused by any of the following, it covers:
5. Storm or flood
9. Falling trees or branches, lamp posts or telegraph poles.
But its worth noting, here, that the policy doesnt cover:
5. Loss or damage to fences, gates and hedges
9. Damage to hedges, gates and fences.
So, even if the falling tree had damaged Mr As own fence, its unlikely cover wouldve been 
available to him. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ageas declined this part of Mr As claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Liability cover
I understand Mr A thinks that his legal liability or public liability cover should take effect here 
and, if not, that the policy was mis-sold to him. 
Any complaint about mis-selling would need to be raised separately with the broker, so I 
havent addressed that here. 
Looking at the policy schedule of cover, I see Mr A had Legal Expenses cover and Property 
Owners Liability cover. Based on the level of cover he quoted, I think Mr A was referring to 
the Property Owners Liability.
The Property Owners Liability condition provides cover for damages and claimants costs if a 
claim is made against Mr A through the courts. Im not aware that such a claim was made 
against him. However, if it was, then Mr A would need to raise this point directly with Ageas 
in the first instance. I havent considered this issue further.
In summary, its unfortunate that the tree fell onto the neighbouring fences causing damage 
that Mr A then paid to repair. However, Im satisfied that Ageas provided reasonable advice 
when he raised his claim, which was for the neighbours to claim under their own home 
insurance policies. Any arrangements Mr A made to pay the costs of repairs himself is a matter between him and his neighbours and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that Ageas should reimburse Mr A for those costs.
I wont be asking Ageas to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman