DRN-2562075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain in relation to the information provided to them by                          
Philip Williams (G INS) Management Limited (PW), an insurance intermediary, in relation to 
a group travel insurance scheme.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M are beneficiaries of a group insurance scheme which includes travel 
cover. PW administers the group insurance policy on behalf of the trustees of the 
scheme. 
A summary of relevant events is as follows:
May 2017 commencement of the annual cover
January 2018 Mr and Mrs M booked a family trip
February 2018 Mrs M waiting for surgery
May 2018 commencement of the annual cover
November 2018 Mrs M had surgery on her shoulder
January 2019 Mr and Mrs M paid the balance of the trip
February 2019 Mr M contacted PW after it became apparent that Mrs M may not 
be fit to fly on the intended departure date
March 2019 Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip
April 2019 intended trip dates
Mr and Mrs M made a claim for cancellation to the insurer. The insurer said that            
Mr and Mrs M should have told it about Mrs Ms change in health. It said if Mr and Mrs M 
had done that in February 2018 - when Mrs M was first waiting for surgery - it would 
have told them that it couldnt offer cover and they would have been given the option to 
claim for cancellation of the trip. At that point, they would have lost their deposit. So, the 
insurer offered Mr and Mrs M the deposit, less the excesses due under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M say that when Mr M phoned PW in February 2019, it should have told him 
that any change in a medical condition should have been reported to the insurer. Mr and 
Mrs M say that if PW had done that, they would have realised that they werent covered 
for cancellation of the trip. In those circumstances, they wouldnt have cancelled the trip 
and Mr M and the children would have travelled. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they were never told that they need to tell the insurer of changes 
in medical conditions. They want PW to make good their loss of over £8,000. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that PW had 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that PW had acted 
as shed expect, and she didnt think that it had given Mr and Mrs M inaccurate or 
incorrect information during Mr Ms phone call in February 2019. She said that the policy 
documents  which set out the duty to tell the insurer of medical changes - were sent by 
Mr Ms staff association.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. Mr M responded to say that he felt let 
down by PW, as it should have told him that he needed to report Mrs Ms medical 
condition to the insurer before cancelling the trip. 
Mr M said that the staff association dont distribute policy documentation  the only 
access he has to the documentation is from his works intranet site. He says that PW 
should have made him aware of the terms and conditions of his policy and that if PW 
had acted differently, this situation could have been avoided and he wouldnt have lost 
the trip. 
Mr M asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr M in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither 
he nor Mrs M will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central 
issue, that is, whether PW gave them misleading information. 
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why:
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr M and PW in February 2019. At that stage, 
Mr M hadnt decided whether to cancel the trip or not. Mr M said that Mrs Ms 
consultant wouldnt commit about whether shed be fit to fly but it was unlikely theyd 
be able to go on the trip. PW told Mr M that as hed already paid in full for the trip, he 
could decide whether to travel shortly before the intended departure date. PW told   
Mr M that it doesnt deal with travel claims. It told him that if he goes on the trip, hed 
have to tell the insurer about Mrs Ms surgery. PW gave Mr M the insurers phone 
numbers for claims and for medical screening. I think that the information PW gave to 
Mr M was clear and not misleading. 
Essentially, Mr M says that as PW didnt tell him that the insurer would decline his 
claim for the whole cost of the trip, he lost the opportunity to go on the trip with the 
children. But PW isnt the insurer and doesnt deal with travel claims on behalf of the 
insurer. It didnt have all relevant information about Mr and Mrs Ms potential claim. 
Neither did it know what, if anything, Mr and Mrs M had already told the insurer. PW 
wouldnt know what decision the insurer would come to should Mr and Mrs M decide 
not to travel and make a claim. PW wasnt obliged to gather more information from 
Mr M and speculate about whether a claim for cancellation of the trip would be 
successful or not. I dont think that PW was obliged to give Mr M any more 
information than it gave in the February 2019 phone call.
Mr M says that he didnt receive documentation about the policy, so he didnt know 
that he had to tell the insurer about changes in medical conditions. PW says that the 
summary booklet and travel policy were sent to its mailing centre for onward posting 
to all members and its for the member to ensure that the staff association have an 
up to date address. In addition, relevant documentation is available on its website 
and the website of the staff association. On balance, Im satisfied that PW made 
relevant information available to Mr M. If Mr Ms staff association didnt pass on 
documentation to Mr M, thats not something for which PW is responsible. My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman