DRN-1720014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D applied for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Godiva Mortgages Limited and 
were unhappy with the valuation that was undertaken. They say Godiva has treated them 
unfairly by basing its lending decision on that valuation. Theyre also unhappy with 
something one of their tenants - who was present for the survey - has told them the surveyor 
said.
What happened
On 7 January 2020 Mr and Mrs D applied to Godiva - via a mortgage broker - for a 
remortgage of a BTL property they own.
A valuation was undertaken on 14 January and the report came back the same day. The 
report stated The property appears to be currently occupied as a 7 person HMO [house of 
multiple occupancy] property. This arrangement falls outwith specific lending criteria. Due to 
that the application was declined, and the broker notified the same day.
On 20 January the broker appealed the decision, saying the property was rented to a large 
family who were all related. He said Mr and Mrs D had provided the passports and tenancy 
agreement to confirm it, and that there were locks on the bedroom doors as the occupants 
were adults who preferred their privacy. He also said the downstairs lounge was being used 
as a bedroom as one of the tenants is disabled. He said Mr and Mrs D were happy to get 
another survey if it was required.
Godiva reviewed things again, but decided it wasnt willing to lend and notified the broker.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Godiva and it didnt uphold their complaint.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about the surveyor, only about 
Godiva. And having considered the complaint she thought Godiva hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be the courts would be willing to look at this matter in the manner Mr and Mrs D would 
prefer, but were not bound by what a court may - or may not - do. If Mr and Mrs D think 
theyd be successful in court then they can, of course, look at taking legal action. However I 
would urge them to take good, independent, professional legal advice before doing so.
Godiva doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Godivas not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. That means I cant consider the contents 
of the valuation report (that is, whether it is accurate or not) or any allegations Mr and Mrs D 
have made about what they say the surveyor said to one of the tenants.
Godiva is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Godiva is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr and Mrs D say Godiva could have done more, such as accepting their request for a 
second valuation. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs D feel a second valuation may have helped them, but I can 
also understand why Godiva said no to that. Even if a second valuation had been carried out 
and found the property to be suitable security for the mortgage, why should Godiva consider 
that second valuation more valid? Even if a second valuation had been carried out and it 
considered the property to be suitable security, Im sure Mr and Mrs D can see why Godiva 
would be concerned about lending them a fairly large amount of money secured on a 
property that an earlier surveyor had said didnt meet Godivas lending criteria.
Godiva instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through an appeals process, and it 
was entitled to rely on its commercial discretion to not instruct a second valuation. Having 
considered everything I dont think Godiva needed to do any more. So, while I can 
appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs D, I dont feel I can 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Godiva.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman