DRN-3181331
The complaint
Miss B complains about National Westminster Bank PLC (NWB) and their decision to 
approve transactions on her account that were made by her sister who held Power of 
Attorney (POA) over her finances.
What happened
In August 2016, Miss B gave her sister Lasting Power of Attorney (LPOA) over her financial 
affairs. This POA was approved and registered by the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG).
Miss Bs sister proceeded to make several transactions on her account, as well as closing 
ISA and savings accounts and setting up new ones. And in February 2018, Miss B 
requested for NWB to withdraw the POA on her accounts with them before asking the OPG 
to withdraw the LPOA in August 2019.
After doing so, Miss B was able to review her finances. And Miss B was unhappy with the 
transactions and account changes NWB authorised so she raised a complaint.
Miss B didnt think NWB had followed the terms of the LPOA when authorising the changes 
and transactions requested by her sister without asking for her consent first. Miss B has said 
if shed have been consulted, she couldve prevented the transactions which had put her at a 
financial loss. So, she wanted NWB to refund her for the losses her accounts had incurred.
NWB responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd followed the terms of the LPOA 
which stated it could be applied as soon as it had been registered with the OPG. And they 
were satisfied it had been. So, they thought theyd acted fairly by taking instructed from Miss 
Bs sister. They explained Miss Bs sister had a duty to act in the best interests of Miss B and 
if Miss B didnt think shed done so, she should speak to the OPG or seek legal advice. But 
they didnt think this was their fault and so, didnt offer to do anything more. Miss B was 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought a valid LPOA 
was in place at the time the transactions and changes were authorised. So, they didnt think 
NWB had acted unfairly by following the instructions of Miss Bs sister. They explained the 
LPOA was a legal document setting out an agreement between Miss B and her sister as her 
POA. So, they explained it would be unfair to hold NWB responsible for a breach of an 
agreement they were not party too. So, they didnt think NWB needed to do anything more.
Miss B didnt agree. She referred to a term of the LPOA which stated as long as she had 
mental capacity, her sister could only act under the LPOA with her consent. And she didnt 
think NWB had sought confirmation of her mental capacity so didnt think they were fair to 
take instruction for her sister without confirming with her. So, she maintained her view that 
NWB had acted unfairly. As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss B. I dont dispute Miss 
Bs unhappiness with the way her sister managed her accounts. And I recognise Miss B 
believes shes suffered significant financial losses because of her sisters actions. As the 
transactions were authorised by NWB, I can appreciate why Miss B holds NWB responsible 
for these losses. But for me to say NWB are responsible, and should refund these, Id need 
to be satisfied that theyve followed the terms of the LPOA incorrectly. Or, if they didnt, that 
they acted unfairly by doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the transactions and changes Miss B is unhappy with and considered 
whether they took place during the lifetime of the LPOA. I can see the LPOA was applied for 
in August 2016 and Im satisfied it was approved and registered by the OPG as it had their 
stamp marks included. And I can see the transactions and changes Miss B is unhappy with 
occurred between this date and the date the LPOA was withdrawn from the OPG in August 
2019. So, Im satisfied an LPOA was in place at the time and that NWB were able to take 
instructions from Miss Bs sister during that time. And because of this, Im unable to say 
NWB have acted unfairly when doing so. 
But Im aware Miss B doesnt think NWB applied the terms of the LPOA correctly. And shes 
referred to a section of the LPOA where Miss B selected the option that states her sister can 
only act on her behalf with her consent. Because of this, Miss B thinks NWB shouldve 
sought her approval of the transactions and changes before they were administered. The 
same section explains Miss Bs sister could only act on her behalf without her consent if 
Miss B didnt have mental capacity. So, Miss B thought NWB shouldve sought confirmation 
of her mental capacity which they didnt do. 
And I want to recognise that I understand the point Miss B has raised due to the wording of 
the LPOA. But this doesnt change the decision Ive reached. This is because the LPOA is 
an agreement between Miss B and her sister, authorised by the OPG. This isnt an 
agreement between Miss B and NWB. So, NWB are unable to breach this agreement as 
they werent part of it to begin with.
While I recognise Miss B feels NWB shouldve done more to ensure her sister was using the 
LPOA with her consent, Ive seen Miss B signed an application made to NWB directly asking 
them to recognise her sister as her POA, with a copy of the LPOA attached. So, I think NWB 
did have reasonable consent from Miss B. But even if they didnt, I think they were fair to 
assume Miss Bs consent through the LPOA as it was Miss Bs sister who was obliged to 
follow the terms of the LPOA. If Miss B thinks her sister hasnt done so, shed need to raise 
her concerns with the OPG or seek legal advice on how she can progress these further.
So, because of the above, Im unable to say NWB have acted unfairly when authorising the 
transactions and changes Miss Bs sister made on her accounts. So, I dont think any of the 
losses Miss B says she incurred are the responsibility of NWB and because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for and I recognise it doesnt help 
repay the losses Miss B thinks shes suffered. But I hope it goes some way to explaining why 
I dont think NWB did anything wrong on this occasion and gives Miss B some clarity on the 
situation and allows her to move forward.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman