DRN-3119242
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly 
rejected a cheque because the date was written in roman numerals.
Mr B is a director of D and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr B wrote a cheque on behalf of D but the cheque was rejected by its bank, 
Lloyds. Lloyds later explained that it had been rejected as it considered the cheque to be 
illegible due to Mr Bs use of roman numerals for part of the date. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds as he disagreed that the date was illegible. He said that he had 
always written the month of the date in roman numerals and previous cheques had never 
been declined. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its policy was not to accept 
cheques written in roman numerals as this could cause confusion. And it said that had been 
its policy for decades.
Mr B remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that Lloyds had followed its policies and 
didnt think it had acted unreasonably in doing so. He also didnt think the banks policy of 
not accepting cheques including roman numerals was unfair as this was intended to avoid 
any confusion in processing.
Mr B disagreed. He said that the cheque he wrote was clear so shouldnt have been refused. 
And he said that he had always written cheques in this way and they hadnt been rejected 
previously. As Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this wont be the answer Mr B is hoping for but having considered the evidence and 
arguments, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
For me to uphold a complaint I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds made an error. In this 
case, Lloyds has explained that its policy is that it doesnt accept cheques in any language 
other than English, Gaelic and Welsh. Mr B has argued that roman numerals are part of the 
English language and understood by most. However Lloyds has explained that the reason it 
doesnt accept roman numerals is to avoid confusion. It has given the example of a cheque 
written out in the month of February using the method Mr B used. The month part of the date 
would read as II and this could easily be confused with 11, making the cheque ambiguous.
While that wasnt the case here, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to have a policy in 
place to avoid ambiguity and ensure that any cheques it honours are clear.
Mr B has said hes written cheques in this way in the past and I dont disbelieve that is the 
case. However just because those cheques were incorrected honoured, doesnt mean I can 
say Lloyds made a mistake in returning this cheque. 
Mr B has also said that Lloyds should have called him to confirm the validity of the cheque 
before refusing it. However as it wasnt completed in a format Lloyds accepted, I dont agree 
that would have made any difference in this situation as a new cheque still would have 
needed to be made out in a format it can accept. And as it isnt Lloyds policy to call the 
originator of the refused cheque, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in failing to call 
Mr B.
Mr B has also raised other situations where cheques have been declined but as these 
werent raised with Lloyds and were rejected for a different reason, his comments dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman