DRN-3589619
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked payments to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company.
What happened
Mr K attempted to make some payments from his NatWest account to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company, but the bank blocked those transactions from going through. 
While he was ultimately still able to make those payments, albeit via another method, he was 
unhappy that NatWest hadnt allowed them to go through. So, he complained. In summary, 
Mr K set out that hed confirmed  by using the two-factor authentication process  that the 
payments were genuine. Mr K felt that he should be able to make payments as he wishes, 
and he was unhappy that hed had to spend time on the phone to NatWest to try and resolve 
the matter. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. While it acknowledged that there may have been 
some inconvenience caused, it said it had taken the decision to restrict these payments as 
part of its fraud and scam prevention measures. More specifically, NatWest said that 
customers may find payments are declined if it had seen high levels of scams and attempted 
fraud  which was the case with certain cryptocurrency exchanges like the one Mr K was 
trying to pay. So, in summary, while the bank sincerely apologised for any inconvenience, it 
didnt feel as though it had acted unreasonably.  
Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An investigator here looked at what had happened and, while he could understand 
Mr Ks frustration, he didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. He said that NatWest 
had acted in-line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account when it blocked the 
payment from going through. And that, overall, it wasnt unreasonable of the bank to try and 
protect its customers money as best it could. 
Mr K disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the 
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our 
service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance, make findings about whether a 
financial business has failed the complainant in any way. 
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to ensure that the business puts things 
right for the complainant. Our awards are not designed to punish a business, nor are they 
there to make a business change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the 
future. That is the role of the regulator. 
Im aware that Mr K has made several points in his submissions. While I want to reassure 
him that I have read everything hes said and provided, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Turning to the matter at hand, Ill say first that I do recognise Mr Ks frustration at what 
happened. But even so, Im satisfied that NatWest acted reasonably in the circumstances. I 
say that because the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, which he would have agreed 
to upon opening it, shows that NatWest can stop payments being made if the bank 
reasonably believe its appropriate to protect a customers account. And Im satisfied thats 
ultimately what happened here. 
Put simply, although I fully appreciate that Mr K genuinely wanted to make the payments, 
went through a two-factor authentication process and was not a victim of fraud or a scam on 
this occasion, NatWest would still be entitled to take the action that it did. Fraud and scams 
are very serious issues, and the fact is that firms have a duty to protect their customers from 
the ever-increasing threat of such activity. Moreover, two-factor authentication isnt 
guaranteed not to be at risk of interception or manipulation. And, even though Mr K 
approved the transaction, Im satisfied that NatWest can still restrict payments in such 
circumstances if it perceives them to be high-risk.
Ive seen NatWest has already explained to Mr K that its policy, particularly with transactions 
involving crypto-assets, is first and foremost to protect its customers. Part of that is 
restricting payments which pose a real risk of financial harm and, in Mr Ks circumstances, 
NatWest decided that risk was sufficient enough. I dont think that was unreasonable. 
I say that because the bank has said it received reports from many of its customers who said 
theyd been caught out by fraud and scams when making similar payments. And I think 
NatWest would be well placed to know how many of their customers have been affected by 
fraud and scams in this area, just as it would be aware of statements released by the FCA 
and other organisations warning of the significant level of fraud and scams involving crypto-
assets. 
In the end, Mr K was able to make the transaction via another method. But he has said that 
he incurred some financial losses  like loss of earnings from his job  as a result of needing 
to take time away from work to call NatWest and discuss the matter. Hes also said hes 
unhappy with the way things were handled when he spoke to NatWest on the phone. But 
although I can understand why Mr K wouldnt necessarily have agreed with the information 
he was given when he spoke to the bank; I dont think that alters the fact that NatWest were 
simply trying to protect him as its customer. And given that I dont find the bank to have done 
anything wrong, I dont require it to reimburse Mr K for the losses hes cited.
 
Ive seen, while the complaint has been with our service, that NatWest has offered Mr K £50 
compensation for the inconvenience of time spent on the phone. Ill leave it to Mr K to 
contact the bank directly about that offer, should he wish to do so. 
In summary, Im satisfied that NatWest acted within the terms and conditions of Mr Ks 
account to prevent the payments in question. So, on that basis, I dont find that NatWest 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. And it follows that I dont require it to 
take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman