DRN-4029854
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was unable to use her National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
credit card while she was abroad.
What happened
Mrs M travelled abroad in September 2022 for around two weeks. She said she contacted 
NatWest before travelling to check whether she could use her credit card abroad and was 
told she could. However, when she tried to make payments abroad, whilst some were 
successful, several were declined. Mrs M said this was supposed to be the holiday of a 
lifetime, which was ruined because of the issues with her card. She said she had to go 
without eating at times, and she also had to borrow money from others which was very 
embarrassing. Unhappy about matters, Mrs M complained to NatWest.
NatWest reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. In summary, it initially pointed out a payment in the 
United Kingdom was declined before Mrs M went abroad, and it thought this was because 
Mrs M had reached the cumulative limit of contactless payments. Additionally, it thought the 
declined payments abroad were because an incorrect PIN was entered. NatWest said it had 
offered Mrs M some compensation as a gesture of goodwill, however this had been refused.
NatWest then reviewed Mrs Ms complaint again. On reflection, it thought the issues 
Mrs M had faced with her card abroad were due to a bank error. It also addressed some 
other issues Mrs M raised, mostly related to the service she received. It paid her a total of 
£350 compensation  comprised of £300 for the distress caused by the issues with her card 
and £50 for initially coming to the wrong decision when reviewing her complaint.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Alongside her original 
points, she was unhappy the compensation was paid straight into her account when shed 
previously declined NatWests compensation offer.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. In summary, he thought NatWests error had 
caused Mrs M inconvenience, but the overall compensation it had paid was fair. NatWest 
didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mrs M did and, in summary, mostly repeated 
her earlier points. She also said other card users were able to use their cards abroad. Mrs M 
also thought that the impact of the matter had been underestimated, and she reiterated the 
overall distress and embarrassment the matter caused her.
Ultimately, an agreement hasnt been reached. So, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date. And, to be clear, I consider the crux of 
the complaint brought to this service to be about the issues Mrs M faced using her card 
whilst abroad.
NatWest initially didnt think it had caused the issues Mrs M faced with her card and outlined 
why it thought Mrs Ms actions contributed to the issues she experienced. I can understand 
why Mrs M would have been frustrated about this. However, I was glad to see that NatWest 
reviewed matters again before writing to Mrs M with a revised opinion. 
When reviewing matters again, NatWest acknowledged it had likely made an error which 
impacted Mrs M whilst she was on holiday. In summary, it has said there was an issue with 
its systems which meant there were some inaccuracies when recording authorisation 
requests for payments from international card systems. NatWest thought this may have 
affected Mrs Ms ability to use her card whilst she was abroad. In its response, NatWest 
outlined how Mrs M could test her card to ensure it worked now, and also gave her contact 
details should she continue to experience issues. 
With the above in mind, I dont think I need to determine if NatWest was at fault here. Its 
already said its likely this was the case. What I do need to decide, though, is whether 
NatWest has done enough to put things right. 
Mrs M has been clear about how the issues with her card impacted her. Im conscious Ive 
summarised matters in less detail than Mrs M has, but I want to assure her I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered everything she has told this service.
I was sorry to hear about how matters affected Mrs M. Its clear she has been caused 
distress, inconvenience and embarrassment whilst she was supposed to be enjoying a 
holiday. And I can appreciate this would have been frustrating, given that she had contacted 
NatWest before travelling to ensure her card worked abroad. 
That said, I should explain that deciding awards for compensation isnt straightforward given 
that the issues involved are subjective by nature. I was glad to see NatWest reviewed 
matters again and acknowledged the impact caused to Mrs M. And following this, it made an 
overall offer of £350 compensation  comprised of £300 for the distress caused and £50 for 
initially coming to the wrong decision when reviewing her complaint. 
Having taken into account the strength of Mrs Ms testimony, as well as all the other 
circumstances of this complaint, in my view the amount offered by NatWest is a fair and 
reasonable one which reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. And whilst I 
appreciate Mrs M may not agree, I dont think a higher compensation award is warranted 
here. 
Ive also considered that Mrs M questioned why NatWest didnt contact her when her card 
didnt work. Mrs M might have found this helpful but, in my view, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect the bank to have capacity to contact its customers each time theres an issue with a 
card. Therefore, with all this in mind, I think NatWests resolution here is fair, and Im not 
persuaded that it needs to do anything more than it has already done.
I note Mrs M says she was unhappy that the compensation was paid straight into her 
account when NatWest investigated her complaint. Our investigator explained this is a point 
related to how NatWest has handled Mrs Ms complaint. And complaints about complaint-
handling fall outside of this services jurisdiction. This is certainly arguable. But even if I was 
able to look into this, Im not persuaded that NatWests actions here were unreasonable and 
Mrs M hasnt been prevented from bringing her complaint to this service. So, overall, whilst I appreciate Mrs M was caused some distress and inconvenience here, I 
think the compensation NatWest paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont think National Westminster Bank Plc needs to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman