DRN-2980478
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Phoenix Life Limited, trading as Sun Life {Sun Life}, mis-sold a 10-
year level term assurance plan to her in 2010.
What happened
Mrs S took out a 10-year level term assurance plan in November 2010 with Sun Life. When 
Sun Life wrote to Mrs S in October 2020 to tell her the policy was due to end, she called 
them to ask that the policy be extended. Sun Life said the policy couldnt be extended as it 
was for a fixed term. Sun Life also told Mrs S that they no longer offered level term 
assurance policies.
Mrs S complained to Sun Life the policy had been mis-sold to her. She said Sun Life hadnt 
told her the policy term couldnt be extended, and that if shed known this she wouldnt have 
taken it. Mrs S said shed struggled to pay the premiums over the term as she couldnt work 
due to illness, and that she was unhappy there was no cash value when the policy ended.
Sun Life didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. They told her the documents theyd sent her when 
she purchased the policy made it clear there was no cash-in or surrender value. They said 
they no longer offered level term assurance policies and that the policy Mrs S had with them 
was for a fixed term with no option for an extension. Sun Life said Mrs S hadnt made them 
aware she was struggling to pay the premiums during the term of the policy. 
As she wasnt happy with the response from Sun Life, Mrs S brought her complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into things for her. Sun Life provided their 
consent for us to consider the complaint. Our investigator said Mrs S made it clear to him 
that she wanted to take out life cover at the time as it was important to her. He said that Sun 
Life had provided details of the policy to Mrs S when she purchased it and said she had time 
to consider the terms of the policy to ensure it suited her circumstances. The investigator 
thought the documents Sun Life provided clearly explained the policy was for 10 years, there 
was no surrender value and there was nothing to say the policy term could be extended. Our 
investigator thought the decision of Sun Life to no longer offer level term assurance was a 
commercial decision and couldnt have been predicted at the time Mrs S took out the policy. 
The investigator thought the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She said she wanted to extend the term of her 
policy and wouldve taken out a longer term if shed been told the term couldnt be extended. 
She asked that an ombudsman decides her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life havent been able to provide a recording of the telephone call they had with Mrs S 
when she applied for the policy, so I will base my decision on what I think is likely to have 
happened at the time the policy was taken out. I understand Mrs S will be disappointed, but 
for very much the same reasons as our investigator, I dont think Sun Life have done 
anything wrong. I will now explain why.
Mrs S told our investigator she had a need for life cover at the time she took out the policy. 
So, I dont consider a term assurance policy is unsuitable as it provides life cover for a 
specific level and fixed term of her choice. The policy documents show the policy had a fixed 
term of 10-years and theres nothing in the documents Sun Life sent to Mrs S that suggests 
the policy was capable of being extended, or that it built up any cash-in value. Indeed, the 
documents Sun Life sent Mrs S explicitly say there is no cash-in value at any time.
I have heard Mrs S explain she thought the policy could be extended until her 70th birthday. 
Ive considered this, but the key-facts document Sun Life provided at the time says, Choose 
a term that ends before your 70th birthday. The same document explains Mrs S couldve 
chosen a term up to 25 years if the policy ended before her 70th birthday. So, I can see why 
Mrs S may have thought she could extend the policy term, but there is nothing in the 
documents that says the policy term could be extended once the term had been selected.
Ive considered Mrs Ss comment that if shed known the policy couldnt be extended she 
wouldve taken a longer term at the start. Taking out a policy with a longer term wouldve 
increased the monthly premium to more than the £8.00 per month Mrs S paid. I consider its 
likely Mrs S chose the £8.00 per month premium as the most cost-effective way of providing 
the cover she needed at the time, and it would be unreasonable to conclude she wouldve 
taken a longer term at an increased cost, particularly as she says she struggled to pay the 
premium for the 10 year policy.
Sun Life sent the key-facts and Policy Schedule to Mrs S at the time she took out the policy, 
and she had 30 days to change her mind if the policy didnt meet her needs. The key-facts 
document and Policy Schedule explained there was no cash-in value at any time and 
detailed the 10-year term and premium. So, Im satisfied Mrs S was provided with enough 
information for her to make an informed decision to continue with the policy and that its 
likely she felt it suited her needs when she took it out.
I appreciate Mrs S may have struggled at times to pay the monthly premium. I have some 
empathy with Mrs S that being unable to work wouldve meant she had to make difficult 
choices about continuing with the policy. But, I cant say that Sun Life were aware of the 
difficulties Mrs S faced. Unfortunately, these types of policies are not savings plans and dont 
build-up a value. So, although Sun Life may have been able to offer short-term assistance to 
Mrs S if they knew she was struggling with the payments, the policy couldnt be amended, 
and the cover would have stopped if premiums remained outstanding for more than 30 days.
 
Sometime after Mrs S took out the policy, Sun Life decided they no longer wished to offer 
level term policies like the one Mrs S had. I appreciate Mrs S is disappointed Sun Life no 
longer offered the same type of policy, but this was a commercial decision made by Sun Life, 
and I cant tell them to offer a policy they no longer provide. I also consider it would be 
unreasonable for me to say that Sun Life shouldve written to Mrs S before her policy ended 
to tell her they no longer offered this type of policy, as they wouldve had no reason to 
consider Mrs S wanted another policy at the end of the 10 year term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Phoenix Life Limited trading 
as Sun Life.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman