DRN-3913683
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (a) handled 
capital repayment holidays which had been agreed on its loans, and (b) subsequently 
managed Ts borrowing, in both cases affecting Ts credit rating and its ability to access 
other finance.
Mr T, the director of T, brings the complaint on T's behalf.
What happened
This complaint falls into two parts. 
Background to part (a)
In March 2020, T sought to take out a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) with 
Barclays. Barclays declined the application. However, in May 2020 Barclays approved 
capital repayment holidays (CRHs) on Ts three existing loans.
In September 2020, Ts relationship manager at Barclays became aware that one of Ts 
loans was in arrears, indicating that the CRH for this loan hadnt been properly processed. 
When he looked into things, he discovered that all three loan accounts were in the same 
position. None of the CRHs had been properly processed, resulting in all three loan accounts 
recording missed payments. 
Mr T understood that two of the CRHs had been properly processed, and only one CRH had 
been mis-processed. However, Barclays has explained that, although all three CRHs had 
not been processed, Ts credit reference agency (CRA) file only recorded one account as in 
arrears as the other two accounts were not required to report to the CRAs.
Barclays identified that the cause of the problem was that Mr T had cancelled the direct 
debits on all three loan accounts back in March, which had blocked the CRHs from going 
through. Mr T says that he cancelled the direct debits by phone, so Barclays must have been 
aware. He also says that he made his relationship manager at Barclays aware at the time, 
and that he mentioned it to Barclays again in June when he realised that no interest had 
been taken. However, there is no record of any of these conversations. Mr T also says that 
Barclays should have been aware much earlier through its systems that the direct debits had 
been cancelled, and that the CRHs hadnt been processed properly.
In September, Barclays reinstated the direct debits so that the interest on all three loans 
could be paid, and it re-processed the CRHs, back-dating them to March 2020. However, 
this took some time as the removal of the arrears required internal approval. Once the CRHs 
were fully processed in January 2021, and letters issued to T confirming this, it then sought 
to address the information on Ts CRA file. 
Barclays took a few weeks to gain internal approval for it to apply to amend Ts CRA file, but 
it believes that by the end of March 2021 Ts record had been updated. Mr T doesnt agree. 
He says that his relationship manager spoke of two files: one the bank could see and one he 
could see. Mr T doesnt believe his CRA file was updated until May 2021.
Mr T complained to Barclays on a few occasions. In its first response, in January 2021, 
Barclays acknowledged that its systems had failed to flag the arrears which had accrued on 
Ts three loan accounts, and that T had received no notification until September 2020. It 
apologised and offered T £200 in compensation.
In a later response, in June 2021, Barclays acknowledged that it had also taken longer to 
correct Ts CRA file than ideal, and increased its offer of compensation to £300.
In Barclays view, given that the poor credit information on Ts CRA file arising from the 
missed loan repayments was a result of Mr T cancelling Ts direct debits rather than a bank 
error, it was under no obligation to seek an amendment to Ts CRA file. However, as the 
bank acknowledged that it had failed to pick up the arrears as early as it might, it then 
worked pro-actively to make the change. Barclays said that it could not be held responsible 
for any consequences of the information on Ts CRA file.
Background to part (b)
The repayments on Ts three loans recommenced at the end of March 2021. However, T 
had insufficient funds in its current account to meet the repayments.
Mr T says that he requested Barclays grant a further six-month extension to the CRHs on its 
loans, in which period he would have sought to obtain a CBIL. But this request was denied.
Barclays says it understood from Mr T that T had agreed a large new facility with a bridging 
finance provider, for which Barclays had approved a deed of priority. Barclays says that it 
agreed that T could extend its overdraft beyond its limit to make the loan repayments, with 
the understanding that the overdraft would be brought back within its limits as soon as the 
bridging funds were available. However, Mr T has a different recollection. He says that he 
made clear to Barclays consistently that the bridging funds were needed to finance the 
working capital of the business. He says that his intention was always, once the credit file 
updated, to access alternative finance at lower rates (eg through a loan under the Recovery 
Loan Scheme).
By May 2021, the overdraft had grown considerably, and Barclays was unwilling to provide a 
further extension. It also became aware that the bridging funds had been put into Ts 
business to fund working capital. Barclays therefore had significantly less confidence that the 
extended overdraft would be imminently repaid and, in June 2021, it recorded an 
unauthorised overdraft on Ts CRA file. 
Mr T says that, no sooner had Barclays fixed the problem with the incorrect records on Ts 
CRA file, it immediately declared T to be holding a large unauthorised overdraft. He says 
that T then had no chance to access a Recovery Loan or other longer-term finance, which 
immediately placed T in serious financial difficulties. 
T satisfied its loan repayments in June and July 2021 from funds held with a different bank 
but failed to make its loan repayments in August. At this point, due to the overdraft balance 
being significantly in excess of the agreed limit, Barclays ceased honouring any payments 
presented. However, Barclays believes that, by this point, T was undertaking much of its 
banking activity through a different bank, so it doesnt believe the inoperability of Ts account 
with Barclays is likely to have had much impact on T.Mr T says that Barclays sabotaged his business by denying it the opportunity to seek 
alternative finance between its CRA file being updated and its large unauthorised overdraft 
being recorded. He says that, as he could not source alternative funds, not only did his loans 
with Barclays go into default but he was also unable to repay the two bridging loans T had 
taken out in 2020 when, due to Ts CRA record, no other finance was accessible. He says 
these bridging lenders are pursuing his personal assets to recover their debt, and T is 
incurring very high default interest rates and fees while this continues. 
Barclays says that it has continued to seek to engage Mr T in discussions to support his 
business and to work out a resolution.
The involvement of our service
In July 2021, not content with Barclays responses to his complaints, Mr T brought them to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and gathered detailed evidence from both sides. 
With regard to part (a), she concluded that Barclays had been slow in identifying the arrears 
on Ts loan accounts but said that the £300 offered by Barclays was reasonable. She did not 
believe that Barclays could be held responsible for Ts adverse CRA file when the cause of 
the arrears was Mr T cancelling the direct debits on the loans; and, therefore, it could also 
not be held responsible for T being unable to access alternative loan finance. 
With regard to part (b), our investigator said that Barclays actions with regard to Ts 
overdraft were reasonable in the circumstances. She found that Barclays reviewed Ts 
financial position carefully in March 2021 when it declined to extend the CRHs, believing T to 
be profitable and to have imminent access to additional finance; but, given the growth in the 
overdraft facility between March and June 2021, it was reasonable for Barclays to limit its 
further use to fund the loan repayments and to record the overdraft as unauthorised. Our 
investigator said that, for this reason, Barclays could not be held responsible for any adverse 
effects on T from its unauthorised overdraft being reflected on its CRA file.
Mr T disagreed with this view. Amongst other things, he said that:
It is not credible that Barclays were not aware of the cancellation of the direct debits 
in March 2020 or that Barclays systems wouldnt have alerted it to Ts loan accounts 
being in arrears
Barclays failed to notify T of its loan accounts going into arrears, so it was unable to 
take any action to avoid the record on Ts CRA file
Given Barclays had approved the CRHs, it should have noticed that they hadnt been 
processed
Mr T did notice that interest wasnt being taken and discussed this with Barclays 
relationship manager, but he also thought it wouldnt be unusual for interest to roll-up 
with the outstanding debt
In March 2021, Barclays might have looked at Ts profitability to determine that an 
extension to the CRHs wasnt required, but it should have considered its free 
cashflow, which clearly wasnt positive
As far as T is aware, its CRA file held no adverse information in March 2020 which 
would have prompted Barclays decision to reject its CBIL application, or to affect Ts 
later applications for finance
In response to Mr Ts comments, we asked Barclays to provide more information about its 
decision to reject Ts CBIL application. Barclays explained that it considered the application 
according to its standard processes, including assessing the affordability of the loan, Ts previous track record and risk grading. Barclays said that, on the basis of the information 
available, the risk factors were such that it was unwilling to approve the requested loan.
Mr T said that Ts inability to access a CBIL or Recovery Loan was entirely in consequence 
of Barclays actions, both in 2020 when Barclays failed to properly process the CRHs, and in 
2021 when it refused to extend the CRHs in place and later recorded a large unauthorised 
overdraft. He said both actions had resulted in T being unable to access appropriate sources 
of finance, causing it first to require expensive bridging loans, and then to be unable to repay 
those loans.
As the complaint could not be resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 and invited further responses from both T 
and Barclays. 
Barclays said that it did not object to the outcome proposed.
Mr T provided a detailed response. I have reflected his comments and my views on them 
within this decision. However, overall, having considered his evidence very carefully, I have 
not changed the outcome of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between T and Barclays and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint.
Part (a)  March 2020 to March 2021
Barclays has acknowledged that (i) its systems failed to identify as quickly as they should 
that Ts three loan accounts were in arrears, indicating that the CRHs hadnt been 
processed; and (ii) it took longer than ideal for Ts CRA file to be rectified. I think this is a fair 
summary of Barclays mistakes.
I believe Mr Ts error was to cancel the direct debits, which were required for interest on the 
loan accounts to be paid. He did this before any CRHs had been agreed with Barclays. 
Unfortunately, I am unable to confirm when his request to cancel the direct debits was 
communicated to Barclays but, given there is no record on Ts account file with Barclays and 
that Ts relationship manager at Barclays agreed to process the CRHs (which was 
dependent on the direct debits being in place), I think it unlikely that the relationship 
manager or any others involved in dealing with Ts loan at Barclays were aware of Mr Ts 
action. Mr T believes that Barclays must have known that the direct debits had been 
cancelled and that, as one organisation, this information must have been available to his 
relationship manager. But I dont believe that to be the case. Mr T manages the payments 
from his account and all Barclays did was process a mechanical change to his payments at 
his request. I see no reason why this should be flagged to Ts relationship manager. 
Given it was the cancellation of the direct debits which blocked the CRHs being properly 
applied, I believe Mr T is primarily responsible for the arrears manifesting on Ts loan 
accounts and therefore for the information which was recorded on Ts CRA file.Mr T has said that, at the point of cancelling the direct debits, he had no tenable alternative 
as the payments would have sent the accounts above their limit, which he believes would 
have resulted in Barclays rendering the accounts inoperable. Mr T believes that, in the 
context of the Covid-19 pandemic which had removed all Ts trading income, cancelling the 
direct debits was an entirely reasonable action to take to protect his business. However, in 
my view, given the CRHs only provided a holiday in capital repayments, Mr T should have 
been aware that interest payments would still be required. Therefore, even had he 
temporarily removed the direct debits, he should have restored them once the CRHs had 
been in principle agreed. As stated above, I do not believe it likely that Mr T made his 
relationship manager aware that he cancelled the direct debits as, had he done so, I believe 
the relationship manager would have anticipated the problem and required the direct debits 
to be restored before the CRHs were processed.
Nevertheless, Barclays failure to identify the arrears for several months did cause the 
problem to persist. And its slow response to removing the information, also caused it to stay 
there for longer than should have been necessary. So I have considered the effects of these 
mistakes. 
Mr T says that he would have been able to access a CBIL or Recovery Loan on more 
favourable terms than the bridging finance into which he was forced. 
However, Barclays rejected Ts application for a CBIL in April 2020 prior to the adverse 
information relating to arrears on one of Ts loans with Barclays appearing on Ts CRA file. 
The letter supplied to Mr T at the time, in May 2020, explained that Barclays had concerns 
about Ts ability to make the necessary repayments. 
Mr T believes that Barclays rejected Ts application for a CBIL with little scrutiny. He says 
that, up until the government restrictions in March 2020, Ts borrowing with Barclays was in 
good standing. 
Therefore, I asked Barclays for more detail about its decision. This information demonstrated 
that Barclays had substantial concerns about Ts ability to service the additional debt sought 
by T given its existing borrowing. And although this decision was made in April 2020, the 
information on which it was based largely pre-dated the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Barclays assessed the application with insufficient 
scrutiny or bias. 
Mr T has said that, alongside applying to Barclays, T also applied for a CBIL to two other 
banks with which it had an existing relationship. He says that both of these banks would 
have reviewed the same information as Barclays, and both offered T a CBIL. T accepted a 
CBIL from one of these banks shortly after the rejection of its application from Barclays.
However, while the CRA information from the banks would have been similar at this time, the 
information available to Barclays, as Ts principal bank, would have been substantially more. 
Barclays would have had a much richer view of the affordability of the CBIL to T and 
decided, on the basis of all the information available to it, not to lend.
Mr T has said that, by the time further restrictions were introduced, at the point when T 
would have sought additional funding, new and extended CBILs were available. It is this 
possible lending (or a Recovery Loan) which Mr T believes T was prevented from accessing 
due to Barclays mistakes.
However, it appears to me that, by this time, T had even greater levels of debt through its 
CBIL with another bank than it had in April 2020 when Barclays rejected its CBIL application. 
This additional borrowing would have made Ts ability to service a further loan even more difficult. I am unable to access information from the two other banks with which T had a 
relationship but, on the basis of it having been rejected already by Barclays and since then 
having taken out additional borrowing with one of those other banks, I do not believe it likely 
that T would have been able to access further funds as readily as Mr T has suggested.
In my view, while I cannot be sure how another lender would have considered the 
information available, I do not believe that T would have accessed at this time a further CBIL 
or Recovery Loan from another lender even were the mistaken information relating to its 
Barclays loan not on its CRA file.
Therefore, while I acknowledge that this is a judgement with which Mr T is likely to disagree, 
I am not persuaded that, on the balance of probabilities, Barclays mistakes caused T any 
loss.
For these reasons, I do not believe it would be fair to require Barclays to compensate T for 
any increased borrowing costs it incurred in taking out bridging loans compared with a CBIL, 
Recovery Loan or other lower-rate facility.
However, I do believe that Barclays mistakes caused T substantial inconvenience. Barclays 
has already offered £300 in compensation, but I believe this to be insufficient. Had the 
problems with Ts CRA file been identified earlier, and had it been rectified quicker, Mr T 
could have applied more quickly for other finance. He might have ended up with an 
expensive bridging loan but he would have gained clarity on this financial situation sooner  
and saved considerable time and effort. I believe a payment of £1,000 is more appropriate 
(ie £700 more than previously offered).
Mr T also suffered substantial distress caused by Ts CRA file displaying the incorrect 
information for longer than necessary. However, the complainant in this case is T, which, as 
a company, cannot feel distress. Therefore, I am unable to make any award to Mr T for the 
distress he suffered.
Part (b)  March 2021 onwards
Barclays agreed with Mr T to grant CRHs over Ts three loans for 12 months. It was under 
no obligation to extend the CRHs beyond this period. 
Ive looked at Barclays assessment of Ts financial position in March 2021, and it appears to 
me that Barclays decision not to extend the CRHs further was reasonable. This assessment 
included an understanding that T had accessed bridging funds which would be used to bring 
down Ts overdraft. Mr T says Barclays should never have had this expectation as he had 
made it clear these funds were required for working capital in the business, but there are no 
records of these calls. Overall, on the basis of the evidence available to Barclays, I think it 
reasonable that Barclays chose not to extend the CRHs. 
Instead, Barclays offered T to use its overdraft temporarily to make the loan repayments. 
However, three months later, it became apparent that the bridging funds were not going to 
be used as Barclays expected, the overdraft had increased substantially and there was no 
prospect of it being repaid. Therefore, at this point, I think Barclays acted reasonably in 
recording an unauthorised overdraft.
For these reasons, with regard to part (b) and Barclays actions from March 2021 onwards, I 
think Barclays acted reasonably and I do not require it to take any further action.I appreciate that Mr T will be disappointed with this decision. However, while I have great 
sympathy for Mr T and the situation he now faces, I do not believe I can reasonably require 
Barclays to do any more than I have set out. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay T £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman