DRN-3558548
The complaint
Mr F complains that hes lost out financially due to Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd (Aviva) 
selling his pension investments after he withdrew his instruction to disinvest and hold his 
pension in cash. 
He also complains that Aviva didnt properly action his request to remove the adviser from 
his pension plan.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Fs complaint in May 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold his complaint, but that I proposed to make a different order for redress to that set out 
in our investigators view. Aviva accepted my provisional decision, Mr F did not.
Background
Mr F had a pension plan with Aviva. This was taken out through an adviser. The plan was 
set up for the adviser to be paid ongoing charges for providing advice. Mr F contacted 
Aviva to remove the adviser. Aviva told him the adviser charge would be cancelled going 
forward. Aviva accepts not removing the adviser charges and also not updating its 
records to show that Mr F no longer had an adviser. As consequence of Aviva not 
updating its records, Mr F was not able to manage his plan online and make trades 
personally, which he should have been able to do.
On 12 March 2020, Mr F contacted Aviva because he wanted to sell his pension 
investments and hold them in cash. Mr F discovered he was unable to do this on-line. 
Aviva sent an acknowledgement to say it could take between five and ten days to give 
effect to his instructions.
This was longer than Mr F expected and given the volatility of the markets due to the 
Coronavirus pandemic, Mr F reviewed his position. Mr F said having discussed things with 
his wife on the evening of the 12 March 2020, he decided it was best to cancel his 
instruction to disinvest.
On 13 March 2020, Mr F called Aviva. The agent he spoke to confirmed that trade requests 
were usually processed within 24 hours, but as they had to contact the fund managers in 
his case, it could take five days or more for the funds to be available. Mr F made it clear 
that he still wanted to cancel his instruction to sell off his investments.
Aviva accepts that in error, it overlooked that Mr F had withdrawn his disinvestment 
instruction. It went on to convert his pension assets into cash.
On 23 March 2020, Mr F looked at his plan on-line and noticed his investments had 
been sold and converted into cash. He called Aviva on 25 March 2020. Mr F later learnt 
that customers couldnt contact Aviva at the time by phone due to the pandemic. So,  
Mr F then emailed Aviva to understand what his options were arising from this error.
On 6 April 2020, Mr F raised a complaint, not having heard back from Aviva. He began 
reinvesting his pension from this date. He explained however, that not having heard back 
from Aviva, he wasnt sure whether there had been a system error and whether his portfolio 
would be readjusted to the position pre- disinvestment, as if his investments had not been 
sold.
On 28 April 2020, Aviva wrote back accepting it had sold off his investments in error. When 
discussing how to compensate him for its error Aviva said this:
I will assume your sell down instruction was placed when you originally requested 
this on 12 March 2020. If there has been a loss, I will apply a cash adjustment to your 
portfolio, which you can then invest as you wish.
Can I ask that you:
1. Let me know by 01/05/2020, if I have understood this correctly. If I don't hear from 
you by this date I will assume I have understood it correctly and proceed accordingly.
2. Please take this opportunity to let me know of any impact this has had on you.
Mr F responded on 30 April 2020 saying this:
I am therefore prepared to accept a second method which is to assess the financial 
impact to myself of the incorrect sell-down versus what my fund value would now be, as if 
the error and sell- down had not occurred.
On 1 May 2020, Aviva sent Mr F its final response, upholding his complaint. It set 
out how it intended to put things right. This included assessing his loss based on 
him selling his investments on 12 March 2020, the date it said he would have been 
able to complete the transaction on-line himself, if the system had been updated to 
show he no longer had an adviser.
On 4 May 2020 Aviva sent a further response. It concluded he had lost 
£2,575.67 and offered an additional £150 compensation for any distress 
caused.
On 14 May 2020 Aviva sent another response. This time it said it had calculated his loss 
to be £2,918.26 loss, which had been added to his pension plan. An additional £150 
compensation was offered for distress and inconvenience. Mr F didnt accept this offer, 
pointing out what he said were errors in the calculation of the redress.
On 22 June 2020 Aviva sent a further response with an additional £200 
compensation. It calculated that Mr F had lost out financially by a further £33,385.50 
and this was paid into his pension plan that day (total loss £36,303.76). Mr F didnt 
accept Avivas revised offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Aviva accepted that Mr F should not have been paying an adviser charge from 
April 2019 onwards. It agreed to repay these charges and included them in the loss 
assessment. Aviva also accepted that once the adviser was removed, Mr F should 
have been able to make changes and trades on-line. Aviva also accepted that the 
timescales for making the trades should have been made clearer and that an error 
was made when it overlooked that he had withdrawn his disinvestment instruction. 
Our investigator concluded the only issue left for him to determine was the basis on 
which Mr Fs loss should be calculated and whether Aviva had carried out its loss 
assessment in a fair and reasonable manner.Our investigator concluded that the basis upon which Aviva had calculated Mr Fs 
financial loss was not fair and reasonable. The investigator took the view that the £600 
Aviva offered for the distress and inconvenience caused, was , however, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It was understood that Mr F had been paid this.
Our investigator proposed that Mr Fs financial loss should be calculated as follows, as if:
Mr F cancelled his instructions on 13 March 2020, his pension plan was not 
disinvested and remained in the same funds.
.Any loss Mr F suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of 
the pension plan on the basis the funds hadnt been sold, and subtracting the 
current  value of the pension from this notional value, taking into account the 
investments Mr F made after 6 April 2020.
Neither Mr F nor Aviva accepted our investigators view.
My provisional decision
I set out a different methodology for calculating loss in my provisional decision. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr F didnt accept my provisional decision and said, in summary:
He could not get through to Aviva due to staff working at home because of the 
pandemic, all communication had to be by email.
His situation warranted a call back and the fact that Aviva didnt call him added to the 
stressful situation for him and his wife.
He couldnt reinvest in virtually all of the funds he was originally invested in. So he 
had to spend time and effort searching for funds matching those in his original 
portfolio. Aviva has misrepresented the position about being able to reinvest in the 
original funds.
Reasonable time should have been given for him to investigate and reinvest a large 
sum of money, given he was unable to just reinvest it in the same funds. 
He was left with £600,000 cash, one or two original funds to invest in and no 
experience of selelcting funds and using the Aviva platform.
He was left in a vulnerable positon, especially given how fast the markets were 
moving at that time. He had to act quickly to mitigate his losses. 
On 1 May 2020, Aviva made it clear that it would not be buying/selling his reinvested 
funds to try and restablish his original position.
An additional 12 days to 12 May 2020 to fully reinvest is just and not unreaonable 
given all the circumstances and the fact that he had to make complex 
investigations and decisions. 
He tried to mitigate his loss as best he could, trying to resolve Avivas error. He was 
fully reinvested within a reaonable timeframe by 12 May 2020. 
In the early stages, Aviva sent a worksheet showing loss calculations which were 
incorrect. He highlighted this to Aviva, who in response wrote telling him that it was 
closing his case. Only through repeated emails did he get Aviva to reconsider its 
position. The error was over £30,000 in his favour. Aviva was not open and 
transparent about the reason for the error.
Aviva has let him down in many ways, from failing to update the position regarding 
the adviser, which restricted his on-line trading capacity, incorrect charges, selling 
down his entire portfolio, having no processes or controls to stop this, not speaking 
with him or responding about this over a prolonged period causing further stress and not producing an accurate spreadsheet to calculate his loss. 
Taking all of this into account, he feels £600 is inadequate redress for the upset and 
stress caused. He is still missing out on compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused over the last two years and the impact this has had on his 
retirement planning.
Any compensation payment(s) can be made directly to his portfolio without any tax 
issues or investment limits.
He asks that Aviva makes available the workings for calculating redress and that 
interest is paid given the delay.
He asks that Avia confirm what the average spread or difference between a fund 
buying price and a fund selling price is, typically 2-5% he thinks. Further he asks 
for it to be taken into consideration that most funds also have a percentage charge 
when you first make a purchase and this additional loss should be included as he 
had to buy into either his original or new portfolio. He accepts a new portfolio is his 
choice and therefore his responsibility. 
Mr Fs complaint comes back to me to consider.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Fs further representations. I am sorry to disappoint Mr F, but my 
view has not, for the most part, changed. Ill explain why.
There were three main errors made by Aviva here:
It didnt remove the adviser charges when Mr F decided not to carry on using an 
adviser.
It didnt make the system changes required, so that Mr F could personally trade on-
line.
It didnt comply with Mr Fs instruction given on 13 March 2020, not to convert his 
pension assets into cash.
Mr F also sets out how Aviva has let him down in the handling of his complaint about 
these issues  in particular the timeliness of its response and its calculation of redress.
The issue left for me to decide here is how to compensate Mr F for these shortcomings, in 
particular:. 
the methodology to be used to assess fair compensation for financial loss; and 
whether the offer made for non financial loss (trouble and upset caused) is fair and 
reasonable.
Adviser charges
Im told Aviva has refunded the adviser charges. So, I dontt need to consider this aspect 
of Mr Fs original complaint.
System not allowing on-line trades
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive noted what Avivas said about the fact that Mr F 
wouldnt have been able to cancel his disinvest instruction, had the system been set up 
properly for him to make on-line trades. However, he couldnt trade on-line at the time in question, due to an earlier accepted error by Aviva. He was told the next day on the phone 
that his trade from the day before could be cancelled (it not being an on-line trade). So, I 
dont think it fair or reasonable to proceed on the basis that Mr F should be treated as if he 
didnt have the option to cancel the instruction to disinvest on 13 March 2020. The only 
reason it wasnt cancelled, is because Aviva made a further error. He was told he could 
cancel, even if that possibility arose as a consequence of an earlier error. The irrevocable 
on-line trading option wasnt available to him on 12 March 2020. I agree with our 
investigator, it would not be fair or reasonable therefore to proceed on the basis that loss 
should be calculated from 12 March 2020.
Assessing loss for disinvesting
After Mr Fs funds were disinvested, he contacted Aviva very soon after to try to get this 
rectified. When he didnt hear back, he effectively had two choices - leave things as they 
were, with his pension in cash, or invest the funds, not knowing what Avivas position was 
on whether this was a system error that might be rectified by it.
Its not in dispute that Aviva disinvested Mr Fs pension funds contrary to Mr Fs 
instructions. Mr F should, therefore, be treated as if those funds remained invested as 
before, until a time when it was clear that moving forward, Mr F knew he was responsible 
for his own investment decisions.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think that became clear on 1 May 2020, when Aviva 
confirmed in writing that it was not going to rectify the situation by restoring his pension 
account to its original pre investment position, instead there would be a cash adjustment, 
which he could choose how to invest himself going forward.
Aviva first made contact with him on 28 April 2020, accepting then, it had made an error. 
This was around a month after he first contacted it about the disinvestment and at a time 
of significant market volatility. Until this point, Mr F didnt know how Aviva would respond. 
Mr F did not become fully reinvested until 12 May, two weeks later. 
I think Mr F wouldve known from 1 May 2020, that he would be responsible for the 
investments decisions he made going forward.  I note on 30 April Mr F proposed a second 
methodology for calculating loss. Mr F said: 
I am therefore prepared to accept a second method which is to assess the financial impact 
to myself of the incorrect sell-down versus what my fund value would now be, as if the error 
and sell-down had not occurred.
Aviva accepted the next day the notion that Mr Fs policy shouldnt be re-constructed and 
going forward he would be free to invest as he wished.
I dont think it would be fair for another notional valuation date to be used to calculate fair 
compensation, I think what Mr F proposed at the time in question was reasonable he 
proposed that his fund was valued now.  
Mr F didnt invest in the same funds after 6 April 2020 as he was invested in 
originally. This doesnt lead me to conclude, as Aviva suggests, that he had formed 
an intention from the outset to switch funds. I think he did so from this date, to try to 
mitigate any loss he may have.
Ive not seen anything that leads to me to conclude that it was not open to Mr F to invest 
in the same investments he was previously invested in. However, I also accept, it may 
have been harder for him than it was for Aviva to locate these on a system which offered 
lots of choices. So, at the time of events, I can see why Mr F wouldve reasonably 
believed this option wasnt open to him, even if it was.
Based on the information available to him at the time, and the volatility of the markets, I think 
Mr F acted reasonably by seeking to mitigate his loss. I accept what hes said about reinvesting tentatively to begin with, whilst waiting to hear back from Aviva. Had Aviva been 
able to put things right sooner, it would have been clear to Mr F at an earlier stage, how 
Aviva viewed matters and whether this was a system error, which might right itself.
By the time that Aviva did contact Mr F, he was well on the way to making investment 
choices. The need to come up with an investment strategy was rather sprung on him as a 
result of Avivas error and at a time of significant uncertainty, which must have been 
unsettling for Mr F. 
I dont think it can be reasonably held against Mr F that he didnt ask Aviva for assistance 
about fund choices. Aviva didnt come back to Mr F for around a month after he 
contacted it about its error. Having heard nothing from Aviva in the interim, to an extent 
the opportunity of asking for assistance had passed. I appreciate that at the time Aviva 
was likely trying to mobilise a home-based workforce due the pandemic and that this 
presented communication difficulties. But the reality of that situation was, Mr F had to 
make decisions, arising from Avivas mistake, not knowing how Aviva was going to 
respond.
Mr F was not fully reinvested by 1 May, but I think he was aware from then that he was 
responsible for reinvesting the disinvested cash going forward. I have taken into account 
what he says in response to my provisional decision about it being just to allow him 
another 12 days from 1 May 2020 to get fully invested. I have balanced that against Mr F 
indicating to Aviva on 30 April  that his policy should be valued now as if the sell down 
had not occurred. So after that time, keeping some money in cash for around another two 
weeks, was a choice I think he made, albeit one that was foisted upon him, rather than it 
being purely of his own volition. 
So, overall, I think it fair and reasonable to calculate Mr Fs loss on the presumption 
that his pension investments would have remained invested in the investments they 
were previously invested in until 1 May 2020, by which time he had indicated to Aviva 
that he was prepared to take responsibility for his investment decisions going forward.
Putting things right
I make the following award for compensation. In awarding fair compensation, my aim is 
to put Mr F back into the position he would likely have been in, had it not been for 
Avivas error. I think this would have meant Mr F remaining invested in the same funds 
as he was invested in on 13 March 2020, until 1 May 2020, when he took responsiblity 
for his own investment decisions going forward.
I think it was apparent to Mr F that from 1 May 2020, he was responsible for the 
performance of his fund after that.
Any loss Mr F suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension on the basis the disinvested funds remaining invested until 1 May 2020, in the 
same manner as they were invested on 12 March 2020 and subtracting the actual value 
of his pension fund as at 1 May 2020. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no 
redress is payable.
If Mr F has suffered a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into Mr 
Fs pension plan. 
Mr F said in response to my provisional decision that Aviva should be required to pay 
interest on any loss calculated. I agree that would be a fair and reasonable thing to do 
given that Mr F did not have the benefit of this money to invest. .Aviva has agreed to pay interest. So, I order that Aviva should also pay interest if Mr F has suffered a loss. Interest 
is payable at 8% simple per year on any loss from 1 May 2020 until the date of 
settlement.
Credit should be given for the amounts already paid into Mr Fs pension fund by Aviva for 
the disinvestment loss aspect of his complaint when assessing any compensation to be 
paid and interest payable. Mr F has also received a refund for overpaid adviser charges, 
which is unaffected by the award here.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. Mr F believes this will not be an issue.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr F hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately.
Aviva must provide details of its loss calculation to Mr F in writing in a clear and simple 
format.
Mr F has clearly been caused some trouble and upset to his retirment planning by Avivas 
actions here. Having regard to other awards made by this service, I remain of the view that 
£600 is an appropriate amount of compensation to redress the shortcomings identified.
I understand that Aviva has already paid Mr F £600 in compensation overall, for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error or omissions. I therefore make no further award for 
trouble and upset.My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and order Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman