DRN-3098437
The complaint
Mr S complains Vanquis Bank Limited will not refund some disputed transactions. He also 
complains about the customer service he received when he complained.
Vanquis says it thinks the transactions were authorised and that it has apologised to Mr S 
about its level of service and compensated him accordingly.
What happened
Mr S complained to Vanquis about some transactions on his credit card.  They were carried 
out between 4th and 8th September 2020.  Every transaction was an ATM withdrawal using 
Mr Ss card and PIN, but he said he didnt recognise them and certainly hadnt made them.
The transactions were reported to Vanquis on 8th September  a few hours after the last 
ATM withdrawal.  During that initial call, Mr S told Vanquis that he had seen the transactions 
after he had logged into his account to pay his balance.  He didnt have his card with him at 
that moment, but he normally kept it in his car as an emergency and used it rarely.  He had 
last used it on 2nd September.
He also told Vanquis that he recalls keeping his letter containing his PIN at home  and in 
his fraud declaration he said his card had been left unattended but that it was not possible 
for someone to have taken his card, use it and return it.
Vanquis did not uphold his complaint in relation to the transactions.  However, it accepted its 
service fell below its normal level and for this it offered Mr S £75.  Mr S didnt accept this and 
came to this service.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Vanquis to do anymore.  He explained this to Mr S 
in detail. Mr S responded with further submissions.  He said he had been sent a message 
from Vanquis telling him he had used a considerable amount of his balance and this had 
prompted him to check his balance.  This is how he had come to know of these transactions, 
and he thought Vanquis ought to have done more for him.
He also thought he should be fairly compensated for the poor service.
The matter was then passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and Vanquis have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
disputed transactions
Vanquis is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). 
Authorisation is a two-stage test which consists of authentication and consent.  And its 
Vanquis who must show Mr S authorised these payments rather than for Mr S to show 
that he did not.
From the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated  
that is the use of Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used.  So, I then need to decide if 
Vanquis has been able to show that he consented.  For the following reasons, I think 
he did consent:
- Mr S has not been consistent in his account of what happened here, and this 
leads me to conclude that he cannot be considered to a reliable or credible 
witness.  For instance, his account as to what alerted him to the transactions 
has changed, as has his account as to whether he kept a copy of his PIN.  Mr S 
initially told Vanquis he had stored his PIN on his phone and that his phone was 
password protected.  He told this service that the security number to open his 
phone was the same as his PIN and he had only discovered this when reporting 
the matter to the police;
- once Mr S reported the disputed transactions, no further attempts were made 
on his card.  I would expect a fraudster to have used up the balance on the 
account as soon as possible. I dont think what Mr S says in relation to friends 
or colleagues being made aware of the fraud and this causing the transactions 
to stop is a credible explanation;
- I think Mr Ss explanation of his friends being able to see his PIN from where he 
had left them in his car is highly unlikely.  Whilst I place little weight on the lack 
of explanation, If I discount Mr Ss account, there is no plausible explanation as 
to how Mr Ss PIN had been compromised;
customer service
I think Mr S raises a valid point in relation to delay but Im afraid I dont agree with his 
remaining points as to why the compensation for poor customer service levels ought to 
increase.
I accept Mr S wasnt update within five days of his call, but I dont accept that he didnt 
receive the fraud declaration form when it was first sent and Ive heard nothing in the calls 
between Mr S and Vanquis where Vanquis advised him not to report the matter to the police.
Ive thought about whether the offer of £75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I 
agree it is.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in relation to the disputed transactions.
I think the customer service levels fell below what we would expect and for this, I think the 
offer of £75 is fair and reasonable and is what Vanquis Bank Limited should pay Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman