DRN-3394917
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how long Santander UK Plc took to allow her access to a dormant 
account.
What happened
Mrs D says she re-discovered an old passbook for an account opened in 1999 with a 
building society later taken over by Santander. She says she updated the building society 
with her new address some years ago but didnt receive any correspondence about this 
account. Mrs D says she was unable to access her money and was given incorrect account 
details which meant there was a delay in transferring the money and account. She says the 
compensation offer doesnt go far enough and should be awarded £200.
Santander says it correctly made the account dormant but accepts there was a delay in 
allowing access and accepts it ought to have clarified the account details. It has paid £30 for 
each of the problems but says the account did receive interest and says Mrs Ds other 
account had the same previous address registered.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation award 
appropriate. The investigator thought Santander had correctly followed its dormancy 
procedure and didnt think Mrs D had suffered any financial loss. The investigator also 
thought Santander had received the account transfer request on 5 April 2021 and transferred 
the money by early May 2021. But that there was an issue with the account number.
Mrs D doesnt accept that view and says she tried to access her money from December 
2020 and the money could have been transferred far earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I accept Santander could have dealt 
with this complaint more appropriately but has paid what I think is an appropriate 
compensation amount. I appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that having looked at Mrs Ds account terms and conditions and Santanders 
dormancy policy that Santander correctly registering the account as dormant. Im also 
satisfied that this was done in order to protect Mrs Ds account security and I can see that 
Mrs Ds account continued to receive interest. So, I dont think Mrs D suffered any financial 
loss and I cant see any evidence on Santanders records about an earlier address change. I 
appreciate that may no longer be the main part of Mrs Ds complaint but make it clear that I 
find Santander acted appropriately when the account wasnt used.
The main part of Mrs Ds complaint is about the difficulties she had in accessing her money 
when she re-discovered the account passbook in December 2020. I accept there was delay 
by Santander and also accept that it ought to have clarified the account details. I have no 
doubt Mrs D was caused inconvenience in those circumstances and would have been 
frustrated by what ought to have been a simple request to access an account and transfer 
the money. But Im also satisfied that Santander has fairly apologised for those mistakes and 
paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation award in total of £60. I have made 
clear that I dont think Mrs D suffered any financial loss and think it inevitable there would 
have been some delay caused by a re-discovered passbook.
I have looked carefully at Santanders records and can see the account transfer took just 
under a month to conclude which I dont think was particularly excessive. And in any event, I 
have made clear that I think the total compensation award appropriate in circumstances 
where I dont think there was any actual financial loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman