DRN-3267645
The complaint
Miss W complains that she was mis-sold packaged bank accounts (PBAs) by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays) on four occasions in 1998,2002 and twice in 2004
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of my final decision:
What happened
Miss W says that she took out the PBAs on each occasion because she believed she had 
to in order to get an overdraft, but she didnt want them.
Barclays has agreed to redress Miss W for the sales in 2002 and early 2004. But it says 
that it didnt do anything wrong in the sales in 1998 and late 2004.
Miss W doesnt agree with this outcome and wants her account fees back for all four sales.
So, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as Barclays has accepted Miss Ws complaint about the sales in 2002 and early 
2004, and I can see no reason not to uphold her complaints on these sales, Ive 
concluded that mis-sale did occur on these two occasions, and my provisional redress is 
shown in the putting things right section below.
So, I will go on to consider the sales in 1998 and late 2004.
Additions Account sale in 1998.
Miss W says that she only took out the Additions Account (AA) in 1998 because she was 
told she had to in order to get an overdraft.
In my view Barclays was not required to provide a fee or interest free overdraft to its
customers. It was entitled to make a commercial decision to charge if a customer went 
overdrawn on a free account, and to put an alternative product in the marketplace such 
as an AA which offered benefits such as a fee and interest free overdraft buffer if it 
wanted to.
Miss W had a fee free account before this sale. And Barclays has provided evidence that 
she went overdrawn before the sale, and even more so afterwards. The terms of her fee 
free account required her to pay a £5 charge each time she went overdrawn. The AA 
provided a fee free buffer overdraft which Miss W went on to use regularly and had other 
benefits.
Miss W knew she could continue with her fee free account if she wanted to. But I can 
see why she might have been interested in the AA if she wanted an overdraft facility, as 
the monthly fee would potentially be covered by avoiding the overdraft charges on the 
free account.
Miss W could also have gone to another bank or financial services supplier if she didnt 
wish to take out the AA that Barclays was offering. And she couldve closed the AA at any 
time, but she didnt for several years.
So, taking all this into account, I dont think I can say that its more likely than not that 
Barclays made Miss W take a product she didnt want as I would need to if I were to 
uphold her complaint on this point.
First Additions Account sale in December 2004
Miss Ws complaint is that again she made to take the First Additions Account (FAA) to 
get an overdraft when she took it out in late 2004.
In my view, by this time, Miss W had received a lot of communication from Barclays about 
her PBAs and this was the fourth one shed had. So, I think its more likely than not that 
she knew what she was buying.
She continued to use her overdraft, so although the fee structure on Barclays fee free 
account had changed, there was still a saving to made through having the FAA. She 
also used the will writing service, and she says she had a mobile phone which wouldve 
been covered by the FAAs insurance benefits.
So, again, Im not able to say that I think its more likely than not that Miss W was 
pressurised or forced into taking out the FAA as I would need to if I were to uphold 
her complaint on this point.
Additional points
Barclays says that these were non-advised sales. Ive not seen any evidence that 
advice was given, and this service has seen evidence that Barclays sales at the time 
were generally non-advised. So, I think its more likely than not that they were non-
advised.
This means the requirement on Barclays was to provide enough information to Miss W so 
that she could make an informed decision about the PBAs. And I think it did in 1998 and 
late 2004. I say this because Miss W seems to have been aware of the benefits and the 
costs at these times.
So, in my view, I dont think its more likely than not than Barclays did anything wrong 
in 1998 or late 2004.
For completeness, Miss W has also raised a query about deductions from her account that
Page 2 of 
3Page 3 of 
3
were labelled Barclays Health. Barclays has explained that these were for an Accidental 
Death policy she had taken out. If Miss W is unhappy with these, she should complain first 
to Barclays about them and then if the matter is not resolved it can be brought to this 
service.
Putting things right
Im minded to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Miss W the amount Miss W paid each month for the PBAs she took out 
in August 2002 and June 2004.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid them until she gets 
them back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss W has saved money because of a better rate on her overdraft or any loan 
by having the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Miss 
W saved, it may deduct her savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it 
has calculated the two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to 
Miss W how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision, and while further explanation of their 
positions was offered, in my view no new evidence was provided, or new arguments made. 
So, my conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as shown in the putting things right 
section of my provisional decision above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partially uphold Miss Ws complaint and require that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC put things right as described in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman