DRN-2286034
The complaint
Mr L and Ms G complain Countrywide Principal Services Limited (trading as Countrywide 
Insurance Services) sent an insurance quotation to Mr Ls marital home where his ex-wife 
lived, and this caused a significant amount of distress.
What happened
Mr L and Ms G were in the process of buying a property. In August 2019 they completed a 
quote for home insurance. Mr L was going through a divorce, so he didnt want this quote 
sent to his marital home. Mr L and Ms G said they told Countrywide to send the post to Ms 
Gs address, but Countrywide sent the insurance quote to Mr Ls address instead and his ex-
wife opened his mail. 
Mr L and Ms G have said Countrywides error caused a significant amount of distress. Mr Ls 
ex-wife was unaware before this error that Mr L was in a relationship with Ms G and that they 
were buying a property together. Theyve said this has impacted Mr Ls divorce proceedings, 
his children and his health has suffered as a result. 
Countrywide acknowledged their mistake and offered £450 in compensation. Mr L and Ms G 
felt this wasnt enough.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said Mr L and Ms G told her when they saw a 
mortgage advisor, they specifically asked for the quote to be sent to Ms Gs address. She 
could see that the circumstances of Mr Ls ex-wife finding out through Countrywides error 
caused significant amount of upset to Mr L and Ms G. She said this had an impact on his 
children as well as his health. So she said Countrywide should pay Mr L and Ms G an 
additional £300, bringing the total award to £750.
Mr L and Ms G agreed with the offer of £750. However, Countrywide didnt agree. They said 
they couldnt be held responsible for Mr L not telling his ex-wife everything. They also said 
they thought the divorce proceedings would go to court as there was a marital home and 
children involved. Although our investigator explained why she thought Countrywide should 
offer a total of £750, Countrywide said they felt she hadnt explained her rationale.
Because Countrywide didnt agree with the investigator the case has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Countrywide sent the insurance quote to Mr Ls marital home. 
During the course of our investigation Countrywide couldnt provide a copy of this letter 
containing the quote but Mr L and Ms G have been able to provide this evidence to our 
service. 
I can see that this letter was addressed to Mr L and Ms G and was sent to Mr Ls marital 
home. Having read the letter, I can see it also includes the address to be insured. So not 
only did Mr Ls ex-wife find out about the property purchase and that he was buying with 
someone else, she also wouldve found out the property they were intending to purchase. So 
there was a lot of information here that Mr L and Ms G did not want Mr Ls ex-wife to see but 
she did because Countrywide incorrectly sent this to the wrong address. 
I can understand why Mr L and Ms G are deeply unhappy about this, not only is this a 
breach of their data, they also made it clear that the insurance quote was to be sent to a 
different address, and Countrywide dont dispute this error. Given the sensitive nature of the 
circumstances, this was highly important to them. 
Mr L and Ms G have said when they spoke to the advisor about the quote they were shown 
a screen with crosses next to the correspondence options of post and SMS and the only 
ones ticked were phone and email. They said they were provided with reassurance that 
Countrywide wouldnt send out anything in the post. So when it transpired Countrywide had 
sent this letter to the wrong address, I can only imagine how upsetting and frustrating this 
mustve been for Mr L and Ms G.
Mr L and Ms G have said prior to Countrywides letter Mr Ls ex wife was unaware Mr L was 
in a relationship and that he was buying a property with someone else. So I do think the way 
in which Mr Ls ex wife found out about this, would have caused a significant amount of 
upset. 
And I understand that this has also had an impact on Mr Ls children which has in turn added 
to Mr Ls upset. Mr L has explained that he wanted to explain things to his children with 
minimum impact. So I can understand why his children finding out in the way they did, would 
have caused additional stress as this opportunity was taken away from Mr L.
Ms G has said Mr Ls health has suffered considerably and that he had a stroke due to all of 
this stress, I am really sorry to hear about this. I think Countrywides error certainly 
compounded things and made this situation even more difficult than it already was. 
Mr L and Ms G have said prior to Countrywides error Mr Ls divorce was going to be settled 
out of court. But following this incident, the divorce was settled in court and Mr L has said 
this cost him more. Mr L and Ms G also said they were worried about losing the property 
they were purchasing. Theyve said Mr Ls ex wife froze the assets from the family home and 
put the sale on hold, saying shed need to rent which Mr L would have to cover. Mr L and Ms 
G were also concerned there would be further costs associated with this.
Our investigator asked for additional evidence of the costs Mr L and Ms G incurred, but this 
wasnt provided to us. However, I dont think I can ask Countrywide to cover these costs 
because Mr Ls ex-wife may have found out about the property purchase in the course of the 
divorce proceedings so she may have decided to take court action anyway and
Mr Ls ex-wife may have chosen or ended up in rented accommodation regardless of 
Countrywides error. 
Mr L and Ms G have also said they decided to sell their property because of everything that 
had happened and that theyve lost a lot of money including stamp duty and associated 
costs of selling. But I dont think Countrywides error solely led to them selling the property, 
although no doubt their error did make the situation worse. 
Countrywide have argued they shouldnt be held responsible for Mr L not telling his ex-wife 
that hed be leaving the martial home or that he was going to live with someone else. But 
Countrywide breached Mr L and Ms Gs data by sending information to the wrong address. And Mr L didnt want his ex-wife to know that he was purchasing a property or that he was 
purchasing a property with Ms G. And he and Ms G had done as much as they could to 
prevent something like this happening. Although Mr Ls ex wife and children may have found 
out at some stage, the way in which they found out would have been upsetting for everyone. 
And as Ive mentioned above Mr L wanted to explain things to his children with minimum 
impact. So I dont agree with this argument put forwards by Countrywide.
Countrywide has said that our investigator didnt explain her rationale as to why she felt 
£750 was fair and reasonable. But my decision outlines why I think Countrywide should 
increase their offer by another £300 so that they pay Mr L and Ms G £750 in total.
In summary, the mistake Countrywide made had a substantial impact to Mr L and Ms G. 
They did not want Mr Ls ex wife to know about the property purchase or that they were 
buying a property together. They said they did as much as they could to make sure that 
nothing would be sent to Mr Ls marital home and were provided with assurances this 
wouldnt happen. But a letter was sent to Mr Ls marital home despite this and the letter 
detailed Ms Gs name and the property they were purchasing. This affected Mr Ls divorce, 
his children and caused worry that their property purchase may fall through and that theyd 
incur additional costs. And this also had a profound impact on Mr Ls health. So taking 
everything into consideration I agree that Countrywide should increase their offer by another 
£300 so that they pay Mr L and Ms G £750 in total.  
Putting things right
As explained above Countrywide should increase their offer by another £300 so that they 
pay Mr L and Ms G £750 in total. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, Countrywide Principal Services Limited 
trading as Countrywide Insurance Services should increase their offer by another £300 so 
that they pay Mr L and Ms G £750 in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman