DRN-1965740
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the amount Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) has paid to settle a claim 
she brought under her motor insurance policy after her car was damaged. She is 
represented in bringing this complaint by her husband, Mr H.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs Hs car was accidentally damaged. So she brought a claim under her 
Zenith motor insurance policy. When Zenith had the car examined, it was noted that there 
was pre-existing rust present in the rear near-side wheel arch, which was in same area as 
would need to be repaired. The garage which was to repair the car said the rust was pretty 
set in, and was more than just surface rust.
Zenith said it couldnt repair the accident damage without also dealing with the rust. The 
result would be that the car would be in a better condition than if the accident hadnt 
happened, which would amount to betterment. So rather than repair the car, it would make 
a cash in lieu payment to Mrs H for the amount of repairing the accident damage alone. 
The garage would have charged Zenith £1,839.44, including VAT, to repair the accident 
damage. So Zenith said it would pay this amount, less the VAT, and less Mrs Hs policy 
excess of £100  that is a net amount of £1,432.87.
It said that once Mrs H had had the car repaired, she should send it a copy of the receipt for 
the repairs, and Zenith would then be happy to reimburse the VAT for the accident repairs 
up to the limit of its offer amount.
Zenith paid Mrs H compensation of £50 for not making it clear that it would deduct the VAT 
initially from the cash in lieu payment. Mrs H was still unhappy with the way Zenith had dealt 
with her claim and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said the 
insurance policy was intended to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if the 
damage hadnt taken place. If Zenith had repaired the rust as well as the accident damage, 
this would have cost more, and would have put Mrs H in a better position than she was in 
before the accident. 
In these circumstances, settling the claim by paying Mrs H a cash settlement of just the cost 
of repairing the accident damage wasnt unfair or unreasonable. Zenith was entitled to 
deduct the policy excess of £100 from this.
It was also standard industry practice to deduct the VAT from a cash settlement for repairs. 
Zenith hadnt initially made it clear it would do this, but had paid Mrs H compensation of £50 
for this, which the investigator thought was fair.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that:
it wasnt fair for Zenith to issue a cash settlement rather than repair the car, and
he thought the cash payment should have included the VAT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy, in the section Damage to your car does say:
We will either:
repair or replace your car; or
pay you an amount of cash.
So Zenith was entitled under the terms of the policy to pay an amount of cash rather than 
repairing the car. I accept that when the car was examined there was pre-existing damage in 
the form of rust, and on the evidence of the garage this was more than just surface rust as 
Mr H suggested. 
Under the policy terms, Zenith was only required to deal with the repair of the accident 
damage, not the repair of the pre-existing damage. So I find it acted reasonably in paying 
Mrs H the cost of repairing the accident damage only.
Zenith was entitled to deduct the policy excess of £100 from this. It was also entitled to 
deduct the VAT on this amount, as there was no certainty at that stage that Mrs H would 
incur that amount of VAT in repairing the car. However, Zenith confirmed to Mrs H:
Once you have had the repairs completed and if you have incurred VAT please forward on 
the receipts you have so that we may reimburse you the VAT up to the limit of our offer.
So I conclude that Zenith has treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably, and in accordance with 
the terms of her policy, and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Zenith 
Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman