DRN-4475666
Complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt reimburse her after she fell victim to a scam. 
She has brought this complaint with the help of a representative, but for simplicitys sake Ill 
refer only to Miss N throughout the decision.
Background
Miss N wanted to buy a car. She needed to arrange finance to purchase one. A friend of 
hers recommended a broker who would help her find a suitable care and arrange the 
associated finance. Unfortunately, that broker wasnt legitimate and turned out to be a 
fraudster.
He contacted Miss N and told her that hed found a suitable car. He told her the make, model 
and price. The price (£60,000) was broadly in line with what Miss N was expecting. She was 
shown photos of the car which were consistent with the description shed been given. The 
fraudster told Miss N that she needed to pay a deposit of £375 to reserve the car. She was 
then told that she needed to make a further payment of £5,700 to the same account. She 
was assured that shed be sent documentation relating to the finance in due course and that, 
once the finance company had sorted out the formalities, shed be free to collect her vehicle.
She waited several weeks, but there was no contact. She messaged the fraudster and 
requested a refund. This request was ignored. In January 2023, around two months after 
she thought shed made a deal to purchase the car, she told Metro Bank that she thought 
shed fallen victim to a scam. It looked into things, but it didnt agree to refund her. It said that 
Miss N hadnt carried out proper checks before agreeing to transfer her money. It also 
argued that it had displayed an effective warning during the payment process and that Miss 
N had ignored this.
The Investigator upheld Miss Ns complaint in part. The crux of her argument was that the 
second payment shouldve been identified as having a higher fraud risk associated with it. 
She thought that, before allowing it to be processed, Metro shouldve contacted Miss N and 
asked her about the circumstances of the payment to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud. If it had done so, she was persuaded that Miss N couldve been 
prevented from making the second payment.
However, the Investigator also thought that Miss N couldve done more to protect herself 
here. She thought that Miss N shouldnt have agreed to make payments relating to the car 
when she hadnt carried out any checks on the alleged seller, had only seen one photograph 
of the car and didnt carry out any checks on the car itself, for example to ensure that it had a 
valid MOT certificate and wasnt subject to finance.
She also thought Miss N shouldve been concerned that there was no proper explanation 
given as to why she needed to make the second payment. Shed already paid £375 in the 
belief that it was to reserve the car and so it wasnt clear why she then needed to make a 
payment of £5,700. For these reasons, the Investigator was persuaded that it was fair and 
reasonable for Metro to make a deduction of 50% from the compensation she recommended 
it pay Miss N. She recommended it pay Miss N £2,850 and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to that sum.
Miss N responded to say that she accepted the Investigators view. Metro Bank didnt 
respond. Because no agreement has been reached between the parties, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
 And that:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Metro Bank, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
its failure to reply to the Investigators opinion.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Metro be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
The Investigator concluded that the second payment was the point at which Metro ought to 
have intervened and I agree with that conclusion. It was significantly larger than other 
payments from the same account in the preceding months and was to a relatively new 
payee. The risk was sufficiently clear that it required more than the displaying of a warning 
during the payment process  I think an employee of the bank ought to have called Miss N to 
discuss the payment. If that had taken place, I think its more likely than not that shed have 
been persuaded to carry out further checks. These ultimately wouldve prevented her from 
making that second payment.
However, I also agree with the Investigator that its fair and reasonable that Miss N be 
considered partially liable for her losses here. I think she ought to have been more cautious 
in the circumstances and so Metro should be free to deduct 50% from the compensation 
due. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. If Miss N accepts my 
decision, Metro Bank PLC needs to pay her:- 50% of the second payment she made in connection with the scam
- 8% simple interest per annum on that sum calculated to run from the date the 
payment was made until the date any settlement is paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman