DRN-3766626
The complaint
Ms R complains Transunion International UK Limited have incorrect information on her credit
file.
What happened
In September 2021, Ms R says she received a copy of her credit report from a company,
who Ill refer to as C. C show a consumer their credit information which is directly provided
to them by Transunion.
Ms Rs credit report didnt show her as being on the electoral roll at her current address. Ms
R says she raised this with Transunion directly on 3 October 2021 and sent them a letter
from her local council confirming her residency at her current home address in 2020/2021.
Transunion first responded to Ms R on 10 December 2021, confirming that information is
supplied to them by other third parties such as local councils. So, they didnt uphold Ms Rs
complaint. Ms R responded and said she felt Transunion had ignored the information she
previously supplied from her local council. Transunion then responded on 29 December
2021 asking Ms R to provide evidence from her local council or the court confirming her
electoral roll information to another email address they have. Ms R responded the following
day and was clearly frustrated with Transunions request as shed sent Transunion a copy of
the letter from her local council before this request from them. Again, Ms R attached a copy
of the letter she received from her local council.
Ms R sent Transunion another email on 12 January 2022 explaining that despite sending a
copy of the letter from her local council, her dispute log with Transunion was showing that
they were waiting for Ms R to send correspondence  although, it didnt specify what
correspondence was needed.
On 20 January 2022, Transunion sent Ms R an email explaining that her dispute was
unsuccessful and again said that the information displayed on her credit report is provided to
them from various third parties, such as local councils. The email also set out that Ms Rs
dispute was likely unsuccessful for several reasons - one of them being that the supporting 
evidence they requested wasnt supplied to them. And it advised Ms R to contact them 
although the email doesnt specify in what format they wanted Ms R to contact them.
Ms R replied to Transunion on 20 January 2022 and reiterated her concerns. Transunion
responded on 7 February 2022 and said that after doing some investigation, they confirmed
Ms Rs electoral roll information had been changed and was showing as her current address
from December 2021 to date. They also explained they needed Ms R to provide an email or
a photocopy of a letter from her local council confirming her exact registration dates on the
electoral roll. And that once they received this, theyd update their database.
Ms R remained unhappy with this as she said it took them five months to correct this error.
Ms R also said Transunion didnt offer an explanation or an apology for her electoral roll
information not showing correctly on her credit file.
Ms R says while Transunion have since updated her electoral roll information to show her
current address, theyve shown the address as being effective from 1 December 2021  so
Ms Rs credit report says shes been on the electoral roll at her current address since this
date. However, Ms R says this is incorrect as shes been living at her current address since
February 2021. Transunion acknowledged that Ms R was registered at her current address
in February 2021, but they said they publish their register on 1 December 2021.
Ms R also added she was notified by C that two searches from third-party insurance
companies appeared on her credit file in March 2022. Ms R says she wasnt aware of these
two searches and so, she raised this with Transunion. Upon receiving a copy of her credit
file from C a week later, Ms R says she noticed the searches were removed. Ms R says
shed like to know why these searches have now been removed and why Transunion are
reporting incorrect information. Transunion say they raised both searches with the third
parties  one party didnt respond within the timeframe Transunion set, so Transunion were
able to delete the search. With the other search, the third party authorised Transunion to
remove the search from Ms Rs credit file.
Our Investigator looked into Ms Rs concerns. She said Ms R had provided Transunion with
information from her council in September 2021. However, Transunion didnt set up a query
until 27 December 2021 and they then subsequently closed the query a few days later
without reviewing the information Ms R sent them. Our Investigator also asked Transunion to
provide her with information to show what they received from Ms Rs council, but they didnt
provide this. Overall, our Investigator felt Ms R had suffered a lot of inconvenience in trying
to resolve this issue and there are still some unanswered questions which Transunion
havent provided the necessary information for. So, our Investigator recommended they pay
Ms R £200 compensation.
Transunion didnt respond. However, Ms R did and agreed with the £200 compensation.
In this same email, Ms R also provided information from her credit report created on 20 May
2022. Under the heading addresses it shows her being at her current and previous address
from 1 March 2021, which Ms R says is incorrect. Then, under the heading electoral roll it
still shows Ms R as being registered at her current address from 1 December 2021 which Ms
R has said is wrong as shes been at this address since February 2021. And that she
provided Transunion with information from her council confirming this. So, the complaint has
been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
Electoral roll information
It seems from what Ms R has told us that her electoral roll information was appearing
incorrectly and wasnt showing her current address. Ms Rs electoral roll information was
then updated, after a bit of back and forth between Ms R and Transunion, but the date of her
being recorded at this address is wrong. It shows December 2021 even though Ms R has
been residing at this address since February 2021.
I can see Ms R first contacted Transunion about her electoral roll information being incorrect
in October 2021 and in her email, she attached a letter from her local authority confirming
Ms R is on the register of electors for 2020/2021. But it doesnt provide any other information
such as the specific date Ms R is registered as being on the electoral roll at her current
address.
Transunion first responded to Ms Rs concerns on 10 December 2021. But this email didnt
explain to Ms R why the letter she provided from her local council confirming she was on the
register of electors for 2020/2021 wasnt sufficient evidence to update her electoral rollinformation on her credit file.
Transunions next email to Ms R was on 29 December 2021 where they said they needed
supporting evidence  such as confirmation from Ms Rs local authority or the court. In this
same email, Transunion ask Ms R to send it to another email address of theirs. However, Ms
R had already provided Transunion with the letter from her local council in October 2021. So
understandably, Ms R got frustrated. Ms R responded to this email explaining to Transunion
that this information had already been supplied, but I cant see Ms R sent it to the email
address Transunion specified in their email of 29 December 2021. Nonetheless, even
though Ms R didnt send the letter to the email address Transunion asked her to, I think its
fair to suggest Transunion had confirmation of Ms Rs current address for the electoral roll
when she first supplied them with the letter from her local council in October 2021. So, its
not clear from Transunions email of 29 December 2021, why this wasnt sufficient to update
Ms Rs electoral roll information to her current address in October 2021.
On 20 January 2022, Transunion say they closed Ms Rs dispute as she didnt provide them
with acceptable evidence within the timeframe they set out. But again, Transunion didnt
explain why the letter Ms R had sent them in October 2021 wasnt sufficient evidence to
update her electoral roll information for her current address.
Overall then, from looking at Transunions emails of 10 December 2021, 29 December 2021
and 20 January 2022, I dont think Transunion clearly explained to Ms R why the letter from
her local council that she provided when she first complained to them in October 2021
wasnt sufficient evidence to show she was residing at her current address. So
understandably, it was frustrating for Ms R to continuously be told she hadnt provided them
with the right evidence, when, at face value, she had because she wasnt being told why the
letter shed provided when she first complained to Transunion in October 2021 wasnt
sufficient evidence.
Transunion then sent Ms R a further email on 7 February 2022 confirming they needed
to see a letter from her local council confirming her exact registration dates. Ms R has
provided us with an email dated 24 February 2022 from her local council and this confirmed
Ms R was registered at her current address from February 2021. The email then goes on to
explain this change was included in the April 2021 updates to Transunion where it would
have shown Ms R being added to her current address and deleted from her previous
address. So, its not clear to me why Ms Rs electoral roll information wasnt updated to show
her current address when Ms Rs local council provided this information to them in April
2021. In addition to this, while Ms Rs electoral roll information now shows her current 
address, its not showing the correct dates  it shows her as being at her current address
from December 2021 to date. But Ms R has provided information showing she registered at
her current address from February 2021. So, I think its fair for Transunion to update the date
that Ms R has been at her current address for the electoral roll to February 2021.
Searches appearing on Ms Rs credit file
I note Ms R has some concerns with searches appearing on her credit file that she had no
knowledge of. It appears Transunion were able to remove two of the searches but there are
still many others that are appearing. I explained to Ms R that shell need to raise the other
searches shes disputing with Transunion as theyll need an opportunity to respond to these.
Ms R was happy with my explanation and explained that thankfully, these are soft searches
so, shouldnt have any detriment to her.
Linked addresses
Ms R also said theres an issue with the linked addresses section of her credit file  it showsher previous and current address as linked addresses to her which is correct, but the date
alongside both addresses is 1 March 2021. I queried this with Transunion and they
explained that this doesnt reflect the date Ms R lived at the addresses, but instead, was
when Ms R updated her credit file with other data sources  which could be institutes like
banks or financial businesses. Ms R says while she registered herself for electoral roll
purposes at her previous address, that she never changed her address for other purposes or
financial records.
In any case, as I explained to Ms R, Transunion cant determine what data sources updated
Ms Rs address links and they dont appear to be the party responsible for this information.
However, the date doesnt reflect the time Ms R has resided at each address, so I dont think
theres any detriment here.
Summary
In summary, I dont think Transunion clearly explained to Ms R why the original letter she
provided them with from her local council in October 2021 wasnt sufficient enough to update
her address details for the electoral roll purposes. Transunion also havent provided Ms R
with any information about why they were then able to change her address to her current
one.
Additionally, Ms R has spent a lot of time trying to resolve this issue and I can understand
the worry Ms R was caused when she saw her address for electoral roll purposes was
incorrect. So, I currently think Transunion should pay Ms R £200 compensation for the worry
and inconvenience caused.
Although Ms Rs address is correct for the electoral roll, the email Ms R provided to
Transunion from her local council on 24 February 2022 confirms shes lived at her current
address since February 2021. So, I currently think its fair for me to recommend Transunion
update the date for Ms Rs current address on the electoral roll to show February 2021 to
date instead of December 2021 to date.
Putting things right
Im minded to direct Transunion to:
Update Ms Rs electoral roll information to show as her being at her current address 
from February 2021 to date.
Pay Ms R £200 compensation.
Ms R responded and accepted my provisional decision. Transunion also accepted my 
provisional decision and explained they were arranging to update Ms Rs electoral roll 
information to show her being at her current address from February 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from this.
Putting things right
I require Transunion International UK Limited to:Update Ms Rs electoral roll information to show as her being at her current address 
from February 2021 to date.
Pay Ms R £200 compensation 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Transunion International 
UK Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman