DRN-3549411
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments made from their joint 
account that they do not recognise. 
What happened
On 7 October 2022, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. In it, I set out the 
background to the dispute and explained why I did not think the complaint should be upheld.
I said I was unable to fairly and reasonably say that TSB must repay any money to Mr and 
Mrs N. I didnt think the money sent was Mr and Mrs Ns to begin with. 
Mr N spoke to one of our Investigators about my provisional decision. He said:
Mrs N was befriended by someone on the internet who asked her to send money 
through the account, but this didnt go on for very long.
Mrs N could not have made these payments after April 2019 as she was in hospital 
and then went into a care home.
The fraudsters tried to put money into a cash ISA he used to have and then they tried 
to put money into Mrs Ns savings account. Then the whole amount was sent out to 
an international account. Mrs N does not know who the person that received the 
money was.
It is the bank that has been sending the money. 
He is still trying to catch up with his finances because direct debits have not been 
paid.
The Police have been involved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr N told our Investigator in response to my provisional 
decision. But it has not persuaded me to change my mind.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ns account statements. But I have been unable to identify any 
transactions made in connection to this scam after April 2019. 
We have previously been told by Mr Ns solicitor that this dispute is about the £17,000. 
There is no debate that this money was sent to an international account on 23 March 2018. 
But this money was not Mr and Mrs Ns to begin with. It was transferred to them by the 
fraudster on 21 March 2018. So it would not be fair to me to say that TSB should refund it. 
Mr and Mrs N did not have internet or telephone banking, so the only way large transfers 
could have been made was in the branch. From what I have seen in the banks notes, the 
branch staff knew both Mr and Mrs N well. The bank would have known that it was serving 
the genuine account holders. I am not persuaded that TSB has sent money without Mr and 
Mrs Ns knowledge and agreement. 
The bank contacted Police to try and help Mr N. In all the circumstances, I think this was 
appropriate action to take.   
Mr and Mrs N closed their TSB account in September 2021. Mr N will need to contact the 
new bank to discuss his recent direct debits.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman