DRN-4254498
The complaint
Ms O complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has unfairly declined a claim she made against 
her insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023 Ms O called Zurich to make a claim against the buildings and contents 
insurance shed with them. Ms O said shed water leaking from her roof and an outside 
cracked wall. She said the water coming from the roof had damaged the bedroom walls and 
ceiling and she needed to keep mopping up the water. She said the kitchen ceiling, wall and 
worktops had also been damaged. Ms O said shed first noticed the leak around the end of 
November and the first week of December 2022, but she couldnt find her insurance policy to 
report it. Ms O said there was now mould on the kitchen and bedroom ceilings and walls. 
Zurich declined her claim as they said there hadnt been an insurable event and that her 
policy didnt cover gradual damage. Ms O complained to Zurich.
Zurich said that there wasnt any evidence that the damage to Ms Os property was caused 
by a storm or any other insurable event. As Ms O said there was evidence of mould caused 
by the water leak, this showed the damage was caused gradually over time. But Zurich did 
apologise for the time taken to respond to Ms Os complaint and offered £100 to compensate 
her for this.
Ms O wasnt happy with Zurichs response she said they needed to send someone out to 
look at her property and what had happened. Ms O said she had to pay £500 to have her 
roof repaired, but she needed a further £5,000 to put right the damage that had been 
caused. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Zurich had applied their terms and conditions fairly and reasonably as 
an insured event hadnt happened.
Ms O didnt agree, she asked for an ombudsman to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Ms O, while I empathise with the position she 
finds herself in, for me to say Zurich must do something different I must first be satisfied they 
declined her claim unfairly I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be asking 
them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will 
be covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer 
must pay the claim unless theyre able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Ms O has shown that the damage was most likely 
caused by a one-off insured event. 
Ms O had buildings and contents cover with Zurich. There was the optional extras of Home 
Emergency cover and Family Legal Expenses but Ms O didnt have these included in her 
policy cover. 
Ms O said shed a leak of water coming from her roof and a cracked external wall. Ive 
considered the policy terms and conditions. Upon making a claim the policy wording says: 
For any claim that is made you will need to be able to prove or substantiate that an actual 
insured incident covered by this policy has occurred."
Section One  Buildings
This section covers a number of insured events I wont detail all 21 but they include such 
events as fire, smoke, explosion, lightning or earthquake, storm or flood and escape of 
water. Ive considered the policy terms under escape of water, which say:
"Escaping Water. Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or drainage 
installation, heating installation, washing machine, dishwasher, water bed. fish tank, 
refrigerator or deep-freeze cabinet. We will also reimburse costs you have to pay to find 
where the water is leaking from, including the cost of repairs to walls, floors or ceilings 
(Trace and Access cover)."
From Ms Os account the water was leaking through her roof and wall, not from any of the 
items listed above. So, the damage wasnt caused by this insurable peril.
Damage caused by a storm is an insurable event under Ms Os policy. The policy defines a 
storm as:
We consider storm to be a period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph); or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25rnm per hour: or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 crns) in 24 hours; or
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I consider three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was
caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a
storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes to be able to conclude that a storm claim 
was declined unfairly. Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim 
the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Zurich looked at the weather conditions around Ms Os address for the period 18 November 
to 24 November 2022, and at no point did the maximum gusts of wind exceed 31mph, so the 
weather conditions couldnt be defined as a storm.
While Ms O said she didnt know the precise date the water started to leak into her property,  
shed begun to notice it around the end of November and the beginning of December 2022. 
Ive looked at the weather reports for the last week of November 2022 and can see the 
maximum wind speed was recorded at 30mph. The average rainfall was well below 25mm 
and it hadnt snowed. For the first week of December 2022, the maximum wind speed 
reached in the week was 26mph. And the rainfall was well below 25mm and it hadnt 
snowed. So, I havent seen any evidence of a storm between the dates of 18 November to 9 
December 2022.
For Ms O to make a successful claim for storm damage to her property, she needs to show 
there was a storm at the time, and that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. 
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Ms O can show this. As the answer to the first 
question I needed to consider is no, I havent needed to consider the other parts of the test.
Section Two  Contents
Section two of Ms Os policy provides cover for contents  there are 33 insurable events 
listed. The ones that would apply to Ms Os situation are again storm or flood and escape of 
water. But the same conditions need to be met as those covered under her building 
insurance. So again, I cant see that Ms Os claim was a valid one as there wasnt an 
insurable event.
Ive considered whether there is any other relevant term within the policy wording. I can see 
Ms O has taken the optional cover for accidental damage. Accidental damage is defined in 
the policy as Unexpected and unintended damage caused by something sudden and 
external. I havent seen any evidence that would show the damage was caused by 
something that was sudden or unexpected. 
It was several weeks after she first noticed the water leak before Ms O reported it to Zurich. I 
understand Ms O said she couldnt find her policy paperwork. From the description given by 
Ms O when she called Zurich, the water leak had been happening for some time as mould 
had built up. The policy says:
Your policy does not cover claims arising from wear and tear, anything that happens 
gradually..
I know Ms O isnt happy that Zurich hasnt inspected her property to consider the repairs 
needed. But as outlined above its for Ms O to show she has a valid claim. As she hasnt 
been able to show that there has been an insured event, I cant say that Ms O had a valid 
claim. So, I dont consider Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve 
handled or in declining her claim.
Zurich has offered Ms O £100 to compensate for the time theyve taken to respond to her 
complaint. The complaint handling process isnt something I would consider, so its for Ms O 
to decide whether she accepts the offer made by Zurich.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman