DRN-3596642
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy because AWP P&C SA hasnt refunded the premium they paid 
for a single trip travel insurance policy. All reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
AWP (the policy). The policy was taken out to cover a cruise abroad which had been 
booked for 9 August 2020, for two weeks. Mr and Mrs H say they paid £288 for the policy.
Mr and Mrs H say that their trip was cancelled on around 3 June 2020 due to the global 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The cost of their holiday was covered by a third party. 
They would like AWP to refund them, in full, for the premium paid for the policy. AWP says 
that because they asked for the policy to be cancelled  and requested a refund of the 
premium  after the policys 14 days cancellation period, Mr and Mrs H arent entitled to a 
refund.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator explained that its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. Our 
investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in January 2020 and the 
policy wouldve covered various risks during that time.
However, our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. She said it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata 
refund of the premium from the date the holiday was cancelled. AWP didnt provide any 
substantive reply to our investigators findings. So, this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator has set out the relevant rules, regulations and law which 
are relevant to this complaint in her view dated February 2022, which Ive also taken into 
account.
Our investigator requested information from AWP to assist with her investigation, which 
wasnt received. However, in its email to Mr and Mrs H dated October 2020, AWP says that 
the policy contained a 14-day cooling off period. If Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel the policy 
during this time, but sought to cancel at a later date, no refund of the premium would be 
payable. I havent seen a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy. But that sort of term 
is common in single-trip travel insurance policy policies, so Im prepared to accept thats 
what the terms of the policy said.   
However, Im partially upholding this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by declining to pay any refund of the premium Mr 
and Mrs H paid for the policy. Ill explain why.
I accept that the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for AWP to offer a full 
refund, as Mr and Mrs H have requested.
As Ive outlined above, Im persuaded that its likely the contract of insurance says 
that where cancellation occurs more than 14 days after the start of the policy, no 
premium refund is due. But I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome 
in this case taking into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Although I havent seen the policy terms, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H were 
covered from January 2020 for a number of listed events insured under the policy. 
So, Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of the policy from then until the trip was cancelled 
in early June 2020. And AWP were covering the risk of a valid claim being made 
during that time.
However, after the date the trip was cancelled, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, AWP 
didnt bear any risk under Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy as the cost of trip was 
refunded by a third party. AWP was no longer carrying the risk of the trip being 
cancelled for any other insured reason  or for an insured event occurring whilst they 
were abroad. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP to pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata refund of the total premium they paid for the 
policy from the date on which the trip was cancelled.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and 
Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman