DRN-3060260
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc declined his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
  
What happened
In 2013 Mr J entered an arrangement with a company (Firm A) based abroad with regard 
to Timeshare services it provided. In July 2013 Mr J paid it £800 using his NatWest credit 
card. Mr J says he never got the services he paid for from Firm A. So after a period of time 
where he was trying to speak to Firm A he realised it was being uncooperative. So he spoke 
to NatWest in order to try and get his money back. 
NatWest considered this but said the money had been paid to Company B (not Firm A -the 
supplier of the service of Timeshare services) and that as such the required relationship 
between the parties set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 wasnt in place (often referred 
to as the DCS relationship). And accordingly NatWest said it wasnt liable for the £800 and 
so wasnt going to refund it to Mr J.
Mr J feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked 
into the matter and noted that the transaction was more complicated than previously thought. 
Through their investigations they identified that NatWest made the payment which then went 
to Company B which then passed it onto another Company (Company C) who took hold of 
the payment. It said it would then remit the funds to Firm A. Our Investigator concluded that 
as Company C took possession of the money this broke the DCS chain of relationships. 
Accordingly the Investigator said that NatWest hadnt treated Mr J unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision in favour of Mr J earlier this month. Both Mr J and NatWest 
accepted my decision. Neither party chose to make any comments whatsoever. Accordingly 
I see no reason to amend any part of my decision, and Mr Js complaint is successful. I set 
out my reasoning in full below as it is important to my mind that this services approach to 
these matters is understood more broadly.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
Here I must consider what NatWest should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. In this case, the 
relevant law is s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr J paid for goods or services on his credit card and there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (Firm A), NatWest can be held responsible.
I appreciate what Im about to say is similar to what Ive said in decisions previously. But I 
think these matters are complex and consistency in approach and rationale is important. 
Nevertheless I do appreciate some of the background to these issues Im about to explain 
may be familiar.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the creditor) and the cardholder (the debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the supplier under which the supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship is often referred to as DCS as it represents the 
interrelationships between Debtor, Creditor and Supplier.
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of s75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case).
The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which s75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Js case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of Company Bs role and involvement. And then what Company 
Cs role was and whether or not that meant that there were the relevant arrangements 
between NatWest and the supplier under which Mr Js purchase was financed, and therefore 
whether or not there was the DCS link. NatWest hasnt disputed Mr Js position that Firm A 
didnt provide the service agreed to. So I think establishing the situation with DCS here is 
paramount. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Js case. In order for s75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between NatWest and the supplier to finance transactions between 
NatWests cardholders and the supplier. Its clear that there was no direct arrangement 
between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of s75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers in the four-
party situation. She said that the use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of 
the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word
agreement. She went on to say at paragraph 26:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense of the word, there are clearly arrangements in
place made between the card issuers and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence of any
direct communication between them, or any direct contractual relationship, or even of
knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the particular supplier. The fact that
there are a number of different arrangements, reflecting the various roles, contractual or
otherwise, played by different participants in the network, does not mean that there is not an
arrangement in place between the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic to
look merely at the individual links in the chain; rather one should stand back and look at the
whole network of arrangements that are involved in the operation of the schemes. If one
does so, one can, in my judgment, properly conclude that, by virtue of the supplier and the
issuer being subject to the rules and settlement processes common to all participants in the
card network, there is indeed an arrangement (albeit indirect) between them.
In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given a narrower
meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal
agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range of
commercial structures having substantially the same effect. They held it was difficult to resist
the conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and suppliers
who agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Accordingly to arrive at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider the whole network 
of arrangements that were involved in Mr Js transaction and, in particular, what Company 
Bs and then Company Cs roles were within that network.
Ive considered Visas rules regarding the scheme it operates. I note from its rules from 2013 
it says that financial institutions, payment data processors, and other qualified business entities may participate in the its system by meeting the conditions outlined in the 
agreement. In my provisional decision I went on to describe part of its terms which in 
summary deal with the inter-relationships and obligations of those participating in its 
scheme. I have not quoted those terms here but both parties are aware of the specific terms 
I mean as they are quoted in my provisional decision. But in short it is clear from those terms 
that participants are responsible for all errors, acts and omissions of such third parties 
including their agents and vendors.
Does Company B break the DCS chain?
So our Investigator looked into Company B to try and get confirmation of its role in this 
transaction which included talking to Company C. Company B is now in liquidation, so our 
Investigator contacted the Liquidators of Company B who confirmed it did not have access 
Company Bs books and records, nor its historic financial data. It was therefore unable to 
provide any information in relation to this transaction or indeed any real detail of the services 
provided by Company B at all. It is of note that Companies House lists Company Bs nature 
of business as being Data processing, hosting and related activities. Ive also listened to 
the call between this service and Company C. In that call the Company C representative 
said in relation to this specific transaction that Company B was acting as its bank in this 
transaction. In essence it said Company B was merely processing the payment rather than 
being a party to the transaction, a gateway if you will. So although the evidence here is far 
from all encompassing, Im satisfied on balance of probabilities that the presence of 
Company B doesnt break the DCS relationship.
But does Company Cs presence break the DCS chain?
However I note that during that call with Company C the representative of Company C made 
clear she was talking about Mr Js transaction specifically as she, during the course of the 
call, asks for details about it and then says shes found it on her system. She also describes 
the service that Company C provides and how that it receives payments on behalf of its 
account holders (Firm A in this case). She also describes how it then holds such payments 
until it remits it to its account holders in due course. 
Ive considered Company Cs role here carefully. And I can see it provides different services 
to different parties. And in some cases (albeit according to its current website) it seems clear 
that it has and can act as a gateway (and in such a case it would appear that it wouldnt 
break the DCS chain). 
It is clear this transaction was a long time ago and evidence about it is scant. Company C 
stated it didnt have all the information it would have done at the time of the transaction. And 
NatWest couldnt provide more evidence about it either when asked to do a trace by this 
service. However I note that on Mr Js credit card statement it appears that Company C was 
the intended recipient of the transaction rather than Firm A. And Company C says it would 
have taken possession of the money and held it. On balance Im satisfied that Company C 
was more than a merely a gateway/processor of the payment and rather was providing a 
service where it held and managed this payment on behalf of Firm A. But is that enough to 
break the DCS chain?
As Ive stated already Im obliged to consider the law in making determinations that I think 
are fair and reasonable.
The High Court considered s75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). In this case the 
High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus between 
the supplier and creditor thats the relevant consideration. I do not propose to recount all the details of the case here. However I would note the following; the Truman case involved the 
court considering a five-party structure in which the fifth party, had no contractual or other 
direct relationship with the relevant scheme. But it was held that it did not matter that the 
card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship with the fifth party or that the card 
issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. There still existed arrangements 
sufficient for the requisite DCS link which were not too tenuous.
In Mr Js case, I think there are stronger indications of relevant arrangements than those in
the Truman case given that Company B and Company C were both independently, 
specifically and publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial transactions. 
After all, in the Truman case one of the connecting parties was a solicitors firm who had the 
facilities to enable the transaction. The solicitors acted for the car company in the Truman 
case and provided a variety of legal services to them. The solicitors were only part of the 
transaction chain in the Truman case because it had a machine to take the payment. Their 
primary commercial offering was legal services, it was not in the commercial enterprise 
providing financial transactional services. 
Here Company C is specifically a company providing a number of services specifically in 
relation to financial transactional activities on behalf of its clients. The transactional services 
provided by Company C here are those that Firm A had in essence outsourced to it. And 
clearly the network (Visa) had arrangements with Company C and NatWest would be able to 
know of Company C and its offering prior to the transaction in this case by dint of both being 
users of the Visa network.
I would also note that both NatWest and Firm A undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of Company C and Company 
B, in a way that makes it possible to regard them as in something akin to a joint venture. 
Specifically, by financing purchases from the supplier NatWest are able to lend money to 
their customer and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the supplier 
(Firm A) is able to obtain payments from NatWests credit card holders and so benefit from 
the credit NatWest extended (albeit indirectly).
I note that in the paperwork Mr J received from Firm A it described that its name would 
appear on Mr Js credit card statement as the billing descriptor. And it is clear that this was 
the paperwork that was used by Firm A in its in-person meeting with Mr J. So it would seem 
likely that it was an up to date description of the intended transaction. So it is unclear why 
the transaction appears differently (mentioning both Company B and Company C). However 
considering the timing of the transaction and what Mr J has told us it seems unlikely to have 
been an E-money type of service provided here by Company C (which could break the DCS 
chain). It seems more likely that Company C provided more back office type services on 
behalf of Firm A than the straight through type service Company B provided.
Company C has said that it can hold money on behalf of its clients (Firm A) and that Firm A 
was the final recipient of this transaction amount. But Im not persuaded on balance that this 
is enough to break the chain. And I think it fair that if businesses such as Natwest are going 
to argue that the DCS chain is broken it should provide evidence to support this in its 
submissions from the outset. But NatWest hasnt provided evidence to support its 
submission here-even when this service has asked more about the transaction (albeit after 
the event). 
Mr J has felt for some time that NatWest shouldnt get out of being liable here just because 
of the presence of other parties in the chain. Which echoes the position of the court cases 
that Ive mentioned. And, after all, the intention of the originating legislation (the Consumer 
Credit Act) was to provide consumer protection in certain circumstances rather than to 
protect creditors. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Company C didnt pay Firm A the amount Mr J agreed to or that it was held for an unreasonably long time or was split up, 
aggregated with other payments or went through any form of exchange mechanism (whether 
currency or E-money). On balance I think the money went from Mr J to Firm A as intended, 
as per the arrangements in place without sufficient change to alter the nexus of the 
relationship between the supplier (Firm A) and the creditor (NatWest).
In short, and on balance Im satisfied that Company C operated at the time a formal and 
structured system which enabled parties, such as Firm A in this case, to receive payments 
made by credit card to pay for the supply of goods and services to the cardholders such as 
Mr J. Further, both NatWest and Company C were bound to the same network rules through 
the arrangements here and therefore subject to the rules and settlement processes of the 
network (albeit indirectly). These features are all consistent with the existence of the required 
arrangements, for the purposes of s75, between NatWest and Firm A.
NatWest could have argued that although Company C could be known to it, Firm A is not. 
But I dont think this makes a difference. Clearly both Firm A and NatWest benefit 
commercially from the arrangements in place here through though the intermediations of 
Company B and Company C. And the law doesnt require them to be known to one another. 
And considering they both benefit from the arrangement in place here and such 
intermediations and such transactional services are provided to facilitate such mutually 
beneficial arrangements I think whether or not they are known to one another beforehand 
doesnt make a difference.
Taking this into account, and looking at the principles outlined in the OFT case and what we 
know of the situation here, it seems to me that NatWest provided finance to Mr J which
enabled him, through the mediums of Company B and Company C, to pay for services from 
Firm A. The purpose of the credit agreement between NatWest and Mr J is to give him the 
means to pay for goods and services, which is what he did when he agreed to pay Firm A for 
its services. So, following the reasoning in the OFT case, NatWest financed that transaction
by making credit available to Mr J at the point of purchase in accordance with his credit
agreement.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that the services that either Company B or Company 
C provided here were sufficient to break the DCS chain. It is clear from the court cases Ive 
described the mere presence of another party in the chain is insufficient to break the chain. 
There has to be more than this to break the chain, for example an e-money transaction 
within the transaction or something that makes the linkage too tenuous. 
And just because NatWest say either Companys presence breaks the chain doesnt make it 
so. And NatWest hasnt been able to demonstrate through evidence from the transaction 
that the service either provided broke the chain or that the arrangements in this situation 
were too tenuous. And on balance I dont consider the arrangements to be more tenuous 
than those examined by the court in the Truman case, but rather the opposite due to the 
nature of the services provided by Company B and Company C as described. 
Neither Mr J nor NatWest has sought to comment on my rationale here. So I find that the 
DCS chain is not broken here and Mr J can make a claim to NatWest under s75 in relation to 
the £800 payment made for services to be provided by Firm A. 
Further issues including liability
Another requirement under s75 is that the cash price needs to be within certain financial 
limits. Mr J paid £800 here to Firm A. And that falls within the financial limits. So I dont think 
there is any issue on that aspect of this claim.From the evidence Ive seen relating to the payment it is clear that the card transaction was 
ultimately destined for and received by Firm A. It is also clear that the service Mr J bought 
was that of getting him out of his timeshare arrangement. But Firm A didnt provide this 
service, indeed it didnt provide any service to Mr J. (However Mr J did manage to extricate 
himself from the timeshare arrangement by separately agreeing terms with the timeshare 
company he had a relationship with).
It is also clear from what Mr J has said that representations were made to him about this 
service provided by Firm A which he relied on to his detriment in entering the agreement. 
Similarly there is a breach in relation to the issue of the processing fee (which is what he 
paid) being fully refundable if Firm A didnt take the matter forward (as is described in the 
terms and conditions). So considering what we know here I think on balance that Mr J was 
misrepresented to by Firm A and the contract was breached. And under s75 and for the 
reasons Ive described I think Mr J can make a valid claim against NatWest for the £800 he 
paid for the services he wouldnt have paid for unless hed been misrepresented to.
Since my provisional position outlined about NatWest has chosen not to dispute my rationale 
on these issues either. Accordingly my position on the liability issue stands. And thus 
NatWest should put things right.
  
Putting things right
For all of these reasons, I think that a fair and reasonable outcome is for Mr J to be refunded 
the payments of £800. I think that NatWest should also pay Mr J 8% annual simple interest 
on this amount. The calculation should be from the earliest opportunity that NatWest had to 
refund
Mr J  namely the date at which Mr J provided all necessary supporting information to
support his claim to it. 
For all of these reasons, my final decision is that there were arrangements
between NatWest and Firm A under which NatWest financed this transaction between
Mr J and Firm A. I think this transaction meets the financial requirements under the Act. And 
DCS is intact and s75 applies. And as Im persuaded on balance Mr J was misrepresented 
to by Firm A and the contract was breached and under the Act NatWest can be held 
responsible, I think it fair that NatWest pay Mr J £800 plus interest as Ive described.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc and direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman