DRN-4308785
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Clifton Asset Management Plc to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M consulted with Clifton in November 2011 as he was considering the option of using his 
existing pension funds to raise cash for his business. He met with one of Cliftons advisers 
and it completed a corporate fact-find to gather information about the business and Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. It noted the following: 
Mr M was aged 36, married with two dependent children. 
He was a director of his own business and drew an annual salary of £40,000. 
Mr Ms wife was employed with an annual salary of just over £17,000.
Mr Ms only pension provision (aside from his state pension) was a defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme of which he was a deferred member.
The corporate objectives were noted as being fund expansion plans for the business, 
easing the companys position with creditors and maintaining the companys financial 
and operational independence. 
He wanted to raise £28,000 for the company to pay towards its PAYE and VAT 
creditors. 
Mr M felt his comfort in retirement was linked to the success of his business. There 
was equity within the businesss property. 
Mr Ms combined business and personal mortgage exposure was £1.31m and he 
also had £18,000 of credit card debt and an outstanding personal loan of £12,000. 
Mr and Mrs M aimed to retire in their sixties but precisely when was dependent on 
how their business developed over time. 
Clifton also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk which it deemed to be 
moderate. 
After a few meetings with an adviser, Clifton produced a pension transfer report (TVAS) on 
16 November 2011 and a suitability report on 24 November 2011. In summary, the suitability 
report said that Mr Ms objective was to release funds of £28,000 from his pension via a 
SIPP to assist his business with a short-term cash flow issue it had. He then intended to 
release the funds to the business to purchase intellectual property. The intellectual property 
would then be leased back to the company on commercial terms and the funds used to pay 
towards PAYE and VAT creditors in so doing preventing any further action being taken by 
HMRC against the business. The suitability report also stated that Mr M was aware of the 
benefits offered by his DB scheme but placed little importance on them in comparison to the 
benefits the cash would provide to his business. 
Clifton noted that it had been agreed that Mr Ms objectives could be achieved by 
establishing a SIPP and transferring his existing DB scheme pension into it. Notwithstanding 
this however, Clifton concluded that the transfer of the DB scheme was not in Mr Ms best 
interests on account of the high annual investment return (known also as the critical yield) 
his pension fund would need to attain in order to match the benefits he was giving up. It 
asked Mr M to confirm in writing that he had read and understood the report and it also 
asked him if he would confirm whether he did or didnt want to proceed with the transfer. 
Mr M confirmed that he wanted to on 6 December 2011. 
In January 2012, Mr Ms aims and objectives had changed significantly and a telephone call 
took place between him and an adviser from Clifton. This was followed by an email from 
Clifton to Mr M to say that it had indicated to him that the transfer of his DB scheme should, 
if possible, be halted. The email went on to say that because Mr M may wish to inject funds 
into a new company in the near future he had decided to continue with the transfer.
Clifton then issued Mr M with a further suitability report on 8 February 2012 in which it noted 
that Mr Ms plans had changed and that he had decided to pull out of the business for 
personal reasons. It went on to state that Mr M had decided to proceed with the transfer of 
his DB scheme anyway because he thought he might wish to use the funds in the future for 
a self-investment business transaction. Clifton advised Mr M to transfer his DB scheme to a 
SIPP to be left in an account for him to use for any future purchase of intellectual property he 
may want. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms DB scheme - £25,643.42  was 
transferred to a SIPP in 2012. Clifton charged Mr M £6,000 for the advice and the transfer 
along with an annual management service fee of 1% + VAT of the scheme assets. In 
addition there were costs associated with the SIPP.  
Mr M met with Clifton again in May 2015 by which time he was aged 39. Clifton issued a 
further suitability report in July 2015 in which it noted that Mr M didnt require the SIPP for 
any business funding and wished to transfer it to a more suitable arrangement. The SIPP 
was valued at £16,655.42 and still invested in a cash fund. Clifton recommended that the 
SIPP was transferred to a global equity portfolio managed by a discretionary fund manager. 
The SIPP was transferred a couple of weeks later. 
In August 2022 Mr M, through his representative, complained to Clifton. Specifically he 
complained that:
the insistent client process had not been correctly followed by Clifton;
the advice he received to transfer his DB scheme wasnt suitable in the 
circumstances;
the investment choice was inappropriate for someone with his attitude to risk;
had he left his DB scheme where it was it would now have a cash equivalent transfer 
value of £256,450.31;
Clifton had provided him with negligent advice, as a result of which he had suffered a 
financial loss. 
Clifton looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
made it clear to Mr M at the time of the advice that there was a high probability he would be 
worse off in retirement if he transferred, however, he had ignored its advice and insisted on 
transferring anyway. It said that when Mr Ms aims and objectives changed in January 2012 
it had asked him to reconsider the merits of the transfer but that he remained committed to it. 
And Clifton said that it had made repeated attempts to engage with Mr M in the years that 
followed the transfer, advising him in the process that he should consider investing the cash 
he held in his SIPP. It said this eventually took place in 2015 since when the fund had 
performed well.Clifton also said that at the point it met again with Mr M in 2015 he raised no concerns about 
the suitability of the advice hed received in 2011/2012. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Cliftons investigation into his complaint Mr M complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint and thought 
that there were failings in Cliftons insistent client process such that Mr M was provided with 
insufficient information to make an informed decision about the transfer. Our Investigator 
also thought Cliftons recommendation in 2012 superseded the one it had made in 2011 
because Mr Ms circumstances and objectives had changed. So our Investigator thought that 
the second recommendation should be treated as being separate from the first. 
Our Investigator then went on to consider whether Cliftons 2012 recommendation was 
suitable and she concluded that it wasnt. She thought that the transfer wasnt financially 
viable and that there were no other sufficiently compelling reasons to justify the loss of the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme. Our Investigator recommended that Clifton 
compensate Mr M in line with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) 
guidance for redress for non-compliant pension transfers. Our Investigator also thought 
Clifton should pay Mr M compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
Mr M accepted our Investigators recommendations but Clifton didnt. It said that it was 
satisfied that Mr M was an insistent client. Clifton said it had only proceeded to arrange the 
transfer (after the first suitability report) after receiving Mr Ms email (dated 6 December 
2011) in which he confirmed he wanted to proceed as an insistent client. And Clifton said 
that the second suitability report was only issued once both Mr M and Clifton had determined 
he was acting as an insistent client.  
Clifton said that the appropriate risk warnings were given in the first suitability report and 
Mr Ms decision to transfer was made subsequent to their receipt. Clifton said Mr M was fully 
aware of its opinion on the merits of the transfer but expressed his firm view to proceed 
regardless. Clifton said that in 2012, advisers were permitted to proceed with transfers on an 
insistent client basis. So Clifton said it rejected our Investigators view that the second 
suitability report should be considered in isolation. It said the two reports were intrinsically 
linked and the second report was written on from the standpoint that Mr M was proceeding 
with the transfer on an insistent client basis. 
Our Investigator thought about what Clifton had said but wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She said that the second suitability report had been written after Mr Ms circumstances 
had changed but the insistent client process hadnt been followed after Clifton gave its 
revised advice. Our Investigator also said that even so, she also remain unsatisfied that in 
2011 Mr M knew and understood the risks associated with giving up his DB scheme. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Cliftons actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Clifton should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Was Mr M an insistent client?
Before I consider the overall suitability of the advice given by Clifton to Mr M Ill consider 
whether or not he was an insistent client. Although there was no definition of an insistent 
client in COBS at the time, the general understanding of what was meant by one was a 
consumer that wished to take a different course of action from that being recommended by 
his or her adviser, and who wanted the business to facilitate the transaction against its own 
advice. A key aspect in this case is Cliftons categorisation of Mr M as an insistent client. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required Clifton to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Clifton to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Cliftons recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr M had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
Clifton says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ms best interests. It says too 
that it followed the correct insistent client process, although as Ive set out above, there was 
no prescribed process to follow at that time. Mr M says Cliftons advice was negligent and 
hes suffered a loss as a result.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think the change in Mr Ms 
objectives and circumstances over the Christmas and New Year period of 2011/2012, the 
issuing of a second suitability report and a new recommendation being made to Mr M were 
all significant enough departures from the 2011 recommendation as to be classed as a separate recommendation, unlinked to the first. I think the fact it issued a second suitability 
report taking those new circumstances and objectives into account meant that Clifton likely 
thought so too. Significantly, however, I dont think that the second suitability report made it 
clear that Cliftons advice was that Mr M should not transfer his DB scheme and that him 
proceeding to do so was against its advice. 
Clifton says the second suitability report should not be considered in isolation. It said the two 
reports were intrinsically linked and the second report was written from the standpoint that 
Mr M was proceeding with the transfer on an insistent client basis. I dont agree. 
Mr Ms objectives had completely changed and his new objective was to transfer his DB 
scheme because he had plans for another business he owned for which he may wish to 
utilise his pension funds at some future point. What Mr Ms other business was is 
undocumented as is the nature of, and amount needed for, any perceived future transaction. 
Mr Ms new, 2012 objective was not, in my view, fully formed and was couched in terms of 
being a possibility only. And the second report went on to say that other capital-raising 
options were discussed but dismissed as unsuitable because Mr M didnt have adequate 
assets to provide security for other forms of lending. Yet no reason is identified in the report 
for why capital-raising lending was required. Thus, without any context the options for raising 
capital Clifton said it considered and dismissed are, in my view, meaningless. However, 
despite the lack of reasoning and context, and having dismissed other capital raising 
options, Clifton went on in the report to conclude that, We subsequently agreed that 
pension-led funding was your preferred route. 
The second report then continues with Cliftons recommendation that, We agreed that from 
your original objectives, these would have been best achieved via a new Self-Invested 
Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) administered by [M]Due to the change in 
circumstancesWe agreed that these funds will just sit in your individual SIPP account 
currently, however we agreed that the pension scheme may be utilized to purchase 
intellectual property owned by one of your companies in the future.
The second report didnt state that Clifton wasnt recommending the transfer. Nor did the 
report contain a risk warning (such as in the first report) that there was a high probability that 
Mr M would be worse off in retirement as a result of the transfer and would lose his valuable 
dependents benefits. Clifton says that this because Mr M was already being treated as an 
insistent client following on from the first report. 
I cant agree that the insistent client process Clifton followed after the first report effectively 
carried forward and was capable of being applied to the second report. Thats because 
Mr Ms objective, and the very reason he needed to access the money in his pension, had 
completely changed. Despite it doing so however, I cant see that Clifton assessed the 
suitability of the transfer against Mr Ms new objective or analysed Mr Ms new objective at 
all. And in any event, if Clifton was treating Mr M as an insistent client, I think it needed to 
explicitly say in the second suitability report that it did not recommend that Mr M proceed 
with the transfer and that doing so would be against its advice. To my mind, given the way 
the report was written, I think Mr M wouldve believed that Clifton was recommending he 
proceed with the transfer as it agreed with his course of action.
So, I dont think Clifton was treating Mr M honestly and fairly in this respect nor do I think it 
was providing him with information that was clear, fair and not misleading such that he could 
make an informed decision. The recommendation Clifton made for Mr Ms funds was for 
them to sit on cash deposit in an individual SIPP account until he may need them at some 
future point. Mr M went along with the advice Clifton gave in this respect so there was no 
need in reality to run the insistent client process after this report. Thats because Clifton wasnt advising Mr M not to proceed nor was he required to go against that advice. On the 
contrary, it appears to me that Clifton recommended Mr M transfer his DB scheme. 
So, I cant reasonably agree that an insistent client process that followed a recommendation 
not to transfer which in turn was based on entirely different circumstances should be 
assumed to apply (or carry across) once those circumstances, objectives and the 
subsequent recommendation changed. 
For these reasons it follows that I think the second report is separate from the first. It follows 
that I cant agree with Clifton that the two reports are intrinsically linked or that the second 
report was written on the understanding that Mr M was proceeding on an insistent client 
basis. 
As Mr M proceeded with his DB transfer after the second suitability report I dont need to 
consider here whether or not Clifton followed a fair insistent client process after it issued its 
first suitability report. Thats because I think its fair to treat the second suitability report as 
Clifton having advised Mr M to proceed with the transfer of his DB scheme. So, Ive 
considered the suitability of the advice given in February 2012 as thats the basis on which 
the transfer proceeded. I appreciate that Mr M had given the go ahead for the transfer before 
the new year in 2012 and that Clifton has set the transfer in motion as a result. I also 
appreciate that there were discussions between Mr M and Clifton in the early part of 2012 
where Clifton advised Mr M to halt the transfer yet he instructed Clifton that he wished to 
continue with it. 
It appears to me that the second suitability report post-dated Mr Ms instruction to continue 
with the transfer, however, by allowing that to happen, Clifton wasnt acting in Mr Ms best 
interests. Clifton ought to have reconsidered Mr Ms circumstances and objectives and 
issued a new suitability report that clearly set out its recommendation. Only then would Mr M 
have been able to make an informed decision and only then should the transfer have been 
processed (had he decided to proceed).
Financial viability 
Clifton carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). At the time of the advice Mr M was 36 years 
old and had no fixed age at which he wished to retire. His DB schemes normal retirement 
date (NRD) was Mr Ms 55th birthday.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The critical yield (annual investment return) required to match Mr Ms scheme benefits at 
age 60 was 9.4% if he took a full pension and 9% if he took tax-free cash (TFC) and a 
reduced pension. I think its reasonable to assume that Mr M would have taken the tax-free 
cash at retirement given that it is a generally tax efficient way of drawing down a personal 
pension. The critical yield of 9% required to match the DB scheme benefits at a retirement 
age of 60 compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per year for 23 years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulators upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the 
middle projection rate was 7% and the lower projection rate was 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr M 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
9%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And that 
appears to be the conclusion Clifton reached in its first suitability report. However, there is no 
mention of this in the second suitability report and I think Clifton needed to make it clear to 
Mr M that transferring his DB pension would mean he was likely to be worse of in retirement.
It is also worth mentioning that the DB schemes normal retirement date (NRD) was Mr Ms 
55th birthday. I can however see that the TVAS Clifton prepared assumed that Mr Ms NRD 
was his 60th birthday. Had Clifton used the schemes actual NRD of age 55 in the TVAS then 
it is likely the critical yield would have been even higher than 9% owing to the fact the funds 
would be invested for less time. 
Ive thought too about Mr Ms capacity for loss. His DB scheme was his only pension 
provision at the time so the security of the guaranteed benefits offered by his DB scheme 
would have been very important to him. The scheme offered valuable benefits with virtually 
no risk and Mr M was highly reliant on it for his retirement. I note that there were no savings 
or investments noted for Mr M but that he had a third share in his property (Mrs M and 
Mr Ms father owning a third share each) valued at £315,000 and which appears to have 
been mortgage free. Mr M also had a 50% share (the other 50% belonging to his father) in 
the family business valued (including capital assets) at £2.5m. However, I can see too that 
there was a joint mortgage on the business of £1.31m. So it seems to me that Mr Ms capital 
assets equated to about £700,000.
Whilst Mr M had some capital assets however, these werent liquid and indeed were largely 
tied up in his business. Even if I were to agree that Mr M did have some capacity for loss 
because of his capital assets, the fact he did doesnt make an unsuitable transfer suitable. I 
say this because the DB scheme was Mr Ms only pension provision aside from any state 
pension entitlement. It was a risk-free scheme and Mr M was highly reliant on it for his 
retirement. Mr Ms retirement was 25+ years away so it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of his DB scheme. 
Im also mindful that Mr Ms circumstances changed drastically between the first suitability 
report and the second. Mr M had pulled out of the business, so this wouldve had an impact 
on his assets and most likely decreased his capacity for loss.
I note too that Mr Ms scheme was a member of the Public Sector Transfer Club so had he 
at some future point recommenced employment and his new employer ran a scheme that 
was also a member of the club then he would be able to join it and transfer in his former 
scheme on favourable terms. By transferring his DB scheme however, Mr M lost this option. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed 
benefits when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. Had he reason to 
transfer his scheme at a later date he could have done so closer to retirement. And whilst 
Mr M may well have believed his business would derive a greater benefit than any benefit he 
would receive from his DB pension, I dont think this meant he had the capacity to bear the 
loss of his DB scheme. And I think that Clifton should have made that clear to Mr M when it 
gave the advice in February 2012.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Other compelling reasons for transferring
I dont disagree that Mr M approached Clifton in 2011 with the view to transferring his DB 
scheme to alleviate some short-term credit issues his business was experiencing. However, 
ultimately it seems to me that Mr M had only one reason to proceed with the transfer of his 
DB scheme when Clifton gave its second set of advice, which was because he thought he 
might wish to use the funds in the future for a self-investment business transaction. But any 
specific objectives expressed by Mr M didnt displace the need for Clifton to provide him with 
suitable advice and to challenge any preconceived intentions or ideas he may have. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr M had any prior knowledge or experience of making decisions of 
this sort so he couldnt know if his intended actions were in his best interests. 
So it seems to me that Mr Ms objective for transferring in the early part of 2012 was 
essentially non-existent; that there was, in fact, no reason to do so. There certainly exists no 
information about what business Mr M may wish to use the fund towards in the future and 
how he might go about accessing his pension funds, given he was so far from the minimum 
retirement age at the time. Had Mr M genuinely required funds in the future for a business 
venture then the transfer of his DB scheme could have been considered at that point. And it 
could have been considered against Mr Ms situation as it stood at some future point intime 
taking any contemporaneous circumstances into account. Thus it seems to me that the 
transfer in 2012 was premature and un-necessary. And I think that once Mr Ms objective 
changed, Clifton should have explained to Mr M again why the transfer was unsuitable, not 
in his best interests and recommended that he didnt proceed.
It follows that Ive seen no compelling reason why the transfer of Mr Ms DB scheme was in 
his best interests, or outweighed the loss of his guaranteed retirement benefits, particularly 
given the DB scheme was Mr Ms only pension provision. 
Use of DFM 
Whilst this is a complaint about the advice given by Clifton in 2011/2012 I note that in 2015 it 
recommended that Mr M use a DFM to manage his pension funds and that prior to this his 
funds werent invested at all. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer 
out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr M should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to 
manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.Summary
Clifton wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests. It also needed to adapt its advice to the change in Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just because he may, at some point in the future, want to invest in a business. 
So, I think Clifton shouldve clearly advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
I have considered whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Cliftons advice in 
2012 had it advised him against doing so. Clifton argues that Mr would have done so given 
that he had done so once already. In fact, as Ive set out above, Clifton argues that Mr M did 
proceed as an insistent client after its second recommendation. But, as Ive also said above, 
I think the second suitability report contained a positive recommendation that Mr M should 
transfer. So it is this recommendation that I need to consider whether Mr M would have 
insisted on going ahead anyway had Cliftons advice been the opposite.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Cliftons advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor with a moderate attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Ms retirement provision. So, if Clifton had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, 
I think he wouldve accepted that advice. Ive set out in detail above why the reason Mr M 
wanted to transfer wasnt compelling or urgent. I think Clifton should have taken the time to 
explain that it hadnt recommended a transfer based on Mr Ms original objectives but, given 
these had since fallen away, and that his new objective was entirely unformed, the transfer 
was even less suitable than it had been originally. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about possibly needing funds in the future were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If Clifton had explained that Mr Ms unquantified and vague objective wasnt 
worth risking his guaranteed pension for, and that he should instead revisit the possible 
transfer of his benefits in the future when his plans were more concrete, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Clifton should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I think that Mr M has been caused some trouble and upset as a result of the concerns he 
has about his pension and the loss he may have sustained. I think that Clifton should pay 
Mr M compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice has caused him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Clifton must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 55, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Clifton should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Cliftons offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Clifton may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Clifton should also pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice has caused 
him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Clifton Asset 
Management Plc to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Clifton Asset Management Plc pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Clifton Asset 
Management Plc.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman