DRN-3590173
The complaint
Mr O makes a number of complaints about Santander UK Plc following fraud blocks being 
applied to his account.
What happened
Mr O says Santander has applied fraud blocks to some of his transactions which has 
happened more often than it should and has affected on occasions low value purchases 
such as in a coffee shop. He says on 10 September 2021 he bought a train ticket for £196 
from a company I will call E which was later held for fraud checks. And accepts that initially 
he told Santander that he didnt recognise the transaction. Mr O says he later told Santander 
he did recognise it, but it was again declined and told it to cancel the transaction. He 
questions why that transaction and others were held but not two payments abroad for £500 
each. Mr O says his complaint wasnt accepted initially and that he didnt receive a promised 
response within three days. He would like compensation for the time and calls he made and 
for the £196 to be refunded as it was paid to E some days after the initial transaction.
Santander says it sent a response to Mr O as promised on 13 September 2021 and told him 
on a telephone call that response would be sent digitally. It says it has investigated the 
transaction blocks and says they were held due to fraud reasons. Santander says E 
presented the transaction again and Mr O will need to contact it about the payment. It says it 
correctly told Mr O that a specialist team would take his complaint which is its process in 
these circumstances.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there no evidence Mr Os account had been unfairly targeted for fraud blocks and 
thought Mr O told Santander he didnt recognise the £196 transaction. The investigator 
thought Santander had fairly apologised for the call wait times and thought it was E that 
presented the payment again.
Mr O says the investigator has got the complaint completely wrong but says it is not his job 
to point out what has been missed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I can see Mr O appreciates that banks and building societies must have fraud and security 
measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept that on occasions that 
legitimate and genuine transactions as here, can be made subject to fraud blocks which 
inevitably leads to some inconvenience for customers. Im satisfied that is what took place 
here that some of Mr Os transactions have been held for security checks including the 
payment of £196 to E. I appreciate what Mr O says about the payments abroad, but I dont 
think that is relevant and am satisfied that its up to a business to assess risk and to follow its 
security process. I have not seen any evidence that Mr Os transactions were unfairly 
targeted or that he was treated any differently to other customers.
I can see that Mr O told Santander during one telephone call that E ignored him and 
presented the transaction again. I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for that and no 
doubt that is something Mr O can raise with E. I also cant fairly hold Santander responsible 
for any delay or issues caused by Mr O initially telling it that he didnt recognise the £196 
transaction to E.
I appreciate Mr O says that he didnt receive a response to his complaint as promised. I have 
reviewed the call transcripts and can see that Santander during the call of 11 September 
2021 told Mr O that he would receive a secure complaint response. Im satisfied that the 
response was made available as promised on 13 September 2021 and I cant fairly hold 
Santander responsible for Mr O not seeing it in those circumstances. 
We are not Santanders regulator and so its not our role to direct it to change its complaints 
procedure. Im satisfied that it has explained that procedure to Mr O and gave him the option 
to speak to its specialist department. I accept Mr O made a number of telephone calls to 
Santander and can see that it has fairly apologised for any call wait times.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander has investigated Mr Os concern about the security 
measures and am satisfied that it has fairly explained as best as it can when dealing with 
commercially sensitive issues, what took place and why. I have made clear that I cant fairly 
hold Santander responsible for Es actions and so cant fairly order that the payment be 
refunded. As I dont think Santander acted unfairly or made a mistake then I cant order 
compensation as Mr O would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman