DRN-1699808
The complaint
Mr T is a director of I, a limited company. He complains, on behalf of I that Great Lakes 
Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have refused to pay a claim and avoided his marine insurance 
policy.
What happened
In June 2015 Mr T arranged to purchase a vessel on behalf of company I. In November 2016 
he completed a proposal form to insure the vessel with Great Lakes, in the name of 
company I, noting himself as the beneficial owner. The purchase price was said to be 
$300,000 and the present value also $300,000. The policy was renewed in November 2017 
with the same information.
In October 2018 the vessel broke free from its moorings and suffered damage in a grounding 
incident.
Whilst investigating the claim, agents acting for Great Lakes say they established that the 
vessel was still registered to the previous owners. They also established the agreed 
purchase price was $230,000, not $300,000 and only $80,000 had been paid so far. They 
say that a director of the business that Mr T purchased the vessel from, continued to have 
an involvement with the vessel.
In January 2019 Great Lakes declined the claim and said that Mr T had misrepresented the 
policy at inception and the subsequent renewal. 
Mr T denies any misrepresentation and says any non-disclosure was unintentional. And that 
the questions asked when he arranged the insurance were ambiguous and were answered 
as best he could. 
Great Lakes has refunded the premiums but maintained its position to avoid the policy. Mr T 
was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that whilst Mr T may not have intentionally misinformed Great Lakes she 
was satisfied that there was a misrepresentation. And that had Great Lakes been aware of 
the full information they wouldnt have entered into the contract of insurance. So she didnt 
think it was unreasonable that they avoided the policy.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The unfortunate circumstances leading to the claim are not in dispute so I will not detail them 
here. The issue I have to decide is whether Great Lakes acted reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions and relevant legislation in avoiding the policy. When I refer to 
Great Lakes I include agents and contractors acting on its behalf.
The relevant legislation is the Insurance Act 2015 which sets out what is expected of 
commercial customers. It says commercial customers must give a fair presentation of the 
risk to insurers. This means the onus is on the customer to give clear information about the 
risk being insured by:
 
 disclosing every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know; or
 failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those 
material circumstances.
Ive looked at the proposal form and other information Mr T provided when he applied to 
insure the vessel. At the foot of the proposal, immediately above Mr Ts signature it states:-
Any misrepresentation in this application for insurance will render insurance coverage null 
and void from inception. Please therefore check to make sure that all questions have been 
fully answered and that all facts material to your insurance have been disclosed, if necessary 
by a supplement to the application. 
The proposal form asks for the name of the assured, and Mr T has stated company I. The 
proposal form also asks who the beneficial owner is and says this should be completed if 
vessel is insured in a company name or if the beneficial owner of the vessel is someone 
other than the Named Assured.  In answer to this question Mr T has provided his first name 
and surname. 
Im satisfied that the question about ownership is clear, and if Mr T felt the questions were 
ambiguous, he could have sought clarification, or disclosed any other parties with an interest 
in the vessel. 
The proposal form asks two specific questions about the value of the vessel. One being the 
present value, the other being the purchase price. Mr T has answered $300,000 to both 
questions. Mr T has explained that he secured a discount. It may be the present value was 
$300,000 but the purchase price has been misrepresented. Mr T agrees he hadnt actually 
paid the agreed purchase price in full to the previous owner but didnt think this was 
something Great Lakes wouldve wanted to know. 
At the time of the incident the vessel was still registered in the previous owners name, and 
Ive seen evidence that the previous owner became involved in discussions about the 
progress of the claim before it was repudiated.
 
Whilst Mr T may not have deliberately withheld information or misinformed Great Lakes, Im 
satisfied there was information Mr T was aware of and was required to inform the insurer of.
On balance Im persuaded that the previous owner still had an interest in the vessel. And this 
interest wasnt disclosed to Great Lakes. Ive also seen evidence from Great Lakes that they 
wouldnt have provided insurance to the previous owner, or any company he was associated 
with.
Taking account of all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that there hasnt been a fair 
presentation of risk. And had Great Lakes known all the information it wouldnt have 
provided insurance. So, I find its fair and reasonable for it to avoid the policy since inception. 
Great Lakes have refunded the initial premium and the renewal premium, I think that is fair 
and I wont be asking it to do more.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman