DRN-4103929
The complaint
Ms B complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision to decline her claim 
under her car insurance policy.   
What happened
Ms B says her car was stolen and, although it was later found by the police, there was fire 
damage caused to the car. She reported this to Ageas, but they declined her claim as they 
felt there were inconsistencies in Ms Bs account of events. Ms B complained and Ageas 
responded and explained Ms B originally informed them she only had one key in her 
possession, and another was with her daughter-in-law. They said, after the car was found, 
they arranged for their engineer to review the damage to determine how the car had been 
taken. They said the engineer deemed the car a category B total loss. The engineer also 
raised concerns as there were no signs of damage to the locks or ignition, and the steering 
lock was still engaged so a key wouldve been used for the car to be taken. Ageas said they 
raised further queries with Ms B but felt there were inconsistencies in her version of events 
and didnt believe the theft to have happened in the way described by Ms B.   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms B. She thought Ageas decision to decline the 
claim was unreasonable and recommended they review the claim further. Ms B agreed but 
Ageas disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I can see Ageas have declined Ms Bs claim on the basis of the following term: Failure to 
disclose correct and complete information to the best of your knowledge and belief may 
result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, your policy being 
cancelled or being made null & void and treated as if it never existed. This is set out in the 
policy documents under the Statement of Insurance and the Contract of insurance. So Ive 
looked to see whether, in the circumstances of this case, Ageas decision to decline the 
claim on this term is fair and reasonable.  
Ive listened to call recordings which includes Ms Bs first call to Ageas to notify them of the 
theft, a further call where Ageas discuss the circumstances involving the spare key in more 
detail, and a call where Ageas inform Ms B of their decision to decline the claim. Its clear 
from these calls, as well as Ageas correspondence with Ms B and our service, they have 
concerns about Ms Bs account of the events which led to her car being stolen. Ageas say 
they dont believe Ms B has been truthful and has withheld information. They also say they 
dont believe the circumstances described by Ms B as being plausible. 
In particular, theyve mentioned Ms B originally told them she didnt have the spare key or 
what had happened to it. They say once they informed Ms B that their engineer found that 
the car must have been taken using a key, then Ms B told them her spare key was missing. 
They say Ms B also didnt tell them originally that her daughter-in-laws home had been 
broken into and this was only mentioned after they informed Ms B they potentially wouldnt 
be covering the claim. They say theyre also concerned with Ms Bs account that the only 
item taken from her daughter-in-laws home during the break-in was Ms Bs spare key, which 
was kept in a locked kitchen cupboard. Ageas say, given that Ms Bs daughter-in-law lives 
10 minutes away and Ms Bs car was parked at her own home, this means the thief wouldve 
had to know where the key was kept in Ms Bs daughter-in-laws home, know which car it 
belonged to and then find the car at Ms Bs home which is 10 minutes away. Ageas say they 
dont believe this account of events. 
Taking this all into account, I understand Ageas have concerns about the account of events 
and the likelihood of the theft having happened in the way described by Ms B. But I dont 
think its reasonable in the circumstances for them to use the policy term they have to 
decline the claim. I say this because, where this term is set out in the Statement of 
Insurance, its preceded by Please read the following information carefully. Please advise 
us immediatelyshould any of the information be incorrect or missing. If we become aware 
of any changes to the information stated in this Statement of Insurance then we will update 
your policy and advise you of any change to your premium or to the terms that the insurer 
requires and send you a new Statement of Insurance. And in the Contract of insurance, its 
preceded by Its important that you check the information you have provided and notify us 
immediately of any changes to these details. 
The wording which precedes the policy term which Ageas are relying on relates to checking 
information prior to the policy going live to ensure its accurate and to notify Ageas of any 
changes. So its in relation to the information Ms B has provided at the point of sale and 
which has been used by Ageas to decide whether to offer a policy and at what price. The 
issue here though relates to Ageas concern about the account Ms B has given to them 
about the circumstances leading to her claim  and not about any information being incorrect 
at the point Ms Bs policy started. So, I dont think its reasonable for Ageas to rely on this 
particular policy term in support of their reason to decline the claim. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Ageas have acted unfairly in declining Ms Bs claim based on the 
specific policy term theyre using. So, Ageas should reconsider Ms Bs claim further, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make 
any other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I dont think its reasonable for them 
to use the specific policy term they have to justify their decision to decline the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited must reconsider  
Ms Bs claim in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman