DRN-4299718
The complaint
Mr L complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) would remove his ability to choose his 
own repairer following a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Mr L is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Ill supply a little of the background to Mr Ls claim, but Id also emphasise that his approach 
to this service concerns the cover given by esure under its policy. 
Mr L had a car insurance policy with esure covering his car.
He was involved in a collision with a third party. The third party was at faut. He contacted 
esure and made a claim.
esure said he could use its approved repairer, which was located some distance away from 
his home. Mr L wanted to use a more convenient repairer. esure said he could, but hed be 
responsible for paying an additional excess of £200 if he wanted to do this.
Mr Ls concern is about the additional excess applied by esure when customers choose to 
use their own repairer rather than esures approved network. He says this is done for esures 
own benefit and it may be unlawful. 
esure responded to Mr L and said its terms and conditions were in the policy wording so it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator issued a 
view and said that he thought esure had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr L asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Ive read details of Mr Ls claim and subsequent complaint. Ive also read the policy 
information he was supplied with when he applied for cover. 
Its important that I say were not the regulator and dont have the power to make a company 
change its processes. I understand Mr L has also made an approach to the regulator, the 
FCA, about the fitness of esures terms and conditions.
Its clear to me that Mr L feels particularly aggrieved that he didnt feel able to choose his 
own repairer when he contacted esure to make his claim. 
I can see that esure offered the following options to Mr L in its policy wording:
All loss and damage to your car unless its by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or 
attempted theft. We will:
 pay to repair the damage or
 replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
 pay to settle your claim.
I can see in its schedule and policy wording that esure sets out the excesses that may be 
payable. They say (in various sections and this is not exhaustive):
What is not insured 
The £200 excess applied if you do not use our recommended repairer
Excesses
Repair work by your own repairer £200
Our recommended repairer service
If the repairs to your car are completed by a repairer who is not recommended by us, 
your claim will be subject to an additional £200 policy excess and none of the 
recommended repairer benefits will be available 
So I think esure make it clear in its wording that there are different options to repair or pay 
for or replace the damage, and that a different excess will be charged by using an approved 
repairer. This is a common approach in motor insurance.
The reason esure seems to do this is because, by using a non-approved repairer, esures 
costs typically increase. It will already have agreements about (for example) agreed labour 
rates with its approved network, so when a customer like Mr L chooses their own garage, 
esure will have to carry out additional work liaising with the repairer. And it may feel it needs 
to send an engineer out to look at the car because the repairer is using systems esure cant 
easily access.
These are just examples to illustrate why esure might choose to apply the additional excess. 
But I think its fair esure apply this additional excess and I think it reasonably told Mr L about 
it in the policy documents. Mr L could have opted to use another provider if he didnt agree 
with the terms and conditions. 
Mr L also mentions that the cost of his repairs, including the excess, would have been 
recoverable by esure from the third party who caused the collision. Mr Ls policy states that 
his excess is payable in the event of all claims under his policy. This is standard industry 
practice, and I cant say that this is unreasonable. 
It doesnt seem to say what would happen to his excess if esure was able to recover all of its 
costs but its likely that it would have been returned to him as an uninsured loss once the 
recovery was complete. 
But Im satisfied that it told him about the excesses in his policy terms and conditions. If Mr L didnt agree with the terms of the policy then he reasonably had the opportunity to object to 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman