DRN-3991502
The complaint
Mr M complains AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company(AXA) hasnt paid enough for 
his car when it was written off and he claimed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say that if the car is written off AXA will 
settle the claim by paying the market value of the vehicle. 
Market value is defined as The amount we may pay for your car immediately prior to 
the loss of damage.
AXA valued Mr Ms car at £3,800 prior to any deductions. A figure which an 
Insurance Assessor instructed by Mr M agreed with. 
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation 
is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do 
this we tend to use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre 
based on nationwide research of sale prices.
Given both parties agree on the base valuation, and it appears to be in the range of 
the trade guides, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
The dispute appears to be the amount that has then been deducted to recognise the 
fact the car had already previously been written off. AXA deducted 20% of the value 
whereas the loss assessor believes 10% is more reasonable. 
It isnt for this service to dictate how much an insurer can deduct from a valuation to 
reflect a previous total loss. It is common in the industry for a deduction to be made, 
as this reflects the impact a vehicle being written off has on its market value. I dont 
think AXAs deduction of 20% is unfair or unusual in this instance.
For the reasons given above, I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in valuing Mr Ms 
car so. I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against AXA Insurance Designated 
Activity Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman