DRN-3341136
The complaint
Mr C has complained after he invested money into his individual savings account (ISA) with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc, but the money sat as a cash holding rather than being invested into 
the fund he wanted. 
What happened
Mr C invested approximately £20,000 into an ISA with Barclays in December 2020. Mr C 
says he noticed in February 2021 (after receiving a statement of accounts) that the amount 
he had invested was being held as a cash holding within his stocks and shares ISA. 
Mr C complained to Barclays. He said that he had made clear that he wished for the money 
to be invested and had spoken to an account manager who confirmed it had. He thought 
Barclays should have let him know sooner what had happened and he also felt that the initial 
process to invest was complicated.
Barclays responded to say that the request had been completed online and that they had 
done as Mr C had asked. They confirmed that the amount did earn some level of interest 
within the cash holding and also stated their belief that it wasnt up to them to monitor 
accounts. They provided a statement from the account manager which they said proved 
there was no confirmation of the amount going into the fund. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so brought the complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it. He said that Barclays had done what Mr C had asked 
of them. He also said that there was no evidence of the call with Mr Cs account manager 
where it was confirmed the investment had gone ahead as Mr C intended. 
Mr C responded to say that that he had lost out on approximately £450 by the amount being 
sat as a cash holding. He maintained that the account manager had misinformed him and 
reiterated how complex the process to invest had been. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I do understand the frustration that Mr C must have felt. He has made it clear that this 
was a sizeable investment for him and to find out that it hadnt been invested for over two 
months as he intended, must have been very disappointing. 
However, having considered all the evidence provided, I dont believe that Barclays have 
made an error. They have provided screenshots which show that whilst the ISA account was 
credited, no deal was placed into the fund. Mr Cs transaction history shows the credit but no 
confirmation of a deal. This is unlike February 2020, when he previously purchased units in 
the fund in question. Mr C needed to actively select the fund he wanted to buy in to and I 
havent been provided with any evidence that he did that. 
Mr C says he called the account manager to query the trade and was told it had gone ahead 
as he had wanted. Unfortunately, we do not have any recording of this conversation. 
However, the employee in question has provided a statement and stated that he confirmed 
the transfer from Mr Cs current account into the ISA account. He has said that he wont 
have had access to information such as what investment was held within the ISA account. I 
am therefore satisfied that it was confirmed to Mr C that the transfer had been completed but 
I dont believe it was confirmed that the amount had gone into the fund that Mr C was 
wanting to invest into. 
Mr C has also suggested that his ISA account should have been monitored and he should 
have been informed that the money was sitting as a cash holding. However, I dont believe 
this is the role of the business or feasible to do. Many customers choose to retain an amount 
in the cash holding facility of a stocks and shares ISA on a temporary basis whilst they 
decide what to invest in or monitor the markets. 
In summary, Mr C was clearly frustrated but I dont believe that Barclays did anything wrong. 
Mr C didnt actively select the fund to invest into and so no further deal was placed. Whilst 
there might have been a miscommunication with the account manager, I dont believe that 
was an error and I am satisfied he informed Mr C that the money was in the ISA account. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman