DRN-2725893
The complaint
Mr W complains TSB Bank plc unfairly declined his request for a bank statement print-out 
(print-out) when he visited a branch.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In response to the pandemic TSB decided to only allow essential transactions in its 
branches. Essential transactions are those that need be completed urgently and 
cant be completed another way. This was an approach taken by the industry 
generally and is in line with government and Financial Conduct Authority guidance. I 
dont think it was wrong for TSB to limit what it would and wouldnt undertake in its 
branches in the way it did.
In July 2020 Mr W went to a TSB branch to ask about a transaction and for a 
print-out. The branch declined his request for a print-out saying this wasnt an 
essential transaction. Mr W complained. In response, TSB explained it wouldnt be 
able to provide print-outs but accepted the service could have been better and 
offered some compensation. 
In August 2020 Mr W returned to the TSB branch to ask whether a dividend payment 
had been received. My understanding is he was told details of the transaction he was 
querying but his request for a print-out was declined. Mr W went to another branch 
which gave him a print-out. 
Mr W complained as he felt hes been forced to go to a busier branch, which was 
riskier given the pandemic and that he has a health concern and lives with his elderly 
mother. TSB responded to say, in summary, that his transactional wasnt essential 
and that he should have known this following his July 2020 complaint.
I understand Mr Ws frustration. Ordinarily, he would have been able to attend branch 
and get a print-out. But these were unusual times and I agree with TSB that a 
print-out wasnt an essential transaction. I say this because Mr W received the 
information he needed when the cashier provided the details verbally. And if he 
wanted further confirmation the payment had been received, he could have obtained 
it by other means  such as through a mini-statement from an ATM, by registering for 
online or telephone banking, or by reviewing his paper statement when it became 
available. 
On the face of it, the second branch agreeing to provide a print-out would suggest 
the first branch should have provided one too. But Ive seen TSBs internal guidance 
on what is and isnt essential. It clearly shows providing a print-out isnt considered 
an essential transaction, but that a branch can use its discretion. Im satisfied thats 
what happened here. I consider the second branch using its discretion - to assist 
Mr W - as a positive, rather than a demonstration of a failing on the part of the first 
branch.
Im aware Mr W has been disappointed with some of the customer service he 
received from TSB following him raising his complaint, such as his name being set 
out incorrectly on a final response letter and members of staff not identifying 
themselves. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I cant comment on 
those.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ws frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman