DRN-3308710
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
On 5 August 2021 Mrs H paid £1,407.60 to a holiday rental company host. She later found 
out the holiday rental site was a clone of a genuine site and shed been the victim of a scam. 
Mrs H contacted Monzo on 6 August to report what had happened.
Monzo investigated Mrs Hs claim but declined to provide a refund. It said it could only look 
to refund transfers paid to UK bank accounts, but Mrs H made an international payment. 
The investigator who considered Mrs Hs complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
noted that the scam payment was an international payment and so the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt apply. He also didnt think the payment was 
unusual given Mrs Hs normal account activity and so didnt think Monzo had any reason to 
intervene when the payment was made. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator, so her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. But the CRM Code only applies to transfers to UK accounts in 
pounds sterling. In this case the transfer was made to an international bank and in Euros, so 
I cant consider Mrs Hs claim under the CRM Code. Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo 
could have done more to protect Mrs H from financial harm. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry Mrs H has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I need to decide if Monzo did enough to protect her from the loss she 
suffered and what, if anything, ought to be done to put things right. Based on what Ive seen, 
I dont think Monzo need to do anything further. I understand that Im delivering a difficult 
message and Id like to reassure Mrs H that Ive carefully considered her complaint before 
reaching this decision. 
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably in Mrs Hs case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monzo should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment request Mrs H made on 5 August 2021 was out of character and 
unusual.
Having reviewed Mrs Hs bank statements for the 12-month period before the scam Im 
satisfied the payment request wasnt so unusual or suspicious given Mrs Hs normal account 
activity that Monzo should have taken further action. I say this because Mrs H made a 
number of transactions for similar amounts shortly before the scam payment. For example, 
Mrs H made payments of £1,043 and £1,000 in August 2021 (before the scam payment) and 
in July 2021 she made payments of £1,000, £1,300 and £1,123. In the circumstances, a 
payment of £1,407.60 wouldnt stand out as unusual or suspicious to Monzo. And although 
the scam payment left Mrs Hs account slightly overdrawn, this also wasnt unusual. The only 
unusual factor was that Mrs H made an international transfer, but I dont consider this in itself 
was enough to prompt Monzo to intervene.  
Ive also considered whether Monzo acted reasonably in trying to recover Mrs Hs funds. I 
can see that Monzo contacted the bank that received Mrs Hs funds on the day the scam 
was reported to it, which is what Id expect. The bank that received Mrs Hs funds hasnt 
responded, but I cant hold Monzo responsible for this. Im afraid its very unusual for 
international banks to return scam funds as this would require the consent of the account 
holder  which is highly unlikely given the payment was made as part of a scam.
Overall
Im sorry Mrs H has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Monzo responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman