DRN-2290123
The complaint 
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated her unfairly in flagging transactions 
shes genuinely attempted to make from her account. She says this has caused her trouble 
and upset. 
What happened
Ms S says that when she tries to make payments from her Barclays account to another 
account that she holds with another bank (who I shall call A), Barclays fraud systems flag 
these. She needs to contact the fraud department to confirm shes genuinely made the 
payments. Ms S has provided examples of when this has happened - she says the 
payments arent unusual or suspicious so this shouldnt be happening. Shes also 
highlighted that when her clients (also Barclays customers) try to pay money into her 
account with A, theyre put through to Barclays fraud department. Ms S believes Barclays 
has made defamatory comments about her to her clients.
Ms S had a separate complaint against Barclays where she says it incorrectly put a zero 
spend on her account (this complaint was resolved). She thinks its possible that this 
situation could be connected to what happened then.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about her transactions being flagged. She 
said the account terms and conditions allowed for this to happen and ultimately this process 
was there to safeguard against fraud. The investigator also said our service couldnt deal 
with her complaint about other customers being put through to the fraud department. She 
explained that this wasnt a complaint shed be eligible to bring under our rules. Ms S 
accepted this view, but she said shed still like a decision about her own transactions being 
flagged. So, for the avoidance of any doubt this decision will only deal with the matter of 
what happens when Ms S makes payments from her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand it must be frustrating for Ms S when payments shes genuinely made are 
flagged and she needs to contact the bank to confirm shes made them. Particularly, as I 
know this has happened to her a few times. This leads to a delay and she needs the money 
at the other end. 
However, the account terms and conditions say that the bank can refuse to make a payment 
where it needs to check the instruction came from the account holder. As part of my review, I 
have asked Barclays to check whether there is a marker or a note on Ms Ss account which 
means shes being treated unfairly. Barclays has checked and told me that there isnt. It says 
that where payments have been flagged thats been as a result of its fraud prevention 
checks to which all accounts are subject. The account notes support this. I can also see that 
once Ms S has contacted the fraud department it has followed its procedures and released 
the payments. Thats what Id expect to happen. 
So, whilst Im sympathetic to the inconvenience these delays have caused Ms S, I havent 
seen anything direct which leads me to conclude shes being treated unfairly.
 
Such checks help to protect customers and banks against potential fraud  and unfortunately 
there will always be an element of inconvenience involved in having to call and answer the 
security questions. But as I have said, theres nothing to suggest that whats happened here 
is anything other than standard fraud checks, which Barclays was and is entitled to make, 
even if the payments were going to the customers own account.
I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision and that shes lost confidence in 
Barclays. Hopefully what I have said here will go some way to restoring her confidence. But 
given the available evidence, I dont think Barclays has made a mistake. It follows that I 
wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman