DRN-4355039
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim under his 
home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
In January 2022, Mr S contacted British Gas to report a fault with his cooker. 
Several engineer appointments were booked but were either rescheduled or 
unattended by British Gas. 
In April 2022, an engineer attended and diagnosed a fault with the cooker but didnt 
order the replacement parts. The engineer closed the job as resolved in error, which 
meant a follow up appointment to fit the replacement parts wasnt arranged. 
As things hadnt progressed with the claim, Mr S complained to British Gas about the 
service hed received.
In response British Gas accepted its service had fallen short. It apologised and said it 
should have achieved a repair sooner. In total it offered £320 compensation to reflect 
the difficulties Mr S had experienced. And it said it wouldnt increase the cost of his 
premiums at renewal. 
Mr S remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and recommended British Gas pay an additional £180 compensation  
bringing the total compensation to £500.  
British Gas accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr S didnt consider the 
compensation to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience he experienced. And 
so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas accepts it didnt treat Mr S fairly when handling his claim and its paid 
compensation to recognise the impact this had on him. So, what I need to decide is 
whether the compensation our Investigator recommended - an additional £180 - fairly 
reflects the difficulties Mr S experienced. 
But first, its important to explain that whilst Mr S has said British Gas failings had 
wider implications  because he says his tenants were also negatively impacted - this 
Service cant make awards for distress and inconvenience in respect of third parties. 
And so, when determining compensation, Im only considering distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr S. 
From reading Mr S testimony, his strength of feeling about how British Gas has 
treated him unfairly is very clear. Understandably, having several engineer 
appointments rescheduled, engineers fail to attend appointments, parts not ordered 
or incorrectly ordered, and the claim incorrectly closed, culminated in Mr S feeling 
exasperated and stressed by the situation. 
Its disappointing British Gas only started to get a handle on Mr S claim when he 
complained about the service hed experienced. But I note there was also a delay in 
addressing Mr Ss concerns, and I appreciate this would have compounded his 
frustrations. 
I accept that there might have been factors outside of British Gas control which 
prevented the repair from happening as quickly  namely the availability of parts. But 
I agree with our Investigator that had it not been for the errors made earlier on in the 
claim, Mr S cooker would have been repaired sooner and the impact of any 
unavoidable delays wouldnt have been as hard felt by him.
Mr S said he lost out on income through potential overtime work when he stayed 
home for appointments which engineers failed to attend. We dont usually make a 
specific award for someones time or calculate it using a set amount  and based on 
the evidence Mr S has provided, Im not persuaded to direct British Gas to pay him 
what hes asked for regarding payment. But Ive kept the impact of these missed 
appointments in mind when deciding what I consider to be fair compensation. 
Mr S has also said the delays in repairing his oven could have potentially jeopardised 
his rental income. But hes acknowledged this hasnt happened and I dont think it 
would be reasonable to hold British Gas responsible for circumstances which havent 
materialised  though I recognise the possibility of it happening was a worry for Mr S. 
I understand Mr S wants compensation which far exceeds the amount our 
Investigator recommended. Hes said its too low and therefore, wont encourage 
British Gas to change its ways. It is not this Services role to penalise and punish 
businesses. And the purpose of compensation is to recognise the impact a 
businesss actions has had on a consumer  which will differ depending on the 
individual and the circumstances of the complaint. 
As I said above, I appreciate how strongly Mr S feels about his complaint but keeping 
in mind the circumstances of the claim, and the direct impact on him as an individual, 
Im satisfied compensation totalling £500 is fair in the circumstances and in line with 
awards this Service makes in respect of distress and inconvenience. 
I understand British Gas has already paid Mr S £320 and so, it must pay Mr S an 
additional £180 compensation. 
British Gas also offered to freeze the cost of Mr S premium at renewal  which is a 
reasonable gesture  but as Mr S has since cancelled his policy this falls away. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr S an additional £180 compensation. British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
simple interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman