DRN-3120563
The complaint
Mr N complains about charges for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In June 2018 Mr N acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. He took the 
agreement over a period of three years.
At the end of the agreement in June 2021 the car was collected by a company Ill call J, and 
an initial inspection was carried out. This inspection noted damage to both front alloy wheels.
The car was then taken by J and a second, more detailed inspection was done. At the 
beginning of July 2021 MBFS sent Mr N an invoice for the following damage to the car:
Wheel left hand front damaged £110
Wheel right hand front damaged £110
Right hand door dented over 13mm with paint damage £260
Total £480
Mr N was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. Later in July Mr N paid the cost of the 
damage to the wheels - £220  to MBFS.
MBFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, that all of the damage fell outside of the 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) that Mr N agreed to. It said Mr N had seen these when he 
took the agreement, and it sent a copy to him six months before the end of the agreement. It 
said the person who collected the car didnt have the tool to identify the dent on the first 
inspection which is why it wasnt picked up.
Mr N brought the complaint to our service. He said the dent shouldve been picked up on the 
first inspection, as J were there for around an hour. He said he thought J damaged the car in 
transit. And he said the charges were excessive for the damage.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, he said he thought the damage to the car fell outside of fair wear and tear 
guidelines and so MBFS could charge Mr N for it. And he said he thought the charges were 
in line with what hed expect. 
Mr N remained unhappy with this. He said there was no evidence of the dent when the car 
was inspected on his drive. But because there was evidence at the second inspection, this 
proves J damaged the car. And he still said the charges were excessive.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr N complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ns complaint about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr N for damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr N agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
So, Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In response to the investigators view, Mr N pointed out hed paid for the damage to the 
wheels as he accepted this was present on the first inspection. But, for the sake of 
completeness, I think its worth me commenting on this.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Scuff (sic) chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The BVRLA says:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
 
Looking at the photos of the wheels, Im satisfied both have damage exceeding 50mm on 
the circumference. This means the damage is outside fair wear and tear on both the VRS 
and BVRLA guidance.
In relation to bodywork, the VRS says the following is not acceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not brokenLooking at the photos of the dent, Im satisfied the paintwork has clearly been broken 
through. So, it follows Im satisfied the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear for the both 
the VRS and BVRLA guidance.
Ive then gone on to consider when the damage likely happened.
The damage to the wheels was noted in the first report, so I dont need to comment further 
here.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr N said about the dent and when this likely 
happened. Ive reviewed the photos and video from the first inspection and I agree this 
doesnt show the dent.
Ive thought about Mr Ns argument here. He said, because the dent cant be seen in the first 
inspection, this proves J damaged the car. But, I dont agree with the logic here. I agree 
there isnt evidence the dent was present at the first inspection. But, the key point is I also 
dont think there is evidence that the dent wasnt present at the first inspection. I say this as 
there isnt a specific photo of the door. And, the video is quite low resolution  with a 
significant amount of reflections showing in the bodywork.
Ive very carefully thought about everything here. But, I havent seen enough to make me 
think its most likely the dent wasnt present at the first inspection. And thinking about things 
in the round, I think its more likely this damage happened in the three years Mr N had the 
car, rather than the few days J had it between the inspections.
Ive finally gone on to consider the amounts charged. But Mr N hasnt provided any evidence 
or specific information about why he thinks these were excessively applied. Thinking about 
things here, I dont think MBFS need to take any action on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman