DRN-4020153
The complaint
Miss L complains that APFIN LTD, trading as cashasap.co.uk (Apfin) in 2022 failed to 
manage her account and credit reporting following an earlier incident from 2020.
What happened
Matters relating to a fraud incident in March 2020 are the background to this complaint. It 
related to a loan taken from Apfin in Miss Ls name but not by her. That sounds as though it 
has been investigated and the party involved (not Miss L) has been prosecuted. Miss L has 
told us that she received compensation from the Court.
In March 2020, Apfin told Miss L that it would remove the loan from her credit file and it 
would not be pursuing her for any loan sums as it accepted the fraud matter had been 
resolved. Neither Miss L nor Apfin has been able to provide us with any evidence about what 
happened to any credit file entries.
In the summer of 2022 Miss L instructed a Claims Management Company (CMC) to raise 
several complaints against a number of loan companies and mistakenly included this Apfin 
loan on the list given to her CMC. So Apfin received an irresponsible lending/mis-sold loan 
complaint from the CMC acting for Miss L in July 2022. The CMC no longer acts for her. The 
mis-sale complaint has been withdrawn by Miss L.
That mis-sale complaint, Apfin says, precipitated the complaint process to be activated and 
alongside that an arrears letter was generated. Miss L was annoyed to receive that. 
Miss L explains it has had a bad effect on her and in her view demonstrates that the credit 
file entry had not been removed in March 2020 as Apfin had said it would be. Miss L has told 
us that coincidentally she was declined credit for a washing machine purchase in 2022 and 
so she says this was further evidence of Apfins failure to do what it said it was going to do 
with the credit file in 2020. No evidence has been sent of that credit refusal either. 
Apfin sent to Miss L a final response letter (FRL) in July 2022 in which it explained it had 
corrected her credit file again, it had no real explanation as to why that had been missed or 
had been re-applied. But it accepted something had gone wrong and so it offered £75. That 
offer remains. 
Apfin sent a detailed explanation to our adjudicator who reviewed it all and did not think that 
Apfin had done anything wrong. And he considered that what Apfin had acknowledged and 
had offered to pay £75 as a distress and inconvenience payment was satisfactory. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Ls complaint and with no evidence about the credit file 
entries, or the failed credit application, then he could come to no conclusions on that point 
either. Apfin has confirmed that in July 2022 it removed the entry from Miss Ls credit file.
Miss L disagreed. She made a counter-offer to accept £200 from Apfin to resolve the 
complaint. This was put to Apfin which said that as no further evidence had been provided 
then it did not see why it should increase the offer. 
Miss L was informed. She was asked to send in further details such as her credit file. Our 
adjudicator explained that a current one would cover the past six years. It would give him 
insight into the state of her credit file to determine the likely cause of the credit application 
decline. Miss L has not done this and she was asked for it a month ago.
Our adjudicator wrote again to say that the complaint was being passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read all the details. There is very little evidence on the complaint file as to the fraud 
matter which was dealt with some time ago and is background to this complaint. Although, 
I was sorry to read that Miss L had had to experience all that upset in the past. So, having 
read all that I have been sent, most of which I took time to summarise in the what happened 
part of the decision, then I need not repeat it here. 
Neither Apfin nor Miss L have sent evidence of Apfin failing to remove the credit entry in 
March 2020. And Apfin has given a detailed and credible explanation as to why, which, in 
the absence of anything else I am inclined to accept. It was an oversight or an administrative 
hiccup. Or it was removed in March 2020 and then re-applied when Miss L made the 
irresponsible lending /mis-sale complaint through her CMC in 2022. 
Theres no evidence that the washing machine credit application was declined for the Apfin 
reason.
The fact that Apfin have acknowledged and recognised that something has gone wrong and 
has offered  Miss L £75 to compensate her I consider to have been a fair offer. I endorse it.
As this was made in the FRL and before it was referred to us then I officially do not uphold 
the complaint. But I expect that Apfin will send that payment to Miss L.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
2 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman