DRN-2771930
The complaint
Mr S complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading as James Hay 
Partnership (James Hay) hasnt agreed to fully refund fraudulent payments from his Self-
invested personal pension (SIPP).
  
What happened
Mr S has had a SIPP with James Hay since 2003. He takes a regular monthly income of 
around £2,000 which is paid into his account with bank S. Mr S has periodic reviews with 
his financial advisor (not from James Hay) regarding his investment strategy. 
In June 2019 James Hay received an email apparently from Mr S asking to set up online 
access to his SIPP. As part of its security procedure James Hay wrote to Mr S at his home 
address with a code to set up the online access. This letter was intercepted by a fraudster 
and the online access was set up.
Shortly after this James Hay received instructions through the online portal to update Mr Ss 
email address and his mobile phone number. No additional checks were made to verify the 
instructions were from Mr S. His May 2019 monthly income payment had been made as 
usual, but from June payments totalling over £39,546 (net of tax) were requested to be paid 
to bank B, along with instructions to sell units to fund the transfers. In September a 
payment of around 311,700 (net) was made to bank H and high value payments totalling 
over £82,000 to bank I for October, November and December 2019. So seven payments 
were made from Mr Ss SIPP without his knowledge and without James Hay making any 
additional checks. 
Mr S was on holiday in August 2019 and was away again in October 2019 retuning in 
January 2020. On his return he realised he hadnt been receiving his mail and no monthly 
income payments had been received to his account with S since May 2019. Mr S 
complained to James Hay and the fraud was discovered. Mr S feared his mail was being 
intercepted, as the mail boxes in his block of flats werent entirely secure. Mr S is in his 80s 
and the situation has caused him significant worry and distress. 
James Hay undertook an investigation, which discovered more than £133,500 had been 
withdrawn from Mr Ss SIPP (compared to the £13,080 he was expecting for that period), 
reducing the balance from around £290,000 to £95,000. James Hay accepted that from 
September 2019, concerns should have been raised about the frequent, high value and out 
of character payments being made to multiple bank accounts. But they refused to repay the 
full amount as they had followed their security process for setting up the online access by 
sending a letter to Mr Ss home address with the access code. They hadnt been made 
aware of concerns about the security of Mr Ss mail and had no reason to suspect it wasnt 
Mr S himself setting up the access. So they offered Mr S an ex gratia payment of 
£93,991.03 being the total of four payments made between September and December 2019 
(net of tax). And in January 2020 they credited £87,867 to the SIPP, being the tax reclaimed 
from HMRC. 
Mr S rejected the offer as it didnt fully reimburse his loss. So he brought his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and said James Hay should refund 
Mr S in full. He felt although James Hay had followed its own procedures, in this case they 
hadnt done enough to verify the instructions were coming from Mr S. 
James Hay disagreed saying the investigator was applying hindsight, the security control of 
sending a letter to Mr Ss home address was sufficient, plus they provided copies of letters 
sent to Mr S and his IFA, which they couldnt know hadnt been received. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to ne to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not the role of this service to investigate the fraud itself or identify whos responsible, 
thats for the police. It seems the perpetrator was aware Mr S held substantial funds with 
James Hay and was able to intercept his mail to set up the online access and prevent Mr S 
himself being alerted to the fraud. This decision will simply consider whether James Hay did 
enough to protect Mr Ss funds, and like the investigator I dont think they did. 
I accept the first time a consumer requests online access to their account is by its nature out 
of character but not necessarily suspicious. And increasingly businesses may encourage 
their customers towards self-service channels. As the investigator explained were not the 
industry regular so we dont generally comment on the way a firm conducts its business, as 
these are decisions they are entitled to make based on the risk they believe the situation 
presents. But James Hay must comply with the relevant regulatory and data protection 
requirements to protect the security of their customers funds and personal information. So 
Ive looked at what James Hay did to ensure it was acting on genuine instructions. 
Mr Ss personal and contact details 
James Hay couldnt know Mr Ss mail was at risk of being intercepted, indeed Mr S seems 
not to have suspected anything was wrong until January 2020. But James Hays records 
include Mr Ss date of birth, so it knew hes an elderly gentleman. James Hay has a copy of 
Mr Ss lasting power of attorney (LPA) in favour of his two sons which his IFA encouraged 
him to establish due to his age. And in January 2019 James Hay received Mr Ss 
expression of wish form which was completed in Mr Ss hand and contained his email 
address (which is made up of his first and surnames) and mobile phone number, which were 
held on their system. They were also aware Mr Ss usual contact method was telephone or 
handwritten letter. Mr S uses notepaper pre-printed with his address including his mobile 
telephone number and his email address which match those on the expression of wish form.  
On 7 June 2019 James Hay received an online registration application purporting to be from 
Mr S. A user name was generated which was made up of Mr Ss name and the two digits of 
his year of birth. The application quoted an email address not in Mr Ss name including the 
digits 44 which doesnt reflect Mr Ss year of birth or his address. As manual verification 
was needed, a letter containing an authorisation code would be sent to Mr Ss home 
address. James Hay quickly received a message querying whether the access code would 
be sent out automatically or whether he needed to request it. This message quoted the 
same email address but also included a mobile phone number which was different from the 
one held for Mr S. A week later James Hay received a message through the portal headed 
change of personal details quoting the same email and mobile number asking how to change the mobile number James Hay held as it was an old one I no longer use. James 
Hay didnt think this was incongruous and replied on 20 June that personal details can be 
changed through the portal, by secure message or by sending a signed letter. And on receipt 
of the instruction confirmed the number had been updated on 8 July 2019. Once the online 
access was set up the other changes could be made with no further checks. 
Mr Ss bank account details 
Mr S had received regular monthly income payments into his account with S for many 
years and ad hoc payments would be out of character. In June 2019 James Hay received 
two instructions for ad hoc payments  £4,800 on 17 June 2019 and £7,300 on 26 June 
2019 to be paid to Mr Ss account with bank B. Units were sold to fund these payments. 
On 20 August 2019 someone calling themselves Alan (not Mr Ss name) called from the 
new mobile number asking how to change the bank details. The caller was told to send a 
secure message. Although no personal data was disclosed James Hay didnt seem alert to 
the discrepancy in the name or that the call might be suspicious. A secure message followed 
the same day saying Mr S had closed the bank account James Hay had on file (without 
giving those details) and providing the account details for the account with bank B. 
Unfortunately this all took place before banks were required to verify that the number 
matched the account name which would have revealed the account did not belong to Mr S. 
James Hay received a secure message on 30 September 2019 apparently from Mr S saying 
hed been called by his bank to say the September income payment of around £11,782 had 
been returned and wondered what would happen to the funds. He was told James Hay 
couldnt provide further information until the funds were returned but theyd be credited to his 
SIPP cash account. The caller doesnt appear to have been identified during that call. 
Why I think James Hay did something wrong 
James Hay admits concerns shouldve been raised from the 25 September payment to bank 
H followed by the three payments to bank I. Although in fact they werent suspicious even 
then, as the fraud was only discovered when Mr S queried his missing payments. In relation 
to the set-up of online access swiftly followed by the change of email address and mobile 
number and the new bank account with B James Hay says they had no reason . to 
suspect the request had come from anywhere other than [Mr S] himself. But I disagree. I 
think taken together the speed and out of character nature of the changes should have 
raised concerns from the outset, particularly given Mr Ss age and potential vulnerability. 
Although James Hay was satisfied the instructions were genuine as they originated through 
the secure online access, as that had been set up fraudulently then any transactions made 
that way were also fraudulent. 
A customer isnt obliged to explain their actions, but its surely unusual for an elderly 
customer to change their email address, get a new mobile phone and change their bank 
details in about two months, so soon after setting up online access for the first time, and 
when theyd recently included those contact details on an important document like an LPA. 
So when James Hay received the first email which originated from a different email address 
than the one it held and which didnt even attempt to replicate Mr Ss name, I think this 
should have raised concerns. Instead of sending a standard letter containing the code 
without having established it originated from Mr S, I consider it wouldve been reasonable to 
require an additional step to obtain the authorisation code. For example requesting a phone 
call whereby the caller would be taken through security. Of course this might not be fool 
proof as its possible the fraudster knew enough of Mr Ss personal data to answer the 
security questions. But having to impersonate Mr S might have acted as a deterrent. And it 
would have provided James Hay with the opportunity to ask further questions and assess 
whether the caller appeared to align with other details they held about Mr S (such as his age and nationality), particularly relevant for an out of character contact from a vulnerable 
consumer. 
James Hays standard letter to Mr Ss home address providing the authorisation code, 
explained that before online access to client data can be granted a number of security 
checks must be completed of which the security code is described as the last step in our 
security process. Understandably details of a firms security procedures will be confidential. 
But given the contact did not originate from Mr S, wasnt in his usual format or from the email 
address James Hay held for him Im not sure what other security checks theyd carried out. 
James Hay has confirmed its envelopes include information which would enable its 
correspondence to be identified. So the fraudster had been told to expect a letter containing 
the code it needed to activate online access and could do so without completing any 
identification checks and with no direct contact with anyone from James Hay. 
James Hay is correct that they arent expected to monitor how a customer chooses to spend 
their own money in retirement. But I cant fairly say its just with hindsight the pattern of 
behaviour should have raised concerns. Mr Ss income had been paid to bank S for many 
years and then in a short period of time he apparently changed his email address, mobile 
telephone number, and bank details and then made multiple payments of a higher value 
than usual, with no apparent rationale and without consulting his IFA. As each of the 
communications or changes involved a different person at James Hay nobody saw the full 
picture or considered whether things didnt feel right. It seems the possibility the account was 
vulnerable to fraud simply didnt occur to them. 
I can see James Hay did send a number of confirmation notes to Mr S and his IFA 
confirming the actions it had taken (such as the new bank details or selling units) and to 
inform him that the payments he had made would be subject to tax due to the annual 
allowance being triggered. But that was standard procedure, the letters werent sent 
because James Hay was suspicious and wanted to confirm the transactions were genuine. 
In any case it appears the fraudster was able to intercept the letters addressed to Mr S, who 
wasnt expecting them so didnt realise theyd gone missing. And the IFAs role was simply to 
advise Mr S on investment strategy a couple of times a year not to monitor how he chose to 
spend his pension fund. So his intervention might have presented an earlier opportunity for 
the fraud to be discovered rather than prevented it from happening. And Im satisfied Mr S 
didnt make the changes himself or authorise anyone to make them on his behalf. Nor have I 
seen anything to suggest he acted negligently by sharing his personal information with a 
third party.  
So while James Hay might be generally satisfied with its security protocol of sending a letter 
including the authorisation code to a customers home address, in the circumstances of this 
case I dont think they did enough to protect Mr Ss funds or to ensure they were 
communicating with him.
So Im going to uphold the complaint and require James Hay Administration Company Ltd 
trading as James Hay Partnership to reimburse Mr S in full for his losses which was the 
solution proposed by the investigator. But I didnt think that went far enough to recognise the 
impact of the loss of the use of those funds for a sustained period of time. 
In view of the length of time the matter had been outstanding and in recognition of Mr Ss 
age and the distress the situation had caused him, I let James Hay know what I was 
proposing, and my understanding is they were agreeable to the proposed redress. 
So this decision simply formalises that redress. 
Putting things rightJames Hay has set out the fraudulent payments as follows:
Date Amount (net of tax)
25 June 2019 £5,712.97
29 July 2019 £6,848.17
23 August 2019 £26,985.02
25 September 2019 £11,782.87
28 October 2019 £33,782.87
26 November 2019 £45,442.42
23 December 2019 £2,982.87
Total £133,537.19
James Hay should refund the total of these payments to Mr S. I understand it has already 
repaid £87,867 of tax reclaimed from HMRC. 
In addition, for each payment James Hay should apply interest at 8% simple per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
And in respect of the worry and distress this has caused to Mr S James Hay should pay him 
£500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading as James Hay 
Partnership should put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman