DRN-2513510
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC issued agreements in principle (AIPs) with 
different amounts. He says hes missed out on numerous property deals as a result and 
suffered stress and panic attacks. Mr S asks for £1,500 compensation and for staff members 
to be retrained or fired.
What happened
Mr S says Barclays issued several AIPs to him, each with different amounts. He says these 
were provided to him by Barclays branch staff. 
Our investigator said, on balance, the evidence didnt show the AIPs were provided by 
mortgage advisers. She said it was more likely they were provided by bank staff based on 
information provided by Mr S, or generated by Mr S. The investigator said AIPs arent an 
offer to lend, which would be subject to a full mortgage application.
Mr S didnt agree, in summary saying he wants Barclays held to account for its errors and 
the embarrassment this caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr S says AIPs were issued to him by Barclays in August and November 2019 for about 
£450,000 to £460,000. An AIP was issued for £195,000 in May 2020: Barclays says this is 
the correct amount based on Mr Ss income.
Mr S says the AIPs with the higher amounts were provided to him by Barclays staff. He says 
the AIPs were incorrect and this was due to errors by Barclays. Mr S says this caused him 
embarrassment and meant he was unable to proceed with two property purchases.
Mr S met with a member of Barclays staff in mid-August 2019. Theres no evidence an AIP 
was issued at that meeting. While Mr S provided a copy of an AIP issued in August, I dont 
think this was provided at or as a result of that meeting as it was issued several days before 
the meeting. 
Barclays stores information about AIPs for 30 days. Mr S raised his concerns about the 
different amounts in the AIPs in May 2020. This was some six months after the last AIP he 
complains about was issued. Due to the time passed, Barclays cant provide evidence of the 
AIPs, who asked for them or input information, or what information was used. I dont make 
any adverse inferences from this.
Barclays has no record of a meeting with Mr S on the dates that AIPs were issued. I think its 
unlikely Mr S met with a mortgage adviser without some record of the meeting. If, as Mr S 
says, the AIPs were issued with the help of a Barclays staff member, I think most likely this 
wasnt a mortgage adviser. The staff member would have input information provided by 
Mr S. 
AIPs are only an indication of what Barclays might lend  they arent an offer to lend. The 
amount given is an indication of what Barclays might lend based on the information provided 
by the customer. The AIPs make this clear. The AIPs say an appointment must be booked to 
start an application, and theres no guarantee Barclays will approve an application. 
Before proceeding with a property purchase, Mr S would have needed to complete a 
mortgage application. This would have involved him meeting with a mortgage adviser and 
Barclays checking evidence of his income and expenditure. Its only after successfully 
completing this process that Barclays would issue a mortgage offer saying what it would 
lend. 
On balance, based on the available evidence, I think its unlikely Barclays was responsible 
for any errors in the AIPs. While Mr S might have been disappointed or embarrassed that he 
couldnt borrow as much as he wanted I dont think this was due to an error by Barclays. And 
as I think its clear that the AIPs are not an offer to lend a certain amount, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for Mr S to rely on an AIP to progress a purchase. 
Mr S is unhappy about the way Barclays dealt with his complaint. As complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity these concerns arent something I can look into.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman