DRN-2577518
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Builders Direct SA wont pay his landlord insurance claim for damage
to his property and for unpaid rent.
What happened
For the purpose of letting out his property Mr G entered into an agreement in June 2018 with
his local authority. This provided for the letting service to find tenants and guaranteed
payment of the rent by the local authority. The purpose of the arrangement was to find
tenants who might otherwise have had difficulty in getting tenancies. At the same time
tenants entered into a 12 month shorthold tenancy. The tenants left the property in late
September 2018. When Mr G inspected the property he found it to be in a poor dilapidated
state, with a lot of the building damaged.
Mr G attempted to agree with the local authority that it would pay for the damage. The
authority wouldnt agree to this, beyond the one month rent bond. It also wouldnt pay any
further rent. Mr G ended the agreement at the beginning of February 2019. Mr G made a
claim to Builders Direct for damage to the property and for unpaid rent under the relevant
term in the policy.
Builders Direct arranged to inspect the property. Mr G had already had the property stripped
out but provided some photos of the damage. It declined the claim, saying that the damage
wasnt malicious (although later pointed out that there was an exclusion in the policy for
damage done deliberately) and that the damage was due to wear and tear and general
misuse of the property. In respect of unpaid rent it said this wasnt applicable as the tenant
had given vacant possession. Mr G also pointed out that the policy provided for payment in
respect of required repairs by the government or local authority to meet new rules and
regulations since the buildings were originally built. Builders Direct wouldnt pay this since it
said this was contingent on it having accepted the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator sad that she didnt think the damage was
malicious and that it didnt come under accidental damage. She said that Builders Direct had
acted reasonably in assessing the damage as wear and tear, so it was excluded under the
policy. With regard to unpaid rent she said this didnt apply after vacant possession was
obtained.
Mr G objected and said that the case hadnt been considered in line with the policy terms,
particularly in respect of the accidental damage cover on the policy. With regard to unpaid
rent he felt that the point of who the tenant was had been missed. He said that the
agent/local authority were the tenants and the occupants of the property sub-tenants. As the
agent had ceased paying rent he believed he was owed unpaid rent and should recover it
under the term in the policy for this.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst I agreed overall that the claim wasnt payable I 
considered the accidental damage cover and the issue of who was the tenant.
Mr G disagreed with my provisional; decision. He said:
The Local Authority is the tenant and the occupants the sub tenants. These titles are 
descriptions provided by the Property Ombudsman guidelines. The tenant is liable to pay 
the outstanding rent which should be paid under the policy terms.
The policy says throughout that the insurer will pay not may pay.
The damages were not the result of gradual deterioration. The property met the local 
authority's guidelines at the start of the tenancy. Therefore, procedurally the listed repairs 
were the requirements needed to return the property to its original rental standards. The 
term in the policy ends with Rent your tenant does not pay because your property 
cannot be lived in because of damages to buildings we agree to pay for. I assume Mr 
Gs argument is that the term in the policy whereby the insurer will pay for repairs to 
comply with government/local authority guidelines isnt therefore contingent on the 
damage itself being accepted by Builders Direct.
Builders Direct has no further comments.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I made the following findings:
claim for damage
I think theres been some confusion about what is and what is not covered under the policy.
This policy here is not one that covers specific perils like storm, flood, fire etc. Instead it
says:
We may pay the cost to repair or rebuild your stolen or damaged buildings.
So any damage is covered unless it is excluded. Accidental damage is an exception to this.
Its normally excluded but is covered because it specifically says so in the policy schedule.
So if something can fairly be described as accidental damage it will be covered..
But malicious damage is not covered, as theres an exclusion for theft or damage caused
deliberately by your tenant and anyone living with or visiting your tenant. Similarly there are
exclusions for misuse, faulty workmanship, design or materials and for damage by wear
and tear or gradual deterioration. If any of those exclusions apply then the damage isnt
covered.
I will consider whether accidental damage applies. This is defined as:
Sudden, unexpected, unintentional physical harm that destroys something, reduces its
value, usefulness or normal function.
Mr G had already substantially stripped out the property before the loss adjusters visit. So
the only evidence Ive seen of the actual damage is in a few photos taken when the damage
was noticed and Mr Gs description of the damage to the loss adjuster. And a list of the work
he has had carried out. I set out here the specific instances of damage shown in the photos,
as reviewed by our investigator:
Front door  a pane of glass is missing, boarded up with cardboard. The door itself is in
poor condition. I doubt whether this was deliberate damage but I think its most likely to
be due to wear and tear. I have no evidence that this was accidental damage.Cupboard door - this has a smashed glass pane. Its most likely that this was deliberate.
Without anything else to tell me otherwise I cant say it was accidental, and it doesnt
appear to be wear and tear.
Holes in the wall. Theres a couple of holes where the paper has been stripped back and
theres a hole in the plaster. It looks like an old lathe and plaster wall and from the photos
looks to be in fairly poor condition. While the tenants may have pulled back the paper it
looks likely that this is simple deterioration.
Window  this has dropped and appears to be off one of its hinges. I think this is most
likely to be due to wear and tear, or possible misuse (which again isnt covered).
Door off hinges  again this looks like wear and tear or tenants misuse. So again isnt
covered.
Writing on walls  Mr G reported that the tenants children had written over the
wallpaper. There are no photos of this, but I think this is likely to come under tenants
misuse so again isnt covered. All the wallpaper had been stripped off when the loss
adjusters attended, and given the condition of the plaster underneath I think it likely that
the wallpaper would have had to be removed as part of general maintenance.
The other photos show the property stripped out and a new bathroom suite installed, so they
dont help with identifying the damage.
The loss adjusters assessed the general damage was due to wear and tear and tenants
misuse. I cant say that was wrong from the evidence Ive seen. Mr Gs claim to the local
authority, and then to Builders Direct, is for complete refurbishment of the entire property. I
cant say that the tenants were responsible for that amount of damage as to require this.
claim for complying with new rules/regulations
Mr G had pointed out that under the policy it says:
We may pay the cost to repair or rebuild your stolen or damaged buildings including:
 ..anything the government or your local authority say you must do after the damage
happens to meet any of their new rules and regulations since your buildings were
originally built.
He says he has had to do substantial work to comply with the government/local authority
requirements. Builders Direct has said it would only make such a payment if the claim is
accepted. And this whole paragraph ends because of damage to buildings we agree to pay
for. Its not immediately clear that that applies to the whole paragraph or to just the last
bullet point relating to tenants loss of rent. But this sort of term is common to home and
landlord insurance and is only intended to be applicable when the claim is accepted, and the
term here says may pay. I think Builders Directs response is reasonable in this respect.
claim for unpaid rent
Mr G seeks payment under the unpaid rent term of the policy, as follows:
If your tenant does not pay the rent
We may pay:
the rent your tenant does not pay
for up to 12 monthsor
until you get vacant possession if this is before the 12 months finishes.
The policy also says the term will not offer protection for any time when your property is not
available to let after you get vacant possession.
Builders Direct has said this term isnt applicable as Mr G had obtained vacant possession,
and the property was only not viable as it was undergoing repairs. The tenants left
voluntarily. Mr Gs argument is that the local authority letting service was the tenant and the
people in possession sub-tenants. As the authority had failed to pay rent after the tenants
left and only paid up to the limit of the tenants bond (one months rent) hes entitled to claim
unpaid rent until he could re-let. He was only able to cancel the agreement between them at
the beginning of February 2019.
The agreement Ive seen is a rent collection service agreement. It describes the local
authority as the agent and the tenant means the tenant of the Property serviced under this
agreement. It provides for guaranteed rent to be paid by the local authority regardless of
whether the tenants pay. But it doesnt confer on the local authority any rights or liabilities as
a tenant. So I think that the tenant described in the policy is the tenant in occupation. As
the tenants moved out and gave vacant possession I dont think the term for unpaid rent
applies. If Mr G lost rent due to the property being refurbished there are other provisions in
the policy to allow for this but again only where Builders Direct has agreed to pay for the
damage.
So overall I dont think that Builders Direct has any liability under the policy for the damage
to Mr Gs property or for unpaid rent and I think it has acted reasonably in this respect.
Firstly with regard to the status of the tenant, I can only repeat that whatever Mr Gs 
understanding of the situation is, the documents do not show the local authority to be the 
tenant. Im aware that a property owner can make arrangements with a local authority to 
lease a property to it, and the local authority will then sub-let the property. I havent seen any 
such arrangement to exist in this case. Ive described the arrangement in my provisional 
findings above. In the event that despite evidence to the contrary, Mr G did let his property to 
the local authority, I still think that the tenant covered for unpaid rent under the policy was 
the tenant in possession.  Under the policy a tenant is defined as:
The person or people you let your property to under an Assured Shorthold Tenancy, Short 
Assured Tenancy, or Assured Tenancy under the Housing Act 1988.
These types of tenancies can only be granted to individuals occupying the dwelling house 
the subject of the tenancy. So whatever arrangement Mr G had with the local authority it 
cant have been an assured tenancy, a short assured tenancy or an assured shorthold 
tenancy.  As the tenant in occupation had left, the policy liability ceased after Mr G obtained 
vacant possession from that tenant. 
In respect of the policy, all the terms I quoted from it were taken directly from the copy policy 
supplied to us by Builders Direct. That uses the phase may pay throughout. I accept that 
this was quoted to Mr G as will pay by the claims handler. I dont think however that it 
makes any difference to the cover in this case.
In respect of the policy term concerning the compliance with Local Authority/government 
guidelines, I quote the whole term here, directly from the policy:
We may pay the cost to repair or rebuild your stolen or damaged buildings includingarchitects, surveyors and consulting engineers fees
clearing the site and making the buildings safe
anything the government or your local authority say you must do after the damage 
happens
to meet any of their new rules and regulations since your buildings were originally built
and
the cost of other similar accommodation for your tenant while your property cannot be 
lived in or
rent your tenant does not pay because your property cannot be lived in
because of damage to buildings we agree to pay for.  
That is exactly how its set out in the policy. And as Ive said, if as I assume the last line is 
intended to refer to the whole of the preceding paragraph rather than just the last bullet 
point, it could be more clearly set out. Although the line doesnt continue as a single 
sentence across the page like the previous lines.
So, could it have been intended that everything in that paragraph is payable under the policy 
if the property is damaged (and damaged isnt specifically defined as damage caused by a 
successful claim)? Even if the policy issued to Mr G says will pay, I still dont think so. All 
those matters would be part of a claim, not stand alone. The items listed are commonly 
payable under this sort of policy but in all cases they would only be payable if the claim itself 
is payable. So I still think that Builders Direct acted reasonably in this respect.
My provisional findings as Ive set out above are now final from part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman