DRN-4454291
The complaint
Mr G complains about commission charges Nationwide Building Society has been collecting 
from him in relation to a stocks and shares ISA. He is unhappy about paying for something 
that he hasnt received a service for. He would like the charges to be refunded. 
What happened
In 2005, Mr G invested in a stocks and shares ISA through Nationwide. The investment 
remained invested for several years and responsibility for administering the product has 
passed between several businesses. 
 
In June 2022, Mr G received a letter form Nationwide explaining he was paying an ongoing 
commission charge for his investment for the services it provided  including for advice. It 
also gave options going forward including the ability to not pay a monthly charge for services 
and instead move to pay as you go service. 
Following this, in July 2022, Mr G contacted Nationwide to raise concerns about the charges 
he was paying on his investment. A meeting was arranged with an adviser but this wasnt 
productive and Mr G was referred to another adviser. After a delay he was contacted by 
phone by another adviser. Mr G requested the relevant information to cancel the commission 
payments. But he didnt receive the relevant forms through the post as he was expecting. 
So, he raised a complaint about both paying for a charge that he didnt know about and the 
problems he hed had in trying to remove the charge. 
Nationwide responded. It explained:
As part of the original sale of Mr Gs investment it was entitled to receive 
commission. The receipt of commission allowed it to provide and maintain a sales 
and advice service, which entitled him to request advice in the future without further 
charge at any time  but not pro-active contact from Nationwide.
It had written to him in 2015, 2016 and 2018 and through these communications it 
was made clear he was paying commission charges. Mr Gs 2020 and 2021 
statements specifically showed the commission for the previous years and these 
payments were for the services that Nationwide had provided. 
It said Mr Gs complaint about paying the charges had been made out of time 
because the investment started more than six years ago, and he would have been 
reasonably aware he had cause for complaint in 2015 (more than three years ago).
Lastly, it acknowledged the more recent service failings Mr G had experienced when 
attempting remove the charge. It apologised and paid him £125 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Mr G remained unhappy, so referred his complaint to this service. During our investigations, 
Mr G clarified that his main concern was in respect of being told commissions payments 
were mandatory but when they later became optional, he wasnt told. He feels he has been 
paying for services that werent required and he wasnt informed that when he could avoid 
the charge. One of our investigators looked into these concerns and made an assessment. 
He was satisfied Mr Gs complaint about Nationwide not notifying him that the trail 
commission service charge was something he could opt out of as of 2019 was made within 
the time limits required. So, he went to look at the merits of this complain, but he didnt 
uphold it. In summary he said:
The regulators retail distribution review (RDR) resulted in changes in the way firms 
provided advice  but advisors could continue to receive commission on products 
sold prior to 1 January 2013. But the RDR rules didnt provide a provision for 
customers to opt out of this.
The FCA released guidance notes for retail customers about trail commissions 
outlining ways in which it could be stopped or reduced indirectly  but no requirement 
was made for firms to contact customers paying trail commission about these 
options.
In May 2019, a new business took over the administration of Mr Gs investment  and 
after this he was now able to switch off the trail commission. He didnt think 
Nationwide was responsible for Mr G not being informed about this. The investigator 
also mentioned regulations that came into force about later in 2019 that required fund 
managers to review the value of funds. 
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he said:
He spoke to the business who currently administers his investment and was informed 
it was the responsibility of Nationwide to inform him that the charge was no longer 
mandatory. 
He was not informed by anyone that the trail commission charge was changed to no 
longer being mandatory. It was unfair to carry on charging a commission without 
informing him, as he was left believing the charge was still mandatory when it wasnt.
In reference to the 2019 regulatory changes that the investigator mentioned, the 
investment administrators terms were in place in place in May 2019 before the rules 
changed in September 2019. So, he couldnt have stopped the mandatory trail 
commission in May 2019 because it wasnt until September 2019 that the rules 
changed the way fund managers had to deal with such things.
Nationwide hasnt met its obligation under the regulatory requirements of the 
Treating Customers Fairly directive.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since making his original complaint, the crux of the complaint and the remaining issue that is 
in dispute relates to how Mr G was informed about the fact the trail commission charge 
changed from being mandatory to optional. So, the focus of my decision will only be on this 
point, although I have noted the overall circumstances of the complaint. 
Nationwide has explained the charge associated with trail commission became optional 
when Mr Gs investment migrated to the new administrator in May 2019. It says prior to this, 
there were no means of having this charge removed whilst the account was with the 
previous administrator. It referred to the terms and conditions of the new administrator that 
say a customer can ask in writing to alter or stop paying the adviser charge. It also says 
Nationwide was not required, under regulation, to inform Mr G of the possibility of removing 
the charge. And information about this wouldve been available to him under the platform 
terms and conditions (as described above). It doesnt accept there has been a breach of any 
regulated activity when applying these charges to the account.
From the evidence I have available, Im satisfied it was only after May 2019, when the 
current administrator acquired the investment on its own platform that it became possible to 
request a stop to the charge. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr G was aware of the 
change in administrator in 2019. Ive noted the information provided about the new administrators terms and conditions 
(T&Cs), which make reference to the ability to cancel the commission charges at any time. 
These say in section 10.4.6 you can: can ask us in writing to alter or stop paying the adviser 
charge. I think it is important to explain that these arent Nationwides T&Cs, but the 
business who now administer the investment.
I understand that Nationwide says it had no requirement to encourage customers such as 
Mr G from being a Nationwide customer or cease their right to advice services. It also says 
paying the commission meant Mr G had access to a variety of services offered by 
Nationwide, which he wouldnt have if he cancelled the commission payment. I accept this is 
a reasonable position to take. Only after the platform migration in 2019 could investors 
choose to switch off the commission, and this severed the relationship with Nationwide, and 
the right to receive future advice or access to Nationwides services.
Ive also taken into account the broader circumstances around the charging of trail 
commission. Nationwide started to receive trail commission as part of the transaction when 
Mr G first invested. Trail commission is a fee paid to the business / financial adviser who 
sold the investment. It usually takes the form of a percentage fee taken from the sum of the 
investment and intended to cover an ongoing service. Within his submissions, Mr G has 
accepted this was a mandatory charge originally. At the time it was legitimate and not 
uncommon for advisors or intermediaries selling investments to be paid in this way and 
commission would form part of a bundle of charges which were deducted from any 
investments sold.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA), the UKs former industry regulator, conducted whats
known as The Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which outlawed trail commission for all new
investments sold following 31 December 2012. But it did not immediately require any
amendments be made to existing arrangements which were subject to trail commission  
such as Mr Gs ISA. There was no regulatory requirement for firms to provide a specific level 
of service in exchange for historic trail commission they receive. In short, investments like 
this one, when they were sold, the firm could take an open-ended annual sum from the 
investment to pay for the initial sale. Thats whats happened here and I see no fair and 
reasonable reason to say Nationwide shouldnt have charged it. 
Ive considered the regulators guidance for consumers about trail commission. This 
indicates it wouldve been for Mr G to either rearrange his investment to remove the 
commission element, or alternatively, to speak to Nationwide about the level of service it was 
providing in exchange for the fee it was collecting. So, on this basis when the charge 
became optional, it still would have been for Mr G to request its removal. I havent seen 
there was a proactive requirement on Nationwide to contact him. I appreciate Mr G has 
argued he wasnt aware of the change to an optional charge, but the fact he didnt request 
the removal until more recently, means I havent found this was as a result of a failing by 
Nationwide. 
During our consideration of the complaint, the investigator referred to regulatory changes 
made in September 2019 - to which Mr G points out these changes happened after the point 
the investigator said the ability to opt out of trail commission for his investment was 
available. The investigator clarified that Mr G was able to opt out of the charge in May 2019, 
when the administrator changed. It appears this reference to regulation has confused 
matters. I dont find this bears relevance to when Mr G was able to opt out of the trail 
commission charge. So, I dont think further consideration of this point is helpful in deciding 
whether Nationwide have failed to do something it should have done. For the reason given 
above, Ive found there wasnt a requirement on Nationwide to tell Mr G the trail commission 
could be opted out of when his investment moved administrators in May 2019. I confirm I have listened to call Mr G had with the current administrator of the investment. I 
note the opinion given in the call was that Nationwide was responsible for informing Mr G 
that the trail commission was no longer mandatory. Ive taken this into account, but it doesnt 
lead me to change my findings. And as Im deciding a complaint about Nationwide, I wont 
be commenting on what another business obligations were. My findings are specific to 
Nationwide and whether I have identified failings by this business.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by this conclusion but I havent found that Nationwide 
has done something wrong in the way it collected charges. This doesnt mean that I 
conclude he was aware the charge had become optional in May 2019, but that I dont find 
Nationwide should have done more to make him aware. In summary, I acknowledge Mr Gs 
overall concerns with the situation, but having given the matter careful consideration, I dont 
require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman