DRN-2368162
The complaint
Miss B complains that First Complete Ltd mis-sold her an income protection policy. 
What happened
Miss B took out an income protection policy in 2018. She received advice from First 
Complete. When she claimed on the policy it paid out less than she expected it to. 
In September 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint. In summary I said that I thought Miss B had been sold a policy which 
was suitable for her demands and needs based on the information that had been recorded 
about her financial circumstances at that time. I asked Miss B and First Complete to let me 
know if they had anything further to add. 
First Complete didnt make any additional comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Miss B made a number of further points. In summary she said: 
She hadnt seen the fact find document I referred to in my decision before 
The information about her credit card payments wasnt correct 
Her outgoings didnt include the mortgage payment  the cover fell short of her 
requirements 
My conclusions were based on the incorrect information in the fact find
The missing call recording would verify Miss Bs version of events. 
So I need to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision First Complete gave Miss B advice about the income 
protection policy. So, they needed to ensure it was right for her. And they also needed to 
give her information which was clear, fair and not mis-leading.  
Ive taken into account all of Miss Bs further comments but Ill only refer to those which I 
think are central to my decision. The further comments havent changed my thoughts about 
the outcome of this complaint. I say that because: 
The purpose of the discussion was to discuss Miss Bs requirement for income 
protection, not her mortgage 
I think it is unlikely that the advisor would have changed information about Miss Bs 
financial and personal circumstances, such as her credit card payments and sick 
pay. It seems more likely that the advisor recorded the information Miss B provided 
during the conversation and that this accurately reflects the information given at that 
time
 
There are no outgoings recorded in the rent/mortgage section. I dont know why that 
is and whether that reflects what Miss B told the advisor. But, in any event, I still dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable. Miss B had a budget of £30 per month 
according to the form. The policy she purchased was £27 per month and the policy 
would pay out £1000 per month  so there was still a contribution of over £200 to any 
other bills which werent recorded on the form. So, Im still not persuaded the advisor 
recommended a policy which was unsuitable for Miss B
Miss B was also sent clear information after the sale took place which set out the 
details of the monthly benefit. So, if she wanted a higher level of cover, she had the 
opportunity to contact First Complete within the cooling off period to change the level 
of cover. Miss B says this placed too high a burden on her as a consumer. But the 
documentation for the policy says that she should read the quote and the plan 
summary. It also explains who she could contact if she wanted to make any changes. 
So, I think Miss B had a fair opportunity to make changes if she didnt think £1000 
per month adequately covered her outgoings at that time. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman