DRN-2799659
The complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mr B three loans as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1 30/05/2019 24/06/2019 6 £200.00 £74.93
2 26/06/2019 02/07/2019 6 £200.00 £70.57
3 24/07/2019 07/08/2020 12 £750.00 £149.02
Mr B said that repaying these loans caused him problems and led to him having to borrow 
more money. 
He believes that a search of his credit file wouldve shown a number of active lenders and 
the number of payday loans wouldve revealed that he was suffering financially at the time. 
Our adjudicator thought that the information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Bs financial 
situation showed he was having problems managing his money and that Mr Lender 
shouldve realised it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay this borrowing. 
She didnt think Mr Lender shouldve given Mr B any of the loans. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps she thought Mr Lender should take to put things right for 
Mr B. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and said that the checks undertaken were 
proportionate, especially bearing in mind the early stage of the lending relationship. 
Mr Lender said its checks didnt reveal adverse information and that the loans were 
comfortably affordable for Mr B after taking into account his income and expenditure. 
Mr Lender said it wouldve been unfair to decline his loan applications based on assumptions 
about his credit spending when its credit checks showed only one short term loan was 
outstanding when it provided each of these loans. 
Mr Lender asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Thinking about loan 1, it appears that the information Mr Lender gathered about Mr Bs 
income and expenditure suggested the loan repayments wouldnt be a problem for Mr B  at 
least when looking at the figures used to assess affordability. 
But Mr Lender also told us that Mr B had said he was repaying £726 towards other short 
term loans.
So I agree with our adjudicator that although it looked like Mr B shouldve had disposable 
income of around £730 even after taking into account his other credit spending, the fact that 
Mr Lender told us it gathered information showing he was spending £726 on other short term lending makes me think that it shouldve enquired more about his use of credit. This was a 
substantial amount of credit expenditure  and a significant proportion (around a third or so) 
of Mr Bs take home pay.
I think this amount of spending on credit looked potentially at odds with what Mr Lender 
might reasonably have expected to see for someone who appeared to have such a high 
disposable income. To my mind, this shouldve alerted Mr Lender to the possibility that Mr B 
was having problems managing his money. 
Mr Lender was aware that different credit searches can show different results  so I think it 
understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show a persons whole credit record.  
I think a responsible lender shouldve been prompted to enquire further into Mr Bs credit 
spending to find out why he needed an expensive short term loan if he had available surplus 
funds of £730 each month. And given the information Mr Lender had gathered, I think it 
shouldnt have loaned to Mr B without a more thorough check of his circumstances.
If Mr Lender had made more searching enquiries I think its likely it wouldve found out that 
Mr B was regularly using payday lenders. Information Ive seen suggests that in the five 
weeks or so before applying for this loan he had repaid at least one high cost loan and he 
had taken out at least two new loans with other providers of high cost credit. It is also 
apparent that by the time Mr B applied for loan 1 with Mr Lender, he had been a regular user 
of high cost credit for some time  calling into question whether he was really using short 
term lending for its intended purpose of helping to manage a short term or temporary cash 
flow problem.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully into account that Mr Lender said it looked like 
Mr B had just one payday loan outstanding and it wouldve been unfair to decline Mr Bs loan 
application if his credit spending had been on mainstream credit items. But that doesnt 
seem to be what Mr Lenders additional notes for loan 1 say. 
And even if it was unclear what all his credit spending was on this would make no difference 
to my overall view that his high monthly repayment amount on credit should have prompted 
further enquiry - and I cant see that Mr Lender did this.  
If Mr Lender had done proportionate checking it wouldve realised that Mr B was regularly 
using short term loans  and there was an indication that he had become over-reliant on this 
sort of expensive credit and was using it to supplement his income. 
So I think Mr Lender shouldve realised when he asked for loan 1 that any further lending 
was unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided any of the loans to Mr B.
Mr Lender told us that when Mr B applied for another loan two months after settling his 3rd 
loan, it declined that application when it saw that he had incurred a default within 12 months 
on a previous short term loan. But this doesnt mean that the loans it did provide were 
sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about all three loans.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere.
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender should do the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1, 2 and 3, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Bs credit file for 
loans 1, 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the steps 
set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman