DRN-4319731
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy a claim made under his furniture warranty has been declined by Amtrust 
Europe Limited (Amtrust).
What happened
Mr S purchased a sofa and, alongside it, a five-year furniture warranty underwritten by 
Amtrust.
In October 2022 Mr S contacted Amtrust to make a claim for scratches, colour changes, 
thinning of leather and visible dots on his sofa.
Amtrust arranged for a technician to attend who concluded the damage was as a result of 
gradual wear and tear. Amtrust subsequently declined Mr S claim.
Mr S was unhappy with the claim decision and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
he was satisfied Amtrust had fairly declined the claim based on the policy exclusions. So, he 
didnt recommend Amtrust do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree, and the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as disappointment to Mr S, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator.
Mr S has mentioned that he is unhappy with the quality of the sofa, as it is different to what 
he was shown in store, the sale of it, and how long it took for delivery. However, this isnt the 
responsibility of Amtrust as they didnt manufacture the sofa, sell or deliver it. They are only 
responsible for the warranty Mr S purchased alongside the sofa. As advised by our 
investigator, if Mr S is unhappy with the original retailer who sold the sofa, then hed need to 
contact them directly about this.
Mr S also said the warranty was mis-sold but hasnt provided reasons why beyond his claim 
being declined, and he thinks it should be covered as the warranty was expensive. Ill be 
considering Amtrusts claim decision here. Ill also add that as the sale would have been face 
to face, there will be limited details of this. But like all policies of this nature, Mr S warranty 
has terms and conditions outlining the cover and exclusions and doesnt cover anything and 
everything that could happen. Ill also be considering whether Amtrust has acted fairly and in 
line with these policy terms when declining Mr S claim. 
Mr S reported a claim for scratches, colour changes, thinning of leather and visible dots on 
his sofa in October 2022. He said the damage was first noticed in April 2021, some 
considerable time before. But he was awaiting contact from the retailer before he 
approached Amtrust.
When Mr S then approached Amtrust, a technician was appointed who inspected the sofa. 
They concluded:
On inspection I found that the corner unit left hand facing and seat that is joined on 
to seat also right hand facing side recliner fitted seats hide is very discoloured and 
lots of clothing stains slight cracking to non middle fitted seat over hide is very worn 
and Colour very discoloured
Having considered the images provided, alongside the comments from the technician, I dont 
think they reached an unreasonable conclusion that it is wear and tear, and gradual damage 
caused over time. I think the images support that, rather than a single one-off incident of 
damage or staining has occurred. 
The policy isnt designed to cover damage which occurs gradually, and instead covers 
one-off incidents of damage as outlined in the terms:
Important  The intention of the cover
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental 
staining and accidental damage and, if Sofacare Plus was purchased, damage to 
recliner and headrest mechanisms. The meaning of the terms are explained below. 
Please make sure you read the exclusions explained in Section 4.
The Plan does not provide cover for damage that naturally occurs due to normal use 
and ageing or for your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over 
time.
The policy then goes on to outline the specific exclusions. And it includes the following 
exclusion which Amtrust has relied on when declining Mr S claim:
SECTION 4  WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Your product is not covered for:

6. Any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product 
becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
As Im persuaded the technician reached a reasonable conclusion that the damage occurred 
gradually and due to wear and tear over time, I dont think Amtrust has acted unreasonably 
by declining Mr S claim based on the exclusion outlined above.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman