DRN-4138875
The complaint
Mrs Ss representative has complained, on her behalf, about the advice she received from 
TMS Financial Solutions Limited to transfer defined pension benefits from her occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  in order to invest in 
commercial property.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mrs S had deferred pension benefits in a defined benefit occupational pension scheme from 
a previous employment. Shed accrued eight years membership in that scheme, from 1989 
to 1997. 
In December 2008, Mrs S set up a limited company and, in July 2009, she requested a 
transfer value quotation from her DB scheme provider. This was provided, with a value of 
around £35,000.
Following this, Mrs S sought the advice of a financial adviser to discuss her retirement 
planning needs. This is what led her to meeting with an adviser from TMS in October 2009.
TMS completed a fact-finding exercise to establish Mrs Ss circumstances and financial
objectives. An assessment of Mrs Ss attitude towards risk determined her risk appetite as 
being medium. 
The investigator set out his understanding of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time as follows: 
She was 46 years old, married, in good health and had no financial dependants.
She was working part-time for a building society, whilst building her own business as 
a beauty therapist.
She owned a shop, which was at the time being rented out.
She also had a small personal pension plan with Hargreaves Lansdown.
TMS issued two suitability reports. The first was produced on 26 January 2010. TMS said 
that it didnt favour the proposed transfer, but as it considered that Mrs S was determined to 
undertake the transfer, it recommended a two-part transaction. TMS said Mrs S should 
transfer her funds to a pension account with Cofunds. Mrs S was keen to buy a residential 
property, and so when she was ready to do so, she would transfer her funds to a SIPP with 
Suffolk Life, and the SIPP would then buy her commercial property  thereby freeing up 
funds to invest in the residential property.
A revised suitability report was issued on 16 April 2010 as Mrs S was keen to complete the 
purchase of her property sooner rather than later. In light of this, TMS recommended Mrs S 
transfer her funds directly to Suffolk Life, so she could buy her property.
The suitability reports noted Mrs S had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its 
reason for recommending the transfer:
1. Using her pension fund to purchase her own commercial property.
2. Control access to the content of her pension before and after her normal retirement 
date and be flexible with her retirement dates.
3. Transfer the funds from her OPS in order to secure these under her own scheme.
4. Keep her pension funds separate from her partners - and he would use his to 
purchase property under his own SIPP.
Mrs S accepted TMS revised recommendation and the transfer took place shortly
afterwards. The money was to remain in the deposit account until specific investment
instructions were provided. The purchase of the commercial property by the SIPP then 
completed on 23 February 2011.
TMS charged £150 per hour for financial advice, and £50 per hour for administration work.
However, the charge for the work involved with the transfer was capped at £500.
On 4 August 2022, Mrs Ss representative complained to TMS on her behalf. It raised 
concerns that the advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
She had a low attitude towards risk and low capacity for loss.
She wasnt an experienced or informed investor.
She wasnt well placed to understand or take the risks associated with giving up 
valuable guaranteed benefits.
She wasnt informed of the implications in making a high-risk investment that didnt 
carry protection from the FCA.
Succession Wealth, which had recently acquired TMS, responded to Mrs Ss complaint on 
10 February 2023, but didnt uphold it. To summarise, it said that it was clear that Mrs S had 
been considering transferring away from her OPS long before she engaged with TMS, and 
that she was determined to transfer and had clear reasons for doing so. 
It further said that she was fully aware of the risks and consequences of completing the 
transfer. It added that it had been clear to the TMS adviser that transferring wouldnt be 
advantageous, but given Mrs Ss objectives and determination to achieve those objectives, 
he had made a recommendation in Mrs Ss best interests. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs S referred her complaint to our service through her 
representative. 
On 3 March 2023, the liquidators for TMS, Interpath LLP, responded to Mrs Ss complaint. It 
reiterated what Succession Wealth had said. On 24 March 2023, Interpath LLP confirmed 
that it would only move to closure once all active claims and creditors were settled, meaning 
this complaint could be considered.
Our investigator assessed the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the 
following in summary:Overall, he wasnt persuaded that the advice to transfer was suitable, but he 
considered that, had TMS advised against the transfer, Mrs S would have sought 
assistance with the transfer elsewhere.
TMS hadnt been able to evidence the fact finding process which would have 
preceded the suitability reports, but the defined benefits accrued in the OPS would 
have offered a guaranteed income for life and would have formed a valuable part of 
Mrs Ss overall pension provision.
Mrs Ss representative had said that she had a low capacity for loss, which meant 
that the guaranteed benefits of the OPS would have been very important to her. They 
would have been accrued then paid with no risk to her.
The regulator had said that the starting point for the consideration of such a transfer 
should be an assumption that the transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could be 
clearly demonstrated that it was in a clients best interests.
In terms of financial viability, the critical yield required to match the OPS benefits at 
retirement was quoted as being 9.3% pa, and the discount rate, or in other words 
the growth rate which was deemed achievable at the time for the 12 years Mrs S had 
left to retirement according to the loss assessment methodology published by this 
service, was 6.2% pa. 
The regulators growth assumptions at the time were a higher rate projection of 9% 
pa, a mid rate projection of 7% pa and a lower rate projection of 5% pa.
Having considered these factors, along with composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mrs Ss attitude to risk, and the term to retirement, the investigator thought that 
she was likely to receive benefits of lower overall value than from the OPS at 
retirement, as a result of transferring and buying the commercial property through her 
SIPP.
From a financial perspective, the transfer didnt therefore appear to be in Mrs Ss 
best interests.
But the suitability report recorded that TMs was only advising Mrs S as she seemed 
determined to transfer. And so the investigator considered other reasons for 
transferring and their suitability.
Mrs Ss top priority was to buy her shop from herself, and the declaration signed by 
Mrs S on 28 January 2010 had eight detailed bullet points which set out the risks of 
transferring and that she was aware of the loss of the guaranteed benefits which 
would result from the transfer  but that she nevertheless wished to go ahead.
Mrs S had also requested the transfer value quotation before any involvement from 
TMS  issued on 28 July 2009. And Mrs S had also already set up a property 
management company on 19 December 2008.
Mrs Ss partner had over 40 years experience in the commercial property sector and, 
at the time, was a department lead for a property consultancy business. It was 
reasonable to conclude that he would have been aware of the risks involved in such 
a transaction.Although Mrs S had said that family members would have been willing to lend her 
money to buy the intended property, and so there was no need for her to transfer her 
OPS benefits, there was the following email from Mrs Ss partner to TMS on 27 
February 2010:
we now need to move very quickly on the above as we wish to buy our shop in 
[location] in [Mrs Ss] SIPP to release £70K odd to purchase a residential property in 
[location] at £164,950 with the SIPP drawdown of £42K with a loan of £64K from [Mrs 
Ss] Dad. We need the [OPS] pension money in her property SIPP ready to do this 
asap
And a follow up email on 1 March 2010 from Mrs Ss partner to TMS as follows:
We need to speed up on this. Our lawyerwants the name of [Mrs Ss] SIPP and its 
acc number asapPlease can you confirm it is all done and completed as a property 
SIPP. We have had our offer accepted on the flat in [location] as long as we 
complete by 31 March 2010 as it is the only flat left
This, the investigator said, both demonstrated the urgency of the situation and that, 
whilst Mrs S could rely upon her family for some of the required amount, this wouldnt 
have been for the whole amount. 
The investigator considered that there were clear indications that Mrs S had decided 
to proceed with the transfer for the commercial property purchase  which completed 
on 23 February 2011.
He agreed that the objective wouldnt have justified the transfer from a suitability 
perspective. He also took into account the comment from Mrs Ss representative that 
she had equity in another property of around £308,000 which could have been used 
to buy the second property instead of transferring her OPS benefits.
But whilst he appreciated that this is something which could have been explored at 
the time, it could only look at the advice TMS had given, and what would then have 
happened if it had advised against the transfer.
There was no regulatory advice or guidance at the time relating to insistent clients, 
but the COBS rules within the regulators handbook nevertheless required TMS to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interest of its 
client. COBS also required TMS to provide information to Mrs S that was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Therefore, if TMS had advised against transferring the OPS benefits, Mrs S needed 
to have understood the consequences of acting contrary to that recommendation.
The investigator considered that the declaration signed by Mrs S on 28 January 2010 
was confirmation that she was aware that transferring the benefits carried risks. And 
he could see no reason why Mrs S wouldnt have signed the same declaration had 
TMS advised against transferring, especially given the communication with Mrs S on 
16 February 2010 in which TMS said that its financial adviser was against 
transferring the OPS benefits, and that the transfer value analysis reports were in 
support of this position.Overall, based upon Mrs Ss own actions, her partners position and experience in 
the commercial property business, the awareness of the risks involved, and his 
significant involvement in the transfer, the investigator was satisfied that, even if TMS 
had advised against transferring, Mrs S would likely have still proceeded on what 
was now known as the insistent client basis. And had that not been possible with 
TMS, then he thought that she would have processed the transfer through another 
financial adviser to facilitate the commercial property purchase.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Mrs S wasnt working for a building society at the time  she was solely working as a 
beauty therapist. Further, the limited company which Mrs S had set up wasnt a 
property company  her husband had intended to set up a business which didnt end 
up moving forward.
Further, whilst Mrs S had originally planned to buy a shop, this didnt go ahead. She 
also didnt borrow any money from her father, but had confirmed that he was willing 
to lend her the money if required. And Mrs S had savings and equity in her property.
The investigator had said that he could only consider the advice given by TMS, but 
this was the vital aspect of Mrs Ss complaint. It should have explored other ways of 
meeting Mrs Ss objective instead of focussing on the pension transfer. It wasnt 
necessary, as she had other ways of raising cash.
The investigator had himself noted that the transfer wasnt justified by the stated 
objective as it exposed her pension provision to higher risk than she was willing to 
take. Mrs S lost out on valuable guaranteed OPS benefits and the transfer didnt 
match her attitude to risk. It therefore wasnt suitable.
With regard to the investigators comments about Mrs Ss husband, he was a 
property surveyor and didnt have experience with SIPPs, pensions, defined benefits 
schemes, or investments within a SIPP. He didnt know how a SIPP worked or the 
risks associated with them. He also didnt understand the loss which Mrs S would 
face as a result of the transfer.
It was in any case Mrs Ss understanding of the transfer which should have been at 
the heart of the advice. And Mrs S had confirmed that, had she been made aware of 
the risks involved with the transfer, she wouldnt have proceeded with it.
Mrs S trusted TMS to provide her with advice relating to her pension and retirement 
planning, regardless of her own intentions or plans prior to receiving the advice. It 
had a duty to ensure that Mrs S was fully informed of the implications of transferring 
her OPS benefits.
The investigator considered the points raised and responded as follows:
The record of Mrs S working for a building society derived of the initial suitability 
report.
With regard to the company set up by Mrs S, this had been done in her sole name 
and her husband wasnt registered as a director or a company officer. If it wasnt a 
property management company, the investigator enquired as to its purpose.The investigator further said that the documentation issued by the SIPP provider 
evidenced that the commercial property purchase had completed  and so he was 
unsure as to why Mrs Ss representative had asserted that it hadnt.
Although the representative had said that TMS hadnt explored other options such as 
using Mrs Ss savings or remortgaging, the investigator noted that Mrs S had 
requested the transfer value quotation before engaging TMSs services, and it was 
unlikely that she would have done so without first exploring other alternatives.
The investigator maintained his view that there were strong indications that, although 
the transfer may have been unsuitable, Mrs S would in any case have proceeded. 
And that, although Mrs Ss husband may not have been experienced in pension 
matters, his knowledge and experience with commercial property would likely have 
played an important role in Mrs Ss decision making.
The investigator concluded that, although with the benefit of hindsight Mrs S may have 
regretted the decision to transfer her OPS benefits, his view on the matter remained the 
same.
But he said that, as agreement hadnt been reached on the matter, he would refer it to an 
ombudsman for review.
Mrs Ss representative submitted further comments as follows:
Mrs S had confirmed that the company was set up as her husband was intending to 
set up a business to work on a self employed basis, but this didnt ultimately happen.
Mrs S had also confirmed that the intended property purchase didnt proceed, and 
that it would request evidence of this and send it to the investigator.
It maintained that, although Mrs Ss husband would have had input on the matter, 
Mrs S had approached TMS for sound advice and the recommendation to transfer 
her OPS benefits hadnt been suitable.
The investigator and the representative then clarified that the property which hadnt been 
purchased was the residential property  not the initial commercial property which had been 
bought by the SIPP.
As notified by the investigator, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Addressing firstly the discrepancies noted by Mrs Ss representative, I acknowledge the 
comment relating to Mrs S not being employed by the building society, but this was what 
was recorded at the time, and if this wasnt the case, then I think it might reasonably be 
expected that Mrs S would have corrected this. And I think the comment about Mrs Ss 
limited company not being a property company sheds little light on its actual purpose  for 
example, if it was Mrs Ss husband who intended on setting up a business, no explanation 
has been offered as to why he didnt set up a limited company for himself.
I take the point about Mrs Ss husband not having experience of pension matters, being a property surveyor, but I think the comment about him having no experience of investment 
within SIPPs, or an understanding of the risks involved with a SIPP, is somewhat 
undermined by the actual investment which was to be held within this SIPP  commercial 
property. I think its fair to say that he was likely to have had some experience with that type 
of investment. 
But Mrs Ss representative is right in saying that TMS still had a duty to provide suitable 
advice. And so, as with the investigator, Ive firstly considered the recommendation to 
transfer and whether this could reasonably be said to constitute suitable advice.
From a financial viability perspective, I think theres little disagreement relating to this 
between the investigator and Mrs Ss representative. And I also agree  I think the critical 
yield simply to match the ceding scheme benefits was higher than the likely growth rate 
which would have been achieved according to Mrs Ss medium risk rating (and was in fact 
higher than the top rate of projected growth assumed achievable by the regulator at the 
time), and so I think its unlikely that the benefits in terms of income would have been 
matched, let alone improved upon, by the transfer.
And other than the commercial property purchase, there appear to be no other requirements 
or objectives which needed to be met from the transfer, such as ill health and a requirement 
to format death benefits in a different way to that offered by the scheme. I note that flexibility 
was recorded as an objective, but there was no accompanying narrative as to why such 
flexibility would have been so important to Mrs S as to justify the transfer and the loss of 
guaranteed benefits.
And so, from a straightforward suitability perspective  and again, as I think is agreed by 
both the investigator and Mrs Ss representative, the transfer wasnt suitable. And I agree 
that TMS should have advised against it.
But as also commented upon by the investigator, there are additional considerations here, 
not least of which is how Mrs S was likely to have acted had TMS specifically advised 
against it and /or declined to transact the business  or, as I address further below, explored 
other options for achieving her objective.
Mrs Ss understanding of the risks involved
In my consideration of this aspect, Ive firstly noted the letter of 28 January 2010, which Mrs 
S signed to confirm her understanding of the risks of transferring her OPS benefits. The 
letter was seemingly prepared by TMS rather than being in Mrs Ss own words or 
handwriting, but as also noted by the investigator, the transfer predated the regulators 
guidance on such documents being conveyed in the clients own words. Im also satisfied 
that the letter explained the risks and possible losses which might be associated with the 
transfer in clear and understandable terms.
I think it would be useful to set out the content of that letter: 
This letter it to confirm that having read the above suitability report I am aware of the 
possible losses of the benefit incurred. These include the following:
if you do not spread your retirement savings over a range of pension schemes you 
run the risk that if the scheme fails to mature in the way you expect, you have no 
separate options on which to fall back
leaving a defined benefit scheme, unless you are transferring to another defined 
benefit scheme, means giving up a guaranteed amount of pension on retirement.
joining a money purchase scheme means risking your retirement income on the inconsistencies of the economy, and hoping for favourable conditions when you buy 
your annuity
you may have to pay fees when you decide to leave your existing scheme, and pay 
higher administration fees with your new scheme
you will be giving up any guaranteed benefits that your old scheme offered you on 
retirement
you may be offered a relatively small transferable pension fund, and run the risk that 
it will not grow sufficiently to provide you with the retirement income you want
your invested pension fund may suffer losses if there is a stock-market crash and 
your investment portfolio was a high risk one
you may not be able to find a new scheme that will offer you the same benefits that 
your old scheme could, and lose retirement income
I have considered all of the above points and confirm that I still want to transfer the benefits 
from my [name of OPS] scheme to a SIPP.
This was therefore a detailed list of the risks of transferring, several of which alluded 
specifically to the loss of guaranteed benefits within the OPS. And this wasnt simply an 
explanation of risks which might otherwise appear in the middle or at the end of a suitability 
report, and so might arguably be lost in the wider content of such a report. This was a 
specific and dedicated separate letter intended to unambiguously demonstrate that Mrs S 
was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware of the risks involved in the transfer.
Other means of achieving the objective
However, notwithstanding Mrs Ss understanding of the risks, when she sought advice from 
TMS, it did still need to provide suitable advice - and explore other potential options for Mrs 
S to be able to achieve her objective. 
That objective was clearly very firm, evidenced by the comments in the suitability reports and 
the emails sent to TMS by Mrs Ss husband. Ive noted the comment that the purchase of the 
residential property didnt ultimately proceed, but I think there can be little doubt that this was 
nevertheless the firm intention at the time, and there was also a distinct sense of urgency 
around it.
And so I also need to consider other options which might have been open to Mrs S to 
achieve that objective.
Its difficult to know what was known about Mrs Ss other assets or savings at the time as the 
fact finding is absent, but I think its unlikely that Mrs S had sufficient savings if she needed 
to borrow from her father for much of the cost of the residential property purchase. And 
although Mrs S may have had a lot of equity in another property, she would of course have 
needed to borrow more money against that property, rather than diverting resources from 
another available asset.
I do nevertheless agree with Mrs Ss representative that this is something which ought to 
have been explored. 
Would advice to not transfer or a recommendation to remortgage have made a difference to 
the outcome?
But I then need to think about Mrs Ss likely decision even if the possibility of remortgaging 
had been set out as an option. This isnt straightforward to determine, and its clearly 
impossible to know with certainty what Mrs S would have done. But there are several factors 
which I think are indicative of Mrs S, on balance, more likely than not still choosing to transfer her OPS benefits.
Firstly, Mrs S and her husband, who was employed in the property sector, would have been 
well aware that she had significant equity in the other property, but Mrs S had, before the 
involvement of TMS, requested a transfer value quote from her OPS administrators. I think 
this suggests an awareness of the options which preceded any advice given by TMS, and 
that Mrs S was, at the very least, interested in the option of using her OPS benefits to buy 
her commercial property over and above that of mortgaging and taking on more debt. 
And so I dont think the available evidence supports the position that, had TMS 
recommended that Mrs S investigate the remortgaging option, she would have done so.
Ive then thought about Mrs Ss likely actions had TMS simply recommended that she not 
transfer. Id note in that regard that theres persuasive evidence that the adviser informed 
Mrs S that he wasnt in favour of the transfer. The following is an extract from the letter sent 
to Mrs S by TMS on 16 February 2010, in which it enclosed a number of documents, 
including the transfer value analysis and illustrations of future potential pension benefits:
As you are aware, [adviser] advised against transferring this pension, and enclosures 1 and 
2 are in support of this position.
Enclosure 4 is provided in view of your decision to transfer
I think this supports the position that a conversation around the merits of transferring OPS 
defined benefits took place, even if the detail of this wasnt set out in the suitability report.
So I think its fair to say that, although not encompassed within the body of the suitability 
report itself, there was enough detail about both the risk of transferring  as evidenced by 
the letter of 28 January 2010 - and the advisers noted aversion to it, for Mrs S to have been 
in little doubt as to the ramifications of transferring.
Further, the second suitability report, which followed Mrs Ss confirmation that she wished to 
transfer straight into the SIPP to expedite the commercial property purchase, said the 
following:
You are still determined to switch away from [OPS name] and I have modified my 
recommendation based on your immediate property choices (post my report of 26th 
January). All the same caveats apply regarding the move away from the Final Salary 
arrangement.
I think its arguable that the determination referred to above related more to the objective of 
investing in further property  I dont think transferring away from the OPS was an objective 
in itself, but more a means to an end.
But when weighing up what Mrs S would, or should, have known about the consequences of 
transferring her OPS benefits, along with her determination to achieve her objective and the 
absence of a realistic or palatable alternative to do so, my view is that she would more likely 
than not have still opted to transfer her OPS benefits to achieve that objective.
I therefore think that its more likely than not that, even if the advisers aversion to the 
transfer had specifically been included in the suitability report itself, or that the actual 
recommendation had been to not transfer, Mrs S would still have proceeded with the 
transfer, either through TMS on an insistent client basis, or through another firm.
SummaryAs Ive said above, my view is aligned to that of the investigator and Mrs Ss representative 
in that I dont think the transfer was a suitable course of action, given the valuable 
guaranteed benefits which Mrs S would be relinquishing.
But I have also needed to consider Mrs S recorded determination  as recorded in the 
suitability report and also illustrated by the emails at the time - to quickly achieve her 
objective of releasing funds from her pension arrangements to buy a residential property. 
And my overall view is that, even if TMS had recommended investigating the possibility of 
remortgaging on another property to raise the funds, or had simply recommended against 
transferring, Mrs S would nevertheless had proceed by another route.
For the reasons given, therefore, on the basis of a fair and reasonable assessment of the 
circumstances of the complaint, my view is that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
In closing, and whilst this has no bearing on the merits-based outcome of the complaint, I 
have also noted the figures provided by Mrs Ss representative in its letter of complaint to 
TMS of August 2022. It said that the current value of Mrs Ss SIPP was around £94,000, 
whereas it considered that Mrs Ss OPS benefits would be worth around £83,000. I think it 
may therefore be the case that Mrs S hasnt suffered a financial loss here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman