DRN-4241203
The complaint
Ms S complaint is about the information Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires (BoS) recorded on her credit file about one of the mortgages she has with it. She 
is unhappy that the payment for January 2023 was recorded as missed. Ms S said the 
missed payment on her credit file had caused her significant financial detriment as it 
prevented her from changing lenders on this or another mortgage she holds, or securing 
another interest rate product for the mortgage
What happened
Ms S has a buy-to-let mortgage with BoS, which she arranged in 2017. The mortgage 
payment that was due to be made on 19 January 2023 wasnt paid  the direct debit failed. 
Ms S called BoS on that day and was told that the payment had to be made within the 
calendar month for it not to be reported as missed on her credit file. 
BoS system automatically represented the payment request under the direct debit mandate 
when the first attempt bounced. The payment was collected, and it cleared onto Ms S 
mortgage on 2 February 2023. As such, BoS recorded that the January 2023 payment had 
been missed.
Ms S told BoS shortly afterwards that she had tried to make the payment manually but had 
been unable to do so. This was because the payment had been requested under the direct 
debit mandate, and so those funds were reserved in her account. Ms S complained about 
the payment having been recorded as missed on her credit file.
BoS responded to Ms S complaint in its letter of 8 March 2023. It set out what had 
happened and confirmed that it had been right to record the payment as missed, because it 
hadnt been paid in the calendar month it was due. The complaint was rejected.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with BoS response and asked us to look into her complaint. When she 
did, she raised a new issue about having been unable to attach a new interest rate product 
to her mortgage.
One of our Investigators upheld the complaint. Ultimately, he considered that while 
technically the payment had been made late, he was persuaded this was only because BoS 
had made a second payment request under the direct debit mandate that prevented Ms S 
from making a manual payment in time. The investigator recommended that BoS remove the 
missed payment marker for January 2023. He also informed Ms S that she needed to raise a 
new complaint point about accessing interest rate products with BoS.
BoS accepted the investigators conclusion and confirmed that it had actioned the change to 
the credit file reporting data. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said she was in significant financial 
difficulties because of the late payment markers recorded on this mortgage in 2021 and 
2023. This was because she had been unable to refinance her residential mortgage to repay 
her bridging loans and obtain a better rate of interest for that and her other mortgages. She 
did not consider that BoS actions had been fair. 
In relation to Ms S comments regarding her financial loss, the investigator noted that Ms S 
had told him that she had been offered a new interest rate product on her BoS mortgage. 
She had decided not to accept the product. As such, the investigator was not persuaded 
Ms S took reasonable actions to mitigate any potential losses and so he couldnt ask BoS to 
do anything further.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She reiterated her thoughts that late 
payment markers BoS had registered against her (not just the one in question on this case) 
had caused her financial difficulties. This had meant she could not repay the first of her 
bridging loans when its term expired and was being threatened with repossession of her 
home. It had also meant shed been unable to make the payments to the mortgage involved 
in this case. Ms S asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
This complaint is about a specific missed payment marker in January 2023. Our investigator 
was persuaded this payment wouldnt have been made late had Ms S been able to make a 
manual payment, but she was prevented from doing so due to the second collection through 
the direct debit mandate. Having reviewed the evidence, I am in agreement with our 
investigator on this point. I am pleased to see that BoS accepted the investigators 
conclusions and has already removed the late payment marker from Ms S credit file. As 
such, there is nothing further that needs to be said on this matter.
The outstanding issues are the losses that Ms S has attributed to the January 2023 missed 
payment marker in combination with some earlier ones applied by BoS in relation to the 
same mortgage. 
Ms S has provided evidence that there were credit checks completed by lenders in 
February 2023. She has told us she was declined for borrowing and I see no reason to 
disbelieve that was the case. However, Ms S hasnt provided any supporting evidence from 
any of the lenders involved to show that her credit file profile was the reason she was 
declined for borrowing. 
Even if Ms S were able to provide supporting evidence from the lenders that the sole reason 
borrowing was declined was her credit file profile, that would still not be enough. I say this as 
the cause would need to be the specific records on this particular mortgage that caused her 
applications to fail. This seems unlikely as I am aware that in 2020 and separately in 2021 
Ms S missed payments on another buy-to-let mortgage she has with BoS. While I am aware 
that she complained about a missed payment marker for December 2021 on that account, 
she appears to have accepted that it was correctly applied, given she didnt refer her 
complaint to this service within the six-month window she had to do so.
As such, overall, I am not persuaded that the missed payment marker being unfairly 
attached to her credit file for January 2023 was the cause of Ms S financial difficulties and 
potential losses.
BoS acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing more to 
add.
Ms S said she was disappointed with my conclusions as she believed she had provided all 
necessary documents to support her complaint and the impact of BoS actions. She reiterated some of the events that had occurred and her view of those events. Ms S asked 
that we tell BoS to remove all of the late payment markers attached to her credit file for the 
period January to June 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything Ms S has said. In addition, I have reviewed the file again in its 
entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I am still of the opinion 
that this complaint should only be upheld in part. I remain satisfied that the January 2023 
missed payment marker was unfairly reported on Ms S credit file, but I remain unpersuaded 
it was the cause of her financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. However, as Bank of Scotland plc has 
already completed the actions needed to remove the missed payment marker for the 
January 2023 payment from Ms S credit file, I dont intend to require it to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman