DRN-4343799
Complaint
Miss B complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with her. 
Shes said she doesnt think that enough checks were carried out to establish that the 
payments to the agreement were affordable for her. 
Background
In July 2020, Moneyway provided Miss B with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £14,990.00 and Miss B paid a deposit of £1,200.00 which came about as a 
result of her part exchanging the vehicle she already had. Miss B applied for a hire-purchase 
loan to cover the remaining £13,790.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £7,490.60 (comprising of interest of 
£7,480.60 and an option to purchase fee of £10), and the total amount to be repaid of 
£23,280.60 (minus Miss Bs deposit of £1,200.00) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of £354.51 and one final payment of £364.51. 
In July 2022, Miss B complained that the payments to this hire purchase agreement were 
unaffordable and so the finance should never have been provided to her. Moneyway looked 
at the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the checks completed before 
the agreement was entered into confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was 
reasonable to lend. 
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneyway had done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. Miss B disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneyway needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that Moneyway needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss B could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneyway carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneyway says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss B. During this assessment, Miss B provided details of her monthly 
income and payslips to verify what shed declared. 
Moneyway says it also carried out credit searches on Miss B which showed some 
outstanding balances. But when the amount Miss B already owed plus a reasonable amount 
for Miss Bs living expenses were deducted from her monthly income the monthly payments 
were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss B says that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss B and Moneyway have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Moneyway gathered a significant amount of information 
from Miss B and didnt simply rely on what she said about her income and expenditure. And 
having looked at the information gathered, I dont think that there was anything in it that 
would indicate Miss B wasnt in a position to make the payments she was committing to.  
I accept that the credit checks carried out did show that Miss B had had previous difficulties 
with credit in the form of defaulted accounts. However, the accounts were defaulted more 
than six years before this loan and the balances had been settled around five years before 
this application. Furthermore, Miss B had since taken out credit and this was being 
maintained well.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that the information obtained does appear to show that 
when Miss Bs committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from her monthly income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, 
to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. And in these circumstances 
it wasnt unreasonable to proceed with the application. 
  
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Moneyway carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and there wasnt anything in the information gathered that ought 
reasonably to have stopped it from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement 
with Miss B. 
Ive also thought about what Miss B has said about the amount of interest charged on this 
agreement. However, Ive looked at the agreement Miss B signed and it does set out the 
amount being lent, the total amount of interest and the monthly payments Miss B would have 
to make. 
As the agreement was signed by Miss B, I can only assume that she was happy to proceed 
on the terms set out. And I cant agree that Miss B wasnt informed of the interest she had to 
pay or that Moneyway needs to take any action in relation to this matter at this stage.
Overall, Im satisfied that Moneyway didnt act unfairly towards Miss B when it agreed to 
provide the funds and Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman