DRN-4063147
The complaint
Mr O complained about the problems he had in contacting Revolut Ltd when there were 
fraudulent transactions on his account. He was also unhappy because Revolut took a long 
time to resolve his complaint.
What happened
On 18 August 2022, Mr O was on holiday abroad with his family. He received messages on 
his Revolut app, about payments being made from his account which he hadnt authorised. 
He tried to contact Revolut, but the app said his number wasnt recognised, and all the 
Revolut website numbers he could find just directed him back to the app. Mr O contacted the 
local police, and emailed Revolut.
Mr O had transferred money into his Revolut account before going on holiday, and on 21 
August he discovered that the bank account from which hed sent the transfer had also been 
fraudulently accessed. He contacted his other bank, still from abroad, and that bank blocked 
his card with them to avoid further theft. But Mr O still couldnt get through to Revolut.
A number of phone appointments were set up between Revolut and Mr O.  Mr O provided a 
detailed list of these appointments, some of which were in the middle of the night at the local 
time for the place where he was on holiday. He said that the booked calls didnt come when 
agreed. Some came before, some after, and some not at all.
On 2 September Mr O was back in the UK and he sent a complaint to Revolut. He said it had 
significantly impacted the family trip, as they couldnt access the money theyd saved for the 
trip. He said hed also had to cancel many appointments to be present for Revolut phone 
calls which didnt come, and he was still having trouble with the money not all returned to 
him. 
On 16 September, Revolut spoke to Mr O and told him it was closing his account. On 10 
November, Revolut said Mr O should try to contact the account review team as an 
anonymous user, but said that in the meantime it wasnt upholding his complaint. 
Mr O replied, pointing out that he had filed a formal complaint on 2 September, which had 
included all the communications hed had with Revolut and his experience to that point.  He 
said that every time he contacted Revolut, he was told it would be escalated but he wasnt 
contacted until a long time later, when someone else rang and again said it would be 
escalated. He said that Revolut hadnt taken care of his funds, and he wanted Revolut to 
listen to all the calls, and read his formal complaint. He said he didnt agree that Revolut had 
acted fairly when it hadnt taken care of a customers money. 
Mr O contacted this service. Our investigator notified Revolut, and asked it to respond to Mr 
Os complaint with a final response letter.
Revolut reviewed Mr Os complaint. It reinstated Mr Os account and he could access the 
app from 14 November. On 5 December Revolut credited Mr Os account with £1,658.19 for 
all the payments which had gone out of his account since he lost access to it.
Our investigator contacted Revolut again, and it offered Mr O £350 compensation, which the 
investigator considered was fair. She put this to Mr O, but Mr O didnt agree. 
Mr O said that hed have expected between £1,500 and £5,000 compensation. He pointed 
out that the bank from which hed sent money to his Revolut account had blocked his card 
immediately hed reported the fraud. When hed needed immediate help when the app had 
alerted him to the transactions going on, Revolut couldnt be reached. Nor would it refund his 
money, and its staff had just told him there was nothing to be done. He said this had 
impacted him and his family. It had also impacted his health because hed had to stay up to 
receive calls from Revolut in different time zones, waiting multiple times for Revolut to ring 
when it didnt. Mr O said he believed that if he were to take this up legally, it would be 
justifiable and would cost Revolut more.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding issue for me to decide is how much compensation for distress and 
inconvenience Revolut should pay Mr O, as it has re-opened his account and refunded the 
disputed money. To decide this, Ive looked carefully at what both sides have said and have 
provided in evidence.
- I recognise that Mr O had a very difficult experience. It would have been very 
frustrating to have no effective way of communicating with Revolut when the 
fraudulent withdrawals had taken place and as a result his app wasnt working. When 
fraudulent payments were happening, its understandable that what Mr O wanted 
would have been a straightforward way of contacting Revolut and an immediate stop 
on his account  which his other bank provided, but Revolut failed to do. So I 
consider Revolut let Mr O down.
- I accept Mr Os evidence that Revoluts calls either didnt take place, or not at the 
agreed times. There were also too many times when Mr O had to send repeat emails 
because Revolut hadnt dealt with the problem. And when there was contact, he had 
to start explaining again from the beginning, and wasnt given a solution.
- Mr O complained on 2 September and Revolut issued its final response letter, which 
declined his complaint, on 10 November. In that letter and its previous letter, Revolut 
asked for more information, so neither letter was a response which answered Mr Os 
points and set out Revoluts final position. Revolut didnt re-credit the disputed 
payments until 5 December. This was a long time for Mr O to wait, and outside the 
timescales for responding to complaints.
However, when considering the amount of compensation which would be fair and 
reasonable, Ive also borne in mind that: 
- as always with a fraud, most of the upset and inconvenience is caused by the 
fraudster, and sadly its not possible to obtain compensation from them.
- I recognise that it would have been a disappointment to Mr Os family when their 
holiday plans were disrupted. But rules mean I can only take into account the distress 
and inconvenience caused by Revolut to the account holder, and not what was 
suffered by his family as well.- Mr O said he believes that if he were to take this to court, it would cost Revolut more 
than the £1,500 to £5,000 he wants. If Mr O decides not to accept this decision, hes 
free to consider taking the issue to court.
I find that Mr O had a difficult and frustrating time in trying to communicate with Revolut 
about the fraud on his account, and waiting for a satisfactory conclusion to his complaint. I 
consider he suffered much inconvenience and frustration from Revoluts poor customer 
service. But the figure which Mr O has requested isnt in line with what we would award for 
this type of complaint. I consider that £350 is fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Revolut Ltd to pay Mr O £350 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman