DRN-4421608
The Complaint
Mr B says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna) (Novuna) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with claims he made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of a timeshare on 12 February 2012 (the Time of Sale) using 
finance from Novuna. Hes also unhappy with Novunas decision to lend to him.
Background to the Complaint
Mr B purchased membership of a timeshare from a timeshare provider (the Supplier) at the 
Time of Sale and used a loan from Novuna to pay for it (the Credit Agreement). Novuna 
says he repaid the loan on 3 September 2013.
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr B  using a professional representative (PR)  wrote to 
Novuna on 20 December 2021 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims for misrepresentation 
and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The allegations fuelling 
those claims at that time are familiar to both sides. So, it isnt necessary to set them out 
here.
Mr B also complained about Novunas decision to lend to him at the Time of Sale. And PR 
said the following in the Letter of Claim to support that allegation:
No affordability checks were carried out on our client's ability to afford the loan being 
offered. No income and expenditure information were requested let alone proof of income. 
To our client's knowledge no credit checks were carried out.
It doesnt look like Novuna responded to the Letter of Claim. So, a complaint was referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. The reasons for the complaint at that time concerned 
Mr Bs Section 75 and 140A claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship. But PR 
also introduced a new claim for breach of contract following the Suppliers alleged 
liquidation. 
Having notified Novuna of the complaint and given it a copy of the Letter of Claim, it issued a 
final response arguing that Mr Bs CCA claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship were made out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) while his lending 
complaint was out of time under the Financial Ombudsman Services separate six and three-
year time limit.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
before her, thought that Mr Bs CCA claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship 
were likely to have been made too late under the LA  giving Novuna a complete defence to 
those claims. And while she wasnt persuaded that Mr Bs lending complaint was out of time 
under the Financial Ombudsman Services own six and three-year time limit, she didnt think 
it should succeed on its merits anyway.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
 which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 12 September 2023 in which I concluded that:
1. Mr Bs complaint about Novunas decision to lend to him was made out of time under the 
Financial Ombudsman Services six and three-year time limit and there werent any 
exceptional circumstances that justified why it was late.
2. Mr Bs CCA claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship were likely to have 
been made out of time under the LA. That gave Novuna a complete defence to them 
and, as a result, I wasnt persuaded that Novuna had to take any steps to put anything 
right.
Novuna had nothing new to add in response to my PD. PR disagreed and responded at 
length. It did so with reference to different consumers. But insofar as PRs response relates 
to Mr Bs overall complaint, Ill summarise it here:
The timeshare in question was marketed and sold to Mr B by the Supplier at the 
Time of Sale as an investment contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations). Yet he was led to believe by the Supplier that the sale was 
lawful. With that being the case, in PRs view, Novunas decision to reject Mr Bs 
complaint about an unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA continued to 
conceal that fact.
The Court of Appeals judgment in Canada Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021] EWCA 
Civ 339 (Potter) made it clear that the creation of an unfair relationship under Section 
140A can amount to a breach of duty and, for the purposes of Section 32 of the LA, 
limitation doesnt run until the facts related to the unfair relationship could have been 
discovered with reasonable diligence. But in PRs view, it would have been impossible 
for Mr B to make a competent and relevant claim until the law in relation to the sale of 
timeshares was clarified  which it was in R (on the application of Shawbrook Bank Ltd) 
v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd and R (on the application of Clydesdale Financial 
Services Ltd (t/a Barclays Partner Finance)) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2023] 
EWHC 1069 (Shawbrook & BPF v FOS).
The complaint was then passed back to me to reconsider. Having done that, I issued a 
Jurisdiction Decision (JD) on 20 October 2023 that focused on Mr Bs lending complaint 
because that required a different type of decision to his complaint about his CCA claims  
which Ill address in this Final Decision.
But as I said in my JD, as Mr Bs Section 75 claim for breach of contract wasnt put to 
Novuna before this complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, I dont 
intend to address a complaint about that claim in this decision.My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still think Mr Bs CCA claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship were made out of time under the LA  giving Novuna a complete defence to 
them. And for that reason, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under 
Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And the limitation period to make 
such a claim expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see 
Section 2 of the LA).
A claim under Section 75 of the CCA is a like claim against the creditor. It essentially 
mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the supplier provided it satisfies certain 
conditions, which includes being made inside the relevant limitation period i.e., six years.
But this claim under Section 75 is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is also 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
As Mr B made a like claim against Novuna for misrepresentation under Section 75, he had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make the claim. As I said in 
my PD, the date on which the cause of action accrued was the Time of Sale. I say this 
because he entered into the purchase agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations 
of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as the loan from Novuna was used to help finance 
the purchase, it was when he entered into the Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that he had six years from the Time of Sale to make a claim for 
misrepresentation. But as he didnt put his claim to Novuna until 20 December 2021, his 
claim was likely to have been late even if it had been submitted to court  giving Novuna a 
complete defence to it.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr B and Novuna 
was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it 
if it applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, as I said in my PD, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. It was held 
in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB)1 that the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. And as 
this claim under Section 140A is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under Section 9 of the LA, the limitation period is six years.
As this claim, like Mr Bs Section 75 claim, was only put to Novuna on 20 December 2021, 
I think Novuna is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to it too, as Mr B still doesnt dispute 
that the Credit Agreement he entered into at the Time of Sale ended on 3 September 2013.
1 This wasnt changed by the more recent judgment in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland [2023] UKSC 34.With that said, PR did say in the Letter of Claim that the Supplier may have received 
undisclosed commission from Novuna. And I acknowledge that, in light of Potter2, there 
could be circumstances in which the limitation period applicable to a Section 140A claim 
could be postponed under Section 32 of the LA because of undisclosed commission.
To the extent that its relevant, this is what Section 32 of the LA says:
(1)where in the case of any action for which a period of limitation is prescribed by this Act,
either:
(a) the action is based upon the fraud of the defendant; or
(b) any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been deliberately concealed from 
him by the defendant; or
(c) the action is for relief from the consequences of a mistake;
the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff has discovered the fraud,
concealment or mistake (as the case may be) or could with reasonable diligence have
discovered it.
References in this subsection to the defendant include references to the defendants agent
and to any person through whom the defendant claims and his agent.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above, deliberate commission of a breach of duty in
circumstances in which it is unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate
concealment of the facts involved in that breach of duty
Had such a payment of undisclosed commission been made by Novuna at the Time of Sale, 
I havent seen anything to suggest it would have breached a duty by making it  nor have I 
seen anything to suggest Novuna was under a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of 
commission paid in these circumstances.
As Ive said before, Novuna also says that the average rate of commission it paid when 
funding the purchase of timeshares was 5.94%. And, as it says that the highest rate of 
commission it paid was 13.6%3 on one occasion, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, 
I still think its unlikely that the levels of commission likely to have been paid at the 
Time of Sale (if such a payment was made) were high enough to put Novuna on notice that 
not disclosing commission to Mr B risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair 
under Section 140A.
In response to my PD, PR also says that Section 32 of the LA gave Mr B more time to make 
his Section 140A claim because the Supplier marketed and sold the timeshare in question 
as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations  which PR 
says was a deliberate breach that falls under Section 32(2) of the LA. And as PR also 
argues that Novunas decision to turn down Mr Bs Section 140A claim without 
acknowledging that there had been a breach of Regulation 14(3) continued to conceal from 
him the fact that the relevant timeshare had been sold in contravention of that regulation, 
that, in PRs view, amounted to a fresh breach of that provision.
2 Potter is the subject of an appeal in the Supreme Court. But, as I understand it, as of the date of this decision, judgment hasnt
been handed down.
3 Novuna provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information on its commission rates  which I accept in confidence
under DISP 3.5.9 [R]. But, in keeping with that rule, one of Novunas Managing Directors (who is responsible for its consumer
finance and who is a FCA Approved Person) confirmed, in summary, the information I included in the paragraph above.In addition, PR says that Potter made it clear that the creation of an unfair relationship under 
Section 140A can amount to a breach of duty and, for the purposes of Section 32 of the LA, 
limitation doesnt run until the facts related to the unfair relationship could have been 
discovered with reasonable diligence. But in PRs view, it would have been impossible for
Mr B to make a competent and relevant claim until the law in relation to the sale of 
timeshares was clarified  which only happened when Shawbrook & BPF v FOS was heard 
by the High Court.
Having considered PRs submissions, Im not persuaded a court would conclude that Mr B 
had more time to make his Section 140A claim than the six-year limitation period Ive set out 
above.
Potter concerned a claim about the defendant not disclosing to the claimant a large amount 
of commission it received from the sale of an insurance policy. It was held that the 
defendants failure to disclose the amount could constitute concealment for the purposes of 
Section 32(1)(b) of the LA. It was also held that the concealment was deliberate, and that 
Section 32(2) of the LA could apply to the claim.
However, the issue in dispute in Mr Bs complaint is very different to that in Potter. He 
alleges that the Supplier marketed and sold his timeshare as an investment at the
Time of Sale. Yet it isnt clear how that fact was deliberately concealed from him. After all, it 
must be because he remembers the timeshare being marketed and sold by the Supplier that 
hes now unhappy about it. I understand that he might not have realised that there was a 
prohibition on selling timeshares as investments. But I cant see why his understanding of 
the law is a relevant consideration under Section 32 of the LA when he was aware of the 
underlying facts needed to make his claim.
Im also conscious that Shawbrook & BPF v FOS was heard in March 2023 and the 
judgment handed down in May that year. Yet, in the Letter of Claim, Mr B alleged that the 
Supplier had sold membership to him as an investment in breach of Regulation 14(3) of the 
Timeshare Regulations  thus giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
Section 140A of the CCA. 
So, I find PRs claim that Mr B wasnt able to make the claim in question before he knew the 
outcome of Shawbrook & BPF v FOS confusing and difficult to explain. 
Whats more, as there still isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the Supplier had, in 
fact, marketed and sold Mr Bs timeshare as an investment at the Time of Sale, it remains 
my view that his Section 140A claim wasnt viable for longer than the usual limitation period.
Overall, therefore, as I cant see any other reason why the limitation period applicable to
Mr Bs Section 140A claim was likely to have been postponed under the relevant provisions 
of the LA, I stand by my provisional finding that Novuna was and is entitled to rely on the LA 
as a defence to his claim.Conclusion
Ultimately, only a court can decide whether Mr Bs claims were made out of time under the 
LA. But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. With that being the case, I think Novuna had and has 
a complete defence to Mr Bs claims under the LA given their timing. And as I cant see any 
other reason to uphold this complaint, I dont think theres anything Novuna needs to do to 
put things right here.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman