DRN-2913381
The complaint
Companies that Ill refer to as C1 and C2 have complained that U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
Mr E and Ms W, directors of C1 and C2, have brought the complaint to us on C1 and C2s 
behalf. They have also been helped in bringing their complaint by a representative.  
What happened
C1 and C2 are covered under one policy. For ease of reading I will now refer to C1, C2 and 
their representative as C. 
 
C held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. They contacted UKI to claim on 
their policy after they were impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
 
UKI turned down the claim. It said there wasnt any cover under the policy as Covid-19 
hadnt caused damage to property. And while the policy did cover a specified list of 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. As C were unhappy with UKIs response they brought 
their complaint to our service. 
 
C think various parts of the policy provide cover. Ive set out their reasoning for this, along 
with UKIs response below. 
 
Material damage 
 
C said that they closed as a result of the Governments response to the pandemic. They 
believe the closure of their business and loss of revenue amounts to damage. C said there is 
no requirement under the policy for loss to be caused by physical damage and think that 
their closure would be covered by the peril accidental cause under their policy.  
 
C referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to support 
their view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of Cs business 
due to Covid-19. C also said that pandemics werent specifically excluded, and C had a 
reasonable expectation that their policy would provide cover in these circumstances. They 
added that where a policy is ambiguous it should be read in favour of the policyholder.  
 
UKI said that the policy requires damage, by an insured peril, to physical property in order to 
provide cover. And that trade being lost isnt considered damage under this part of the 
policy.  
 
Extension for unspecified customers 
 
C said that this extension should provide cover as the requirement for damage has been 
met, as set out above. They said that they can provide evidence of cancellations as a result 
of customers no longer trading. 
 
UKI didnt think this extension applied as Covid-19 didnt cause damage.  
 
Extension for closure 
 
C believe that their closure was due to defects in their businesses sanitary arrangements 
and therefore this extension should provide cover.  
 
UKI said the reference to other sanitary arrangements is a clarification of the first part of the 
extension which provides cover for defective drains, e.g. where a property has a septic tank 
rather than drains. It didnt think C had closed because of defects in their drains or other  
sanitary arrangements. 
 
Extension for disease 
 
C dont think the list of diseases set out in the policy is exhaustive, as the policy doesnt 
specifically say that no other disease shall we added. They said that most of the diseases 
listed in the policy are notifiable diseases, as is Covid-19. They believe that they had visitors 
to their premises who had Covid-19. 
 
UKI said the policy covers an exhaustive list of diseases and theres no requirement for them 
to include wording in the policy that says no further diseases will be added.   
 
Other factors 
 
C said they had previously made a separate claim following property damage and, as UKI 
had taken the effects of Covid-19 into account when settling that claim, it wasnt fair to now 
exclude cover due to Covid-19.  
 
C also said that theyd expected to be covered following a statement made by the 
Government towards the start of the pandemic.  
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
Covid-19 had caused damage to property; or that C had closed due to a defect in their 
sanitary arrangements; or that the list of specified diseases should be extended to cover 
Covid-19. He also didnt think the settlement of the previous claim was relevant to the 
present claim; or that the Governments announcements affected the cover provided under 
the policy. 
 
C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C have made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead 
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.  
 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on C. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Cs claim. 
 
Material damage 
 
Section 1 of Cs policy covers material damage. C say that business interruption cover is 
provided under the following clause: 
 
In the event of Damage at the Premises to any Property Insured in connection 
with the Business occurring during the Period of Insurance and caused by any of 
the Perils (where stated as operative in the Schedule), the Company will pay 
to the Insured the value of such Property Insured or the amount of the Damage at 
the time of such Damage or, at its own option, reinstate or replace such 
property. 
  
However, business interruption cover is provided by Section 2 of the policy (business 
interruption), the relevant part of which says: 
 
If Damage by: 
 
1 any of the Perils (other than the Peril 2); or 
2 Subsidence, Ground Heave and Landslip (shown as 
Endorsement A in the Schedule if operative); 
 
insured under Section 1: Material Damage of this Policy or by Explosion (as 
defined in this Section), occurs during the Period of Insurance to property used by 
the Insured at the Premises for the purposes of the Business and causes 
interruption to or interference with the Business at the Premises or if the Insured 
is unable to trace or establish Outstanding Debit Balances in whole or in part due 
to the Insured as a result of the Insureds books of account or other business 
books or records at the Premises being subject to Damage during the Period of 
Insurance, then the Company will indemnify the Insured for the amount of loss 
resulting from such interruption, interference or Damage, in accordance with the 
basis of cover stated in the Schedule and described below. 
 
Provided that payment shall have been made or liability admitted for the Damage 
under an insurance policy covering the interest of the Insured in the property or 
payment would have been made or liability admitted, for the Damage, but for the 
operation of a proviso in the insurance excluding liability for losses below a 
specified amount. 
 
For this part of the policy to provide cover there would need to be damage caused by an 
insured peril to property used by C at their premises, which caused an interruption to, or 
interfered with their business. Damage is defined in the policy as Accidental loss, 
destruction or damage. 
  
One of the Perils covered by Section 1 of the policy is any accidental cause and its under 
this peril that C think their claim should be covered. However, whether or not closure due to 
Covid-19 and the resulting Government response should be considered as an accidental 
cause, I still dont think this would provide cover for Cs claim, because I dont think Covid-19 
caused damage to property at Cs premises.  
 
C have referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). While 
Ive considered this, Ive also considered other cases including TKC London Ltd v Allianz 
Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 
557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.  
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Cs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage.  
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Cs 
premises, given that they had visitors with symptoms of Covid-19. However, the 
Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings1 doesnt recommend any 
cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 
on Cs property. And the presence of any particular virus isnt automatically damage. So, I 
dont think Covid-19 has damaged Cs property because there is no evidence that SARS-
CoV-2 has caused any physical change or altered the state of any property. I understand C 
increased the level of cleaning, but I dont think such specialist cleaning was required to 
constitute property being considered damaged. 
I understand C think that the wording of the policy is ambiguous; however, I dont agree. I 
think its clear that the policy requires damage to property in order to provide cover. I also 
dont think its relevant that theres not an exclusion for pandemics, as there isnt a term that 
would provide cover for the circumstances of Cs claim.   
For completeness, I also dont think Section 1 of the policy would provide cover for the 
circumstances of Cs claim either as there wasnt damage to property, for the reasons Ive 
set out above.  
Extension for unspecified customers 
 
The cover provided by the policy is extended by various extensions. Before listing these, the 
policy says: 
 
Any cover for loss in respect of Gross Profit or Gross Revenue, as Insured by 
this Section, resulting from Interruption to or Interference with the Business In 
consequence of Damage to property. Is extended to Include such loss at or in the 
undernoted situations and will be deemed to be loss resulting from Damage to 
property used by the Insured at the Premises for the purposes of the Business: 
 
The relevant part of the extension for unspecified customers is restated as an endorsement 
on the Policy Schedule and says: 
 
The premises of any of the Insured's customers within: 
1 the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man; or 
2 any other countries within the European Economic Area; 
 
Provided that for the purposes of this Extension the term "customers" means 
those companies, organisations or individuals, with whom at the time of the 
Damage the Insured has contracts or trading relationships, to supply goods or 
services. 
 
In order for this extension to provide cover there would need to be damage to the premises 
of any of Cs customers. And while Cs customers might not have been able to trade due to 
Covid-19, Im not persuaded this is damage, for the reasons Ive set out above.  
 
Extension for closure 
 Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of closure of any part of the Premises, commencing 
during the Period of Insurance, by a competent Public Authority due to defective 
drains or other sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests. 
 
C say that the use of or before other sanitary arrangements means it should be considered 
separately to defective drains and therefore provide cover because Cs closure was due to 
sanitary arrangements. I think an ordinary reading of the extension would suggest that there 
would need to be a defect in Cs drains or other sanitary arrangements to provide cover. 
However, even if I was to accept that defective drains and other sanitary arrangements are 
separate, the extension would still require the interruption or interference with Cs business 
to have been in consequence of closure by a Public Authority due to sanitary 
arrangements.  
 
When thinking about how the ordinary policyholder would interpret this, I think this would 
reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems with the premises toilets or 
washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to prevent the spread of a 
disease. I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that C closed as a result of the 
Governments response to the pandemic rather than because of their sanitary 
arrangements. 
 
Extension for disease 
 
The relevant part of this extension covers loss in consequence of: 
 
the occurrence of the following diseases: 
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, 
Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, 
Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Bubonic Plague, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever, 
at the Premises: 
 
Unfortunately, this extension also does not provide C with cover in the current 
circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses. 
 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something UKI might have 
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases updated by the Government, and 
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Cs policy sets out a specified list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy.  
 
There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not included, 
including any new diseases which emerge. And I think by setting out that the policy covers 
the following diseases this shows that it is an exhaustive list.  
 
The purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific 
illnesses. There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including SARS. 
Therefore, I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
disease. 
 
Other factors 
 Im unable to comment on Cs previous claim. If theyre unhappy with how UKI settled that 
claim, they would need to complain about that separately.  
 
Although C might have understood from a Government announcement that their claim would 
be covered, whether that is the case would still depend on the wording within their specific 
policy. And in this case, I dont think Cs policy provides cover for their claim. 
 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E and Ms W, but having 
considered things very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C1 and C2 to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman