DRN-4347231
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Bank of Scotland PLC (Halifax) mis-sold her fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Accounts (URCA) in 2016 and 2019. 
Ms R has given a number of reasons why she says that they were mis-sold, these include 
that she was being charged £17 per month for nothing and Ms R says she didnt use or 
need any of the benefits provided by the account, so she would like a refund of the account 
fees.
What happened
Halifax said that Ms R had complained too late about the sale of the URCA sold in 2016, but 
it agreed our service could consider the complaint about the URCA sold in 2019.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they also concluded that our service 
couldnt consider Ms Rs complaint about the sale of the URCA in 2016. That was because 
the complaint about that sale had been raised outside of the time limits that apply when 
using our service.
Ms R agreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the adjudicator then went on to assess 
whether the URCA sold in 2019 was mis-sold, but they concluded that it hadnt been.
Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Prior to Ms R upgrading her account to an URCA (again) in 2019, Ms R held a fee-free 
account. And I can see that Ms R had previously downgraded her account from being a fee-
paying URCA to a fee-free account in March 2017. 
As such, Im satisfied that when Ms R applied for the URCA in 2019, she was fully aware 
that fee-free accounts were available to her and that there was no obligation to have a fee-
paying account, if she didnt want one. Im also satisfied that Ms R knew that she could 
downgrade her account (again) to a fee-free account at any time. As such, I think that Ms R 
was given a fair choice when she chose to upgrade her account again to an URCA in 2019.
Ms R says that Halifax told her that the URCA was a good account. But Halifax has provided 
evidence to show that the upgrade did not take place in branch and that Ms R applied for the 
URCA herself, online. So in the circumstances, although I think its possible that Ms R 
mayve had a general conversation about the URCA during a branch visit, Im unable to say 
that the upgrade process was done on an advised or recommended basis.
This means Halifax was not required to check whether the URCA was appropriate for Ms R 
during the sales process. Instead, it was up to Ms R to determine this for herself. But to help 
her do this, Halifax was required to provide Ms R with the important information about the 
account, so that she understood how much it cost and what it came with  as well as any 
important terms or restrictions that apply to the insurance benefits.
Halifax has explained that its online sales process would've explained the account benefits, 
the monthly cost and highlighted key exclusions and provided the terms and conditions of 
the URCA. 
Ive had a look at an archived version of Halifaxs website from October 2019, to gain an 
understanding of what Ms R would likely have seen when applying for the account. From 
what I can see it was made very clear what benefits (both insurance and non-insurance 
benefits) were included with the account. This included a summary of what each product 
covers and also key exclusions that apply to each product. It also clearly states that the 
account cost £15 per month at the time. It also explains that a lower fee of £12 per month 
applies if £750 is paid into the account and providing there are at least two active Direct 
Debits on the account and the account remains in credit.
As such, based on what I have seen, I think that Ms R was given enough information to 
know what benefits were included with the account, what the key exclusions were and how 
much it would cost her if she chose to upgrade. I also think its the case that, given that Ms R 
had previously held the URCA in 2017, Ms R likely already had a good appreciation of what 
benefits were included with the URCA, when she agreed to upgrade her account again. So 
although Ms R says that the URCA was expensive, I think she knew how much it cost when 
she agreed to it.
Given all of the information that Ms R was likely presented with, Im unable to say that 
Halifax had mis-sold the account. Indeed, it seems that Halifax did what it was largely 
required to do to ensure that Ms R was able to make an informed decision. And although Ms 
R may now, with the benefit of hindsight, regret her decision to upgrade to the URCA for a 
second time and now thinks it was poor value for money, I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for that in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman