DRN-1100383
The complaint
Mrs Y says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs Y bought the PPI when she applied for a credit card in 2002. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. MBNA hasnt agreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ys case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ys complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Y cant recall how the PPI was sold to her. But MBNA have given me a copy of her 
signed credit card application form from October 2002. On it, Mrs Y ticked a box to say she 
didnt want PPI. MBNA have also sent me an extract from their internal computer system. It 
shows the PPI was sold to Mrs Y at a later date during a telephone call at the end of October 
2002. So, I think its most likely PPI was sold on the phone, after shed got her card, even if 
Mrs Y doesnt recall that now.
MBNA have provided us with a call script that was used at that time  I think its likely MBNA 
would have used this when speaking with Mrs Y. The call script doesnt show that MBNA 
gave advise to its customers whether to take out PPI. So, I dont think MBNA recommended 
it to Mrs Y, which meant it didnt have to check it was right for her. But MBNA still had to 
ensure the information it gave Mrs Y about the PPI was clear enough for her to make a 
decision about buying it.
But I dont think MBNA gave Mrs Y clear enough information about the policy. I say this 
because, although the cost of the policy was mentioned on Mrs Ys signed credit card 
application form, the information given was limited. MBNA didnt tell Mrs Y that interest might 
be payable on the premiums or that shed have to continue paying the premiums while 
claiming under the policy.
I think this information wouldve mattered to Mrs Y because shes told us she wouldve 
received up to three months full sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. Shes 
also advised that she had the equivalent of up to three months wages in savings at that time. 
I note what MBNA has said about Mrs Ys employment information. Theyve queried Mrs Ys 
sick pay and savings as there isnt anything provided to support what shes said. Theyve specifically pointed to the fact that information on her employer is hard to find and 
questioned her length of time in employment. 
But I think the information that Mrs Y has provided now is consistent with what was provided 
on her application form way back in 2002. Im conscious that the policy was sold 18 years 
ago, and that that the information weve asked for is no longer available. But Ive no reason 
to question what shes said about her sick pay or her savings. And even if theres little 
information now about her employer, what she says about her employer and her length of 
time in employment is consistent with whats on her credit card application from 2002. So Im 
happy its correct.
On balance, I think its likely she had at least enough sick pay and savings to mean the cost 
of the policy wasnt worthwhile due to the limited benefits. In the event of a successful claim, 
the policy only paid 3% of the outstanding monthly balance on the credit card. So I think Mrs 
Y probably wouldnt have wanted the policy if shed been properly told about the cost and 
benefits by MBNA. Given her situation, I think shed have considered it poor value for money 
and she wouldve decided not to buy the policy.
So I think Mrs Y has lost out because of what MBNA did wrong by not explaining enough 
about the policy. 
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs Y in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.    MBNA should find out how much Mrs Y would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mrs Y owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs Y made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount they owe her.  
B.    MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs Y would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.    If  when MBNA works out what Mrs Y would have owed each month without PPI 
 Mrs Y paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs Y paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs Y wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
D.    MBNA should tell Mrs Y what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman