DRN-4200710
The complaint
Ms S is complaining that Blue Badge Mobility Insurance Broker Services Limited (Blue 
Badge) wouldnt renew her carer professional indemnity insurance policy. She believes its 
breached the Equality Act 2010 in doing so.
What happened
In April 2022 Ms S took out an insurance policy through Blue Badge  a broker  to 
indemnify her for her work as a carer. In March 2023, Blue Badge wrote to her to say it 
wouldnt be offering her a renewal of the policy. Ms S complained about this. Blue Badge 
explained that it took this decision as a result of the way Ms S had spoken to its staff when 
shed raised a complaint during the policy term. Ms S says that Blue Badge was racially 
discriminating against her as she says the way she speaks is down to her race.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think there was anything to support 
that Blue Badge had discriminated against her. The investigator thought Blue Badge 
declined to renew the policy because of the language Ms S used during the complaint as 
opposed to the way she spoke.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator and maintained that she strongly feels Blue Badge 
discriminated and victimised her in deciding to not renew the policy. As she didnt agree, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that this Service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct Blue 
Badge generally about how it conducts its business or who it does business with. But I can 
look at whether it has treated Ms S fairly. Its also not our role to say whether a business has 
acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a 
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not Blue 
Badge has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take it into account, if its 
relevant, amongst other things when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Ms S doesnt think Blue Badge has treated her fairly  in particular she thinks its racially 
discriminated against her in its decision to not renew the insurance policy. And she says this 
decision meant she was unable to work.
The Equality Act 2010 (the Act) is relevant here and Ive thought how it applies in Ms Ss 
case. The Act prohibits several types of discrimination  such as direct and indirect 
discrimination and victimisation  and the relevant protected characteristic here is race.  
Blue Badge has said it chose to not do business with Ms S any longer because of the way 
she treated its staff. In essence Ms S is saying that Blue Badge indirectly discriminated 
against her because she said she speaks the way she does because of her race. She also 
thinks its victimised her for raising a complaint.
Ive considered what Ms S has said and also thought about Blue Badges reasons for not 
renewing the policy. Blue Badge has set out that its decision rests from the way Ms S spoke 
and communicated with its staff shortly after the policy was taken out. Unfortunately, Blue 
Badge didnt record its telephone calls at that time, so I cant listen to what was said, but Ive 
considered the testimony of all parties to think about whats most likely to have been said.
Blue Badge says Ms S made many personal hurtful accusations it considered to be totally 
without foundation to people she didn't not know and whose background she does not know. 
I dont think Blue Badge has made the decision it did because of the way Ms S spoke, but 
because of what she said. Its, ultimately. a commercial decision by Blue Badge who it does 
business with. Its entitled to make the decision it did, so long as it exercises this right fairly.
I can understand why Ms S was unhappy to be suddenly told that the policy wouldnt renew 
as it seems there was around 10 months between the calls that caused Blue Badge to have 
concerns and Blue Badge informing her it wouldnt renew the policy. Ideally, Blue Badge 
could have advised Ms S of this sooner, although given the nature of the conversations at 
the time, I can understand why Blue Badge chose to not do so. But, in any event, Im not 
persuaded Ms S has lost out here. Shes ultimately unhappy Blue Badge chose to not renew 
the policy and this wouldnt be any different whether Blue Badge informed her of its decision 
in May 2022 or when it was due to renew in March 2023.  
Taking everything Ive seen into consideration, I cant reasonably conclude that it was unfair 
for Blue Badge to decide it didnt want to continue to arrange an insurance policy for Ms S. 
Im satisfied that it took the decision to safeguard its staff and I dont think it was unfair for it 
to make the decision it did. And it gave Ms S one months notice of this decision, so Im 
satisfied that it gave Ms S sufficient time to make alternative arrangements.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman