DRN-3991084
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about a YourLife Plan  Term Assurance policy she held with AIG 
Life Limited (AIG). It should have been in joint names with her husband but upon his death, 
she discovered that Mr B wasnt covered. 
In my decision I will be referring to the late Mr B as Mr B. I dont mean any discourtesy or 
disrespect by this. 
What happened
Mrs B took the life policy in her sole name with AIG in September 2020. The sum assured 
was £180,000 costing a monthly premium of £30.46 with a cover term of 20 years. 
In 2022 Mrs B contacted AIG as she wanted to add her husband  Mr B  to the life 
assurance policy. Sadly, Mr B died on 3 May and when Mrs B tried to claim on the policy, 
she was told that her husband wasnt covered. 
Mrs B wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. Amongst other points, Mrs B 
told us she had asked for her husband to be added to the policy in January 2022. She was 
told the addition would be done and she had left it with AIG to do. She also said she was not 
told about the lengthy process needed to add another name to the policy. 
Mrs B said the delay and confusion caused by AIG mistakenly sending her a trust form 
further complicated the issue in her husband not being added to the policy sooner, so she 
should not be denied the claim because of AIGs errors.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
There was no evidence Mrs B had called AIG before 19 April 2022 about adding 
anyone to the policy. Mrs B had called on 31 March but that only related to the policy 
documents being sent to her. And AIG had received an amendment form on 9 April 
to update her details but there was nothing to suggest AIG had received a request to 
add Mr B to the policy. 
On 19 April Mrs B called to add her husband to the policy. Mrs B was asked to email 
her husbands details and was told it would take two working days for a quote to be 
provided. Mrs B emailed on the same day with the information requested.
Mr Bs date of birth was missing from Mrs Bs email and AIG replied on 26 April to 
ask for that information. Mrs B replied on 29 April and AIG sent the quote on 13 May, 
but Mr B had died on 3 May. 
AIG told us the quote hadnt been sent within the usual timescale but even if it had 
been AIG said the policy wouldnt have been set up in time as further steps were 
needed. If the quote had been accepted by Mr B AIG would have needed to speak 
with him to complete a full questionnaire which would need to be reviewed by AIGs 
underwriting team. 
Despite the delays, the investigator didnt think it was likely Mr B would have been 
added to the policy before 3 May because of the additional steps needed once a 
quote was agreed. As a result, he wasnt going to ask AIG to do anything further. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the outcome. She referred to her dealings with her financial adviser, 
that AIG didnt tell her it would take so long to add a joint policyholder and reiterated that she 
had contacted AIG in January about the addition to the policy.  But Mrs Bs comments didnt 
change the investigators opinion. 
Mrs B asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B has said she called AIG in January 2022 about adding Mr B to the policy. AIG has 
said the first time Mrs B made contact about this was on 19 April. And after listening to the 
call recordings provided by AIG, I think that is most likely what happened. 
I say this because its clear from those calls, with the exception of the call of 31 March when 
Mrs B asked for her policy documents to be sent to her, that AIG had no record of any earlier 
calls and nothing from January 2022. As a regulated business I would expect AIG to provide 
us with all of its calls and records relating to this complaint and after reviewing everything 
AIG has given us, theres nothing to indicate Mrs B called any earlier than April to add her 
husband to the policy. 
I note that Mrs B has referred to her financial adviser in bringing her complaint and who is 
also referred to during the calls she had with AIG. During the calls with AIG Mrs B was 
advised to contact her financial adviser about her recollections of earlier contact about the 
policy. It thought Mrs B was referring to contact she had had with her financial adviser rather 
than AIG. And from the names and dates Mrs B referred to during the calls I think its likely 
Mrs B was referring to contact she had had with her financial adviser rather than AIG.
Bearing in mind that AIG has said that all of its telephone calls are recorded and that any 
outgoing calls made by AIG  as referred to by Mrs B during one of the calls  would be 
noted on file, I think it is unlikely that the earlier contact Mrs B has referred to was with AIG. 
Mrs B may wish to contact her financial adviser about any conversations she had about 
adding her husband to the policy.  
What is clear from the telephone recordings is that Mrs B called AIG on 19 April asking 
about adding her husband to the policy. She was advised to send an email with his full 
name, date of birth, smoking status, occupation and contact details. I have a copy of Mrs Bs 
email sent to AIG on the same day with the comment I understand that it may take up to two 
days to update the enclosed.
This comment was a reflection of the information Mrs B was given during the call of 19 April. 
She was told it would take around four hours to add the request to Mrs Bs file and the 
customer alternations team would provide a quote within two working days. However, its evident from the email Mrs B sent on 19 April that she didnt include her 
husbands date of birth as she should have done. AIG emailed her on 26 April to ask for that 
information. Mrs B provided AIG with Mr Bs date of birth on 29 April. 
Clearly AIG responded to Mrs Bs email which she sent on 19 April outside of its usual 
timescales of two working days for a quote. I cant know the reason for that delay  and AIG 
does acknowledge there was a delay  but it may have been because of the lack of 
information about Mr Bs date of birth, it not being able to proceed with providing a quote and 
it having to refer back to Mrs B. The lack of full details for Mr B required additional 
administration and that was outside of its usual turnaround time as ideally AIG should have 
got back to Mrs B within two working days. 
I have considered this slight delay in my overall review of the complaint and the impact that 
had on the timing of potentially adding Mr B to the policy. 
Sadly, Mr B died on 3 May and Mrs B was told she wasnt able to claim on the policy as he 
wasnt covered. Mrs B says her husband should have been added to the policy by that time 
but having reviewed the correspondence and dates involved I think it would have been 
unlikely it would have been possible for AIG to have added Mr B to the policy prior to his 
death. 
I say this because, being unaware of Mr Bs death on 3 May, I can see that AIG wrote to  
Mrs B on 13 May in response to her request to add her husband to her life assurance policy. 
In that correspondence it said;
This quote has been generated as if there were standard terms applied, therefore, it 
should be noted, that the final premium and start date cannot be verified until [Mr B] 
has been underwritten. This is because the actual premium can only be determined 
once the full application has been assessed and terms offered.
If you want to go ahead with the alteration, please can you contact our Customer 
Services team on [phone number provided]. We will arrange a time with [Mr B] to go 
through the application questions which they will need to answer in order to be 
underwritten.
I think its clear from the above that if the quote was accepted by Mr B, AIG would have to 
arrange for a time to speak with him and go through the application questions. Those 
application questions would then have to be considered by its underwriting team before it 
could reach a decision as to whether Mr B could be added to the policy and the cost of that. 
Inevitably this necessary additional layer of contact and verification would have caused a 
delay in Mr B being added to the policy. 
Ive considered the impact this would have had on Mr B being added to the policy. If AIG had 
responded to Mrs Bs initial email request of 19 April within its usual timescale of two 
business days  21 April  and taking account of Mrs Bs turnaround time for the date of birth 
request of three days  24 April (a Sunday)  then two business days after that would be    
27 April and the earliest time the initial quote could have been provided. 
But even if a call was arranged shortly after the quote was received by Mr and Mrs B on     
27 April for Mr B to complete the application questions  say 28 April  I think, on the 
balance of probabilities, it would have been very unlikely that the underwriting team would 
have assessed the responses to those questions and agreed terms and then added Mr B to 
the policy prior to his death which was just three business days later. Overall, after taking account of AIG acting outside of its usual timescales, Im of the opinion 
that it would have been unlikely for Mr B to have been made joint policyholder to the life 
policy prior to his death. So, it follows that he wasnt covered by the policy when he died and 
therefore AIG wouldnt be in the position of having to assess the claim. While I accept there 
were some minor delays, over and above that, I dont think AIG has done anything wrong 
and I dont think it needs to do anything more and assess the claim. Mr B wasnt covered by 
the policy when he died.
And for the reasons already stated, I havent sufficient evidence to suggest that Mrs B 
contacted AIG any earlier than 19 April to add Mr B to the policy. 
Mrs B has referred to confusion and delay being in Mr B being added to the policy which she 
says was caused by her being sent trust documents for the policy in error. But I understand 
that those documents were sent to Mrs B by her financial adviser and not AIG. So, I cant 
agree that AIG is responsible for any confusion caused about this point. 
 
No doubt Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. Its clear from the file that Mrs B has 
been through a really difficult time. Her husband had very recently died, and she was having 
to deal with his affairs. Id like to express my sympathy for Mrs B and Im very sorry to hear 
of the position she was in at such a difficult time for her. 
Taking all of the above into account, overall, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint because, for 
the reasons given, I dont find on the balance of probabilities, that Mr B could have been 
added to the policy prior to his death if AIG had acted any more quickly than it did. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mrs B tried to add Mr B to the policy earlier than 19 April and 
that it was AIG that didnt act on that or delayed that request. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman