DRN-3615187
The complaint
Mr K complains that ReAssure Limited has declined a claim on his serious illness cover, 
following the death of his wife. Mr K also complains that the policy was mis-sold, as the 
terms werent made clear. 
What happened
In 2003, Mr K took out a Cash Crisis Cover policy, initially provided by American Life 
Insurance Company and now administered by ReAssure. The policy offered cash sums in 
the event of the policy holder, or another covered individual, being diagnosed with one of a 
number of specified serious illnesses. Mr K took out family cover.
In September 2021, Mr Ks wife was admitted to hospital. Mrs K was already unwell with 
significant ill-health, but was subsequently diagnosed with cancer. Very sadly, Mrs K died 
approximately two weeks after her diagnosis.
Mr K made a claim on his policy. ReAssure declined the claim, citing a policy exclusion that 
stated an insured person must survive for at least 28 days after the date of diagnosis, 
otherwise benefit will not be paid. 
Mr K complained and also said that the policy had been mis-sold, as he wouldnt have 
bought it if hed been made aware of the exclusion.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Ks complaints. It said the exclusion had been fairly applied and 
the cover was sold on a non-advised basis. No assessment of suitability was undertaken, 
and it was for Mr K to decide if the policy was right for his circumstances.
Mr K wasnt satisfied, so he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr K asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very unwelcome news 
for Mr K. Ill explain my decision.
Firstly, Id like to offer my condolences to Mr K and his family. I appreciate this has been a 
very difficult and distressing time for everyone.
Policy claim
Its not in dispute that Mrs K died within 28 days of her cancer diagnosis. I appreciate Mr K 
has concerns about the overall fairness of the policy exclusion. My role is not to comment on 
the terms an insurer chooses to include in a policy, but rather, to decide whether a policy 
term has been fairly applied. And in this case, I find that it has. 
Ive seen the policy leaflet, which details the terms, including the survival period exclusion. I 
can understand that this term seems harsh to Mr K. Survival clauses are not uncommon in 
such policies, and whilst its extremely sad that Mrs K was diagnosed not long before her 
death  and quite possibly when, as her family suggests, shed had cancer for some time - 
that doesnt mean I think ReAssure has wrongly or unfairly applied the policy exclusion. 
Thats because its the date of diagnosis thats the relevant date here, and that date is not in 
dispute.
Im also aware Mr K says his family was told by ReAssure that discretion could be applied to 
the survivor period exclusion. The phone calls weve received show the call handler picked 
up on the potential for the exclusion to be relevant, but explained that ReAssure would need 
medical information in order to decide if the exclusion applied. So I dont think Mr K or his 
family were given misleading information or there was any suggestion that the claim would 
be paid. Its also worth saying that where an insurer does decide to exercise discretion  as 
from time to time they do  this is invariably a gesture of goodwill. And where I find a policy 
term has been fairly applied  as I have here - I cant direct a business to exercise discretion. 
Sale of policy
Ill turn now to Mr Ks mis-sale complaint. Its not clear how the policy was sold and, perhaps 
given the passage of time, theres a discrepancy between the parties. Mr K says an agent 
came to his home. ReAssure says the sale took place over the phone. In any event, I dont 
think I need to decide the exact sales channel, because I dont think it makes a difference to 
the outcome. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this was an advised sale. I have seen the policy 
information Mr K would have received at the time of sale, which includes the survival period 
exclusion. On balance Im satisfied Mr K was provided with the policy information and it was 
for him to decide whether the cover available met his needs. 
But even if I were wrong about that, and an advisor had made the term clear to Mr K, I still 
think he would have taken out cover. I say this because Mr K clearly wanted protection and I 
think it much more likely that he would anticipate being able to meet the survivor period 
condition, in the unfortunate event of him or a family member being diagnosed with a serious 
illness. 
So overall, I dont think ReAssure has treated Mr K unfairly in declining his serious illness 
claim and rejecting his mis-sale complaint. It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Finally, for completeness, I also made enquiries of both parties regarding a policy benefit 
known as return of premium or loyalty bonus. I wanted to know if Mr K had received this 
benefit, having had the policy for the required qualification period. I was pleased to hear this 
benefit was paid by ReAssure in 2018, in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint against ReAssure Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman