DRN-4145337
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given by Ergowealth Limited in connection with Mr Bs Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA).
Ergowealth Limited was an appointed representative of Sanlam Partnerships Limited 
(Sanlam) between 5 July 2018 and 30 June 2022. Mr Bs complaint relates to advice given 
during that period so Sanlam is responsible.
What happened
Ergowealths Pension Crystallisation report dated April 2021 set out that Mr B needed funds 
to help meet ongoing house/estate renovation costs. Hed taken £300,000 PCLS (Pension 
Commencement Lump Sum) from his Scottish Widows pension. Mr B was looking to take a 
one off capital sum of £30,000 immediately in a tax efficient manner and the same amount in 
September 2021. 
The report recorded that Mr B had Fixed Protection 2016 which gave him a LTA of 
£1,250,000 against the standard LTA of £1,073,100. And that Mr B had currently utilised 
82.41% of his LTA which meant he had sufficient LTA to do what Ergowealth was 
recommending  that Mr B crystallise £120,000 of his Scottish Widows pension and 
withdraw an immediate tax free PCLS of £30,000.  
Mr B went ahead and took tax free cash totalling £60,000 in two tranches in April and 
October 2021. In November 2021 Mr B required further funds and Ergowealth advised that 
tax free cash of £26,000 was still available. In the end £50,000 was paid to Mr B by Scottish 
Widows. I think that was due to an error on Scottish Widows part  it seems some trades 
hadnt been settled correctly and Scottish Widows paid that sum manually to Mr B.  
In fact, before Mr B made the further withdrawals in 2021, hed already used 96% of his LTA 
by taking the PCLS totalling £300,000 as recorded in the report. To avoid breaching his LTA 
he could only have crystallised a further £50,000, giving a tax free PCLS of £12,500.
Mr B complained but his complaint wasnt upheld and he referred the matter to this service. 
On his complaint form he said Ergowealth had advised in writing in April 2021 that 82.41% of 
the LTA had been used. Therefore £60,000 tax free cash was still available. Mr B said that 
came as a surprise to him as he hadnt been expecting such a large amount. He queried it 
with his adviser who in turn queried it with the paraplanner who confirmed the figures had 
come directly from Scottish Widows and were correct. On that basis Mr B accepted it. But he 
later discovered the figure of 82.41% hadnt come from Scottish Widows but had been 
calculated by Ergowealths paraplanner and the adviser had confirmed that. Mr B said, given 
the incorrect advice, Ergowealth should pay the LTA charge which Mr B said was £119,167. 
Sanlam told us that Ergowealths adviser had suggested Mr B withdraw funds from his ISA 
(Individual Savings Account) then worth £465,000 but Mr B said he wanted to leave that to 
repay his interest only mortgage of £400,000 which had seven years left to run. 
Sanlam said it was clear, from Ergowealths Pension Crystallisation Report, that the LTA had 
been discussed previously and Mr B had registered for Fixed Protection 2016. Mr B 
understood, as supported by his comments on his complaint form, the effect on crystallising 
his pension  hed said he was surprised by the amount of tax free cash apparently 
available. Irrespective of the advice, Mr B wouldve been aware of the percentage of the LTA 
used each time his pension was crystallised as hed have received correspondence from 
Scottish Widows confirming that. Scottish Widows had also issued a P60 to Mr B on 10 May 
2021 confirming that 96% of his LTA had been used. 
 
Sanlam didnt think Mr B had suffered any financial loss and, unless hed changed his mind 
about not wanting to deplete his ISA, the £97,500 which hed received in excess of his LTA 
(hed received in all £110,000) wouldnt have been available to him from any other source. 
An offer of £500 for trouble and upset had been made which remained open if Mr B wanted 
to accept it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr B had needed the money for 
renovations which were ongoing and had, so far, cost Mr B £800,000. Mr B had confirmed 
he had no other means of paying for the work. He didnt want to use his ISA as he needed 
that to pay off his mortgage. Hed been misled but, even if hed been given the correct 
information, hed still have needed to access his pension to pay for the work as he had no 
other source of funds. Given the scale of the work, the investigator didnt think Mr B wouldve 
pushed back the project. In the circumstances the investigator didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Sanlam to cover the tax charge. But Sanlam should pay the £500 offered if 
they hadnt already done so. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he wouldnt have gone ahead with the renovations if hed been 
given the correct information. He said there was no reason hed want to incur the large tax 
charge and so hed have waited and completed the renovations in a different way. 
The investigator considered Mr Bs comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He set out his understanding of Mr Bs financial position at the time. The renovation works 
had been going on for the past five years and were still continuing. Mr B had needed the 
money to meet the ongoing renovation costs and he had no other source of funding. The 
works had already begun when Mr B had approached Ergowealth in April 2021. The 
investigator maintained Mr B wasnt in a position to wait. 
In response, Mr B referred to the report from Ergowealth which recorded he had £300,000 
worth of US stocks and his partner had £165,000 in their own ISA in addition to the £400,000 
in Mr Bs ISA to cover the mortgage. So they both had access to other monies which 
wouldnt incur any tax charge. The investigator replied saying hed taken the report into 
account but thered been no discussion about using the funds Mr B had mentioned to pay for 
the renovation works. 
The investigator told Mr B and Sanlam that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman 
and invited any further final comments. Sanlam didnt want to add anything. Mr B said the 
correspondence hed received from Scottish Widows (its original and second final response 
letters dated 8 February 2022 and 24 May 2022 and the letter dated 7 November 2022 to 
Ergowealth) showed that both companies (Scottish Widows and Ergowealth) had made 
significant errors. 
Mr B pointed out that hed been paying for a professional service (£6,000 pa) which he didnt 
get. He said he hadnt been given the correct information to make an informed decision 
about the most tax efficient way to draw the funds required for the renovation work. If hed 
been aware that only a small portion of the money hed requested would be tax free, hed 
have taken the funds from his ISA immediately and drawn the funds from the pension at a later date in the hope that the LTA would be increased in line with inflation which wouldve 
been a reasonable assumption. In fact the LTA had now been abolished. Although that 
couldnt have been foreseen, had he been given better advice, he mightve been in a 
position to benefit from that. 
In its revised final decision letter Scottish Widows said that it had initially agreed that it was 
responsible for not identifying that Mr B had gone over his LTA. But Scottish Widows had 
now seen that, ahead of each designation, Scottish Widows had been informed by a 
representative from Ergowealth that Mr B had sufficient unused LTA to permit the 
designation to be made without any liability to a LTA charge arising. Scottish Widows said it 
is ultimately reliant on information provided by or on behalf of a customer to calculate if any 
LTA tax charge is due and Ergowealth was acting as Mr Bs agent and Scottish Widows was 
reasonably entitled to rely on the information given. 
Scottish Widows set out a timeline. Amongst other things Scottish Widows referred to 
information issued in August 2020 confirming how much of Mr Bs protected LTA of 
£1,250,000 had been used. And to a telephone call in April 2021 to Ergowealth confirming 
that Mr B had used 96% of his LTA. An email was also issued. Scottish Widows then 
received a call later that month in respect of a designation of £120,000.  Scottish Widows 
accepted, having asked Ergowealths representative if Mr B had sufficient remaining LTA 
and been told he did, that Scottish Widows then failed to check. The same happened when a 
further designation was requested in September 2021. It wasnt until November 2021 in 
connection with a request to complete a full designation for the remainder of the tax free 
cash entitlement, that the overpayments came to light. By then a further cash payment had 
already been made to Mr B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only considering here Mr Bs complaint about Ergowealth. Other parties were involved, 
notably Scottish Widows. Im only considering Ergowealths part in the matter. 
Theres no dispute that Mr B was given incorrect advice by Ergowealth as to what proportion 
of his LTA remained unused and how much tax free cash he could still take. So to that 
extent his complaint should be upheld. But I also have to consider if, as a result of 
Ergowealths incorrect advice, Mr B suffered any financial loss and/or material distress 
and/or inconvenience. 
As far as any financial loss is concerned, Mr B is going to suffer a LTA tax charge. The 
amount will depend on what he decides to do. I dont know if Mr B has told Scottish Widows 
what he wants to do. Mr B may be awaiting the outcome of this complaint before coming to a 
decision. But simply because some tax charge will be payable by Mr B (and I know that 
whatever option he selects the LTA charge will be very substantial) that doesnt mean 
Ergowealth must be responsible. 
In awarding redress our aim is to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if the business 
concerned had dealt with things properly. So here Ergowealth shouldve advised Mr B that 
he could only take a further £12,500 tax free cash and that if he took more hed be subject to 
a LTA tax charge. 
Mr B maintains if hed been so advised he wouldnt have gone ahead and taken the lump 
sums anyway. I can of course understand that  no one would really want to do something 
which would mean incurring a very substantial tax charge. But sometimes theres no real alternative. Thats essentially what the investigator said  that Mr B needed the money and 
hed still have gone ahead even if hed known the correct position. On balance, and although 
I know Mr B will be unhappy, I agree with the investigator.  
To explain the basis on which Ive reached that conclusion, where, as here, theres a dispute 
about what wouldve happened, we reach our decisions on the balance of probabilities, that 
is what we consider is likely to have happened based on the information and evidence weve 
seen and the wider circumstances. And, in looking at what Mr B would likely have done, we 
take into account the circumstances prevailing at the time and without using the benefit of 
hindsight. 
Theres no dispute that Mr B wanted to raise money to continue to fund renovations to his 
house and estate. The renovation project had been underway for some years, was ongoing 
and extensive. I think finding the funds to allow the work to continue wouldve been a priority 
for him. Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve simply waited until he might have been in a 
position to complete the renovations in some other way. 
As to whether Mr B couldve funded the renovations differently, I note he initially confirmed to 
the investigator that it wasnt open to him to do that  he said he wasnt in a position to fund 
the further renovations from his savings which were needed to repay his mortgage and that 
his only option was to use the tax free cash from his pension. Mr B didnt indicate that there 
was any possibility of raising money from any other source, such as using the savings hed 
earmarked to repay his mortgage or accessing savings held by someone else, nor did he 
say he was prepared to liquidate his share holdings. On that basis the investigator 
concluded Mr B wouldve gone ahead anyway as he didnt have any real option. 
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to say that Mr B wouldnt have gone ahead or that 
hed have accessed other funds. It seems hed been funding the renovations from his 
pension and, even though hed largely exhausted his tax free cash, from what Ive seen, I 
think hed have continued to fund the work from his pension. 
Theres another issue which Ive considered  whether Mr B shouldve accepted what 
Ergowealth said about his remaining unused LTA. I note here Mr Bs comments about 
paying substantial annual fees for professional advice. But in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable well look at all the circumstances of the particular case. We sometimes wont 
uphold a complaint even though incorrect advice or information has been given if there was 
information from another source which made the position clear or shouldve made the 
consumer cautious about accepting an assurance that nothing was amiss. 
As Fixed Protection 2016 had been obtained Mr B knew he had a protected LTA of 
£1,250,000. Up until August 2020 hed crystallised £1,200,000 of his pension fund and 
released £300,000 by way of PCLS payments. The total LTA used was 96%. I think Mr B 
wouldve been aware in 2021 that hed already crystallised the bulk of his pension and that 
thered be little remaining headroom for further tax free PCLS. Hed already crystallised 
£1,200,000 which only left £50,000 uncrystallised which would give him a final PCLS of 
£12,500. 
I understand Mr B had received a P60 on 10 May 2021 for the tax year 2020/2021 which 
confirmed hed used 96% of his LTA. That was around the time he took the further £30,000. 
And it seems that Mr B was surprised when he was told how much tax free cash he had left 
to take. I know Mr B says he did query things with Ergowealth. And Scottish Widows 
appears to have relied on information from Ergowealth and accepts it shouldve checked 
what it was told by Ergowealth. I think, if Mr B had queried things direct with Scottish 
Widows, the correct position wouldve very quickly come to light.I know Mr B is likely to be very unhappy with my decision. But I hope Ive explained the basis 
on which we decide complaints and why, in this particular case, Im unable to conclude, on 
balance, and given his circumstances, that Mr B wouldve acted differently had he been 
given correct advice. 
An offer of £500 has been made. Its intended to reflect the distress and inconvenience (as 
opposed to any financial loss) Mr Bs suffered in consequence of Ergowealths incorrect 
advice. I think the offer is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Sanlam Partnerships Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Sanlam Partnerships Limited should pay £500 to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman