DRN-1514795
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 27 years ago, and I cant know how precise  someones 
memory would be, of all of the details of an event so many years later. Ive borne in mind 
these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all cases, Ive still had 
to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence there is. In a case 
such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr B have said they were told they must have PPI otherwise the loan would 
probably not be agreed. They say they didnt tick the box to take the PPI and this was done 
by the mortgage adviser. 
I do no doubt that Mr and Mrs B are sure that they are remembering the details accurately. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude Bradford & Bingley acted in this way, unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. I realise this puts Mr and Mrs B in a difficult 
situation so many years later; but where someone has said another person or organisation 
has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Also I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. 
The only hard evidence I have is the mortgage application, which does at least present the 
PPI as a choice. And without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Bs genuine consent.  
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr B as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. 
It would have been for Mrs and Mr B to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr B received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need 
to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mrs and Mr B in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Bradford & Bingley gave details about the main costs of the PPI on the application form, but I 
cant say how well it explained the other details of the PPI, including the limitations on 
claiming. But I dont think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether Mrs and Mr B took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were 
greater than Mrs and Mr Bs sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So 
its unlikely more information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs and Mr B would have been affected by any of these. 
So my overall conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But Bradford & Bingley has paid 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B because: 
 Bradford & Bingley got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs and Mr B about that. Because 
Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mrs and Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B. But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to 
Mrs and Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman