DRN-3838188
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs P contacted British Gas to send an engineer. Mrs P complained to British Gas because 
it sent multiple engineers who didnt work for British Gas and British Gas had also failed to 
provide correct parts. Mrs P also complained about customer service issues, including that 
she was told British Gas didnt offer its winter contingency at that time of year.
When British Gas replied, it accepted that incorrect engineers had been sent and there had 
been multiple call-outs. It apologised for the inconvenience and stress caused and the poor 
customer service. It offered £105 compensation and said it would be happy to refund up to 
£50 for fan heaters if Mrs P sent receipts.
So, Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the 
compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances. However, he thought it was 
likely British Gas had misadvised Mrs P about heaters. So, he said British Gas should pay 
£50 plus interest for the heaters without requiring receipts.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
British Gas has accepted there were delays and customer service issues when it dealt with 
Mrs Ps claim. This included issues with sending engineers, incorrect parts being delivered 
to Mrs Ps home and Mrs P needing to chase progress on the claim. British Gas offered Mrs 
P £105 compensation for the issues she raised. I think that is fair in the circumstances and I 
dont require it to pay any further compensation.
When British Gas replied to the complaint, it also said it would pay for heaters up to £50, 
subject to Mrs P providing receipts. Mrs P complained that she had been given incorrect 
advice about British Gass winter contingency. She said she was told it didnt apply in Spring, 
which was when she requested an engineer. British Gas has told this service there wasnt 
evidence to show Mrs P was given incorrect advice and that it is reasonable for it to require 
receipts. 
I would normally think it was reasonable for a consumer to provide evidence of costs, such 
as for buying heaters. But, in this instance, the issue was that Mrs P has said she specifically 
asked about heaters and was given wrong advice. Ive listened to Mrs Ps explanation to this 
service of what happened and I found what she said persuasive. British Gas doesnt have 
the call recordings, although it did provide some notes of conversations between it and Mrs 
P. I cant say for certain what was discussed but, on the balance of probabilities, I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs P was misadvised about the heaters. As a result of this, Mrs P 
has said she didnt keep the receipts for heaters she bought. So, based on what Ive seen, I 
think British Gas should pay Mrs P £50 plus interest for heaters and without requiring 
receipts.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mrs P £50 plus interest for heaters and without requiring receipts.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P £50 plus 8% simple interest. The interest should 
be calculated from the date on which Mrs P first made the claim which is the subject of this 
complaint to the date on which British Gas makes the payment.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman