DRN-4123107
The complaint
Mr M has complained about costs incurred in connection with his van finance agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr M entered into a finance agreement with Moneybarn, fort a used van. 
However, he reported issues with it, and an independent inspection was carried out. This 
concluded that there had been a fault at the point of supply. It was agreed that Mr M could 
reject the van. However, Moneybarn said it would deduct £2,000 from the refund it was 
proposing to pay, because there had been drive-on damage.
In summary, Moneybarn said it would retain the payments Mr M had made under the 
agreement, to cover fair use. It would also refund £857.20, of the £2,857.20 that Mr M had 
paid to hire a van to keep him mobile. It wouldnt refund the remaining £2,000, because of 
the drive-on damage that had been caused. It also said it would pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M was unhappy with this, so complained to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened, but thought Moneybarns offer had been fair. She was satisfied that 
Mr M had fair use of the van, until the fault presented itself on 5 September, so he should not 
be refunded his monthly repayments for this period. 
She also said that its reasonable to think that if there was a major oil leak, as indicated in 
the report, that this would cause further damage if the van was driven. And the van had been 
driven around 961 miles between when Mr M reported the fault, to when the inspection took 
place. So, she thought a deduction from the hire van costs Mr M incurred was fair to 
represent this. She was also satisfied that the £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience was in line with what shed have recommended.
Mr C disagreed. He said that the dealer said the issue could have been caused when the 
van was serviced in the August, but as it hadnt been serviced, it was unfair to base anything 
on this. The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons she gave. As 
regards the service, I agree with Mr M that no service was carried out, and the damage had 
been present/developing at the point of supply. But, the £2,000 is being retained as a result 
of drive-on damage, and I think this is fair, regardless of the cause of the fault. I agree that it 
would have been reasonably clear the van shouldnt continue to be driven, after the fault 
occurred.
Accordingly, Im persuaded that Moneybarns offer was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as 
Moneybarn, made a fair offer, which it is open to Mr M to accept, if he hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman