DRN-4126656
The complaint
Mr B has complained that, after Keystone Financial Ltd had transferred his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a self invested personal pension (SIPP), it failed to 
ensure that they were invested and that it didnt then undertake the annual review for which 
he was paying it.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out the background to the complaint in 
his assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Keystones Initial Discovery Questionnaire captured details of Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances in order for it to provide him with appropriate advice. Keystone also assessed 
his attitude to investment risk. 
Keystone then wrote to Mr B with its Engagement Letter on 28 September 2017, which set 
out the agreed service it would provide.
It provided an advice report in which Keystone explained that it had evaluated whether Mr B 
should accept the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) offered for his deferred OPS 
benefits in his ex-employers pension scheme and Keystone recommended that he accept 
this, start a new SIPP with AJ Bell, and transfer his OPS benefits into it.
Keystone received the CETV from the OPS on 10 January 2018.
Keystone provided a copy of a file note, an illustration, and an investment report to evidence 
its contact with Mr B regarding the intended investment of his pensions savings.
The advice report explained that Mr B equated to a risk profile of 4 on a scale of 1 to 10, 
where 1 was the lowest risk and 10 was the highest  it considered this to be low/medium 
risk. Keystones recommendation was therefore to split the investment within the SIPP 
between a Prudential Trustee investment Plan (TIP) invested in the PruFund Growth Fund 
and two discretionary funds with Parmenion, split equally between their passive risk rated 4 
portfolio and active risk rated 4 portfolio.
 
But that investment ultimately didnt happen in 2018.
AJ Bell sent annual statements to Mr B from June 2018 which, amongst other things, 
provided him with a SIPP valuation summary and a transaction summary.
Mr B has said that, upon being prompted by his wife, he realised that he hadnt heard 
anything about his pension for a while and, after contacting Keystone, it came to light that his 
pension savings hadnt been invested. 
Mr B complained to Keystone, and it accepted partial responsibility for the lack of investment 
but also felt that Mr B should shoulder some of the responsibility. It therefore calculated Mr 
Bs loss and offered him 50% of this (£62,323.31), which it discounted to £52,974.81 to allow 
for it being invested in a pension. It also agreed to refund the ongoing advice fees of 
£5,521.00. 
In Keystones consideration of the complaint, it also addressed the need to invest the funds
and made a recommendation in an email dated 23 May 2022. However, Mr B wanted to 
know the impact of the missed investment opportunity before proceeding and the 
investigator understood that, as at the point of issuing his assessment, Mr B still hadnt 
invested his SIPP funds.
Mr B was dissatisfied with Keystones offer, and so he referred his complaint to this service 
for an impartial review.
The investigator who assessed the complaint thought that it should be upheld, noting that Mr 
B hadnt complained about the advice to transfer, but saying the following in summary about 
the service provided to Mr B:
It was important for Keystone to ensure that it provided Mr B with clear information 
about how and when to invest his pension funds.
Keystone had committed to assisting Mr B fully with the implementation of its 
recommendations and to provide an ongoing annual advisory service, but it hadnt 
provided either aspect.
The investment recommendation seemed reasonable, given Mr Hs recorded attitude 
to risk.
There was a file note indicating that a call took place between Mr H and the Keystone 
adviser on 17 January 2018 about investing the funds, in which Mr H was recorded 
as asking to hold off investing whilst financial markets were volatile. But Mr B had 
said that he made no such request, and market movements at the time didnt match 
the description in that phone call.
A further note dated 8 May 2018 referred to a conversation about investing as the 
markets were by then more settled, and so an appointment was booked for 16 May 
2018 to complete the investment forms. But the appointment didnt take place and 
the forms were left at Mr Bs address, as he was out. Although Mr B had disputed 
this, the investigator was satisfied that discussions did take place as the 
documentation (investment illustrations) supported this.
But it wasnt reasonable to have expected Mr B to have dealt with the forms and 
investment of his pension funds by himself, and Keystone had itself acknowledged 
that it didnt follow this up.
Keystone had a regulatory responsibility to ensure that Mr Bs pension funds were 
invested in line with the recommendation, and it didnt seem to be the case that it had 
informed Mr B of the risks of being outside of, or trying to time, the market.
If it had genuinely been Mr Bs decision to remain uninvested, then the investigator 
would have expected to see a revised recommendation report to cover this. In the 
absence of such confirmation, he concluded that Mr B had expected his pension 
funds to be invested immediately.Keystone had argued that the annual reports ought to have made Mr B aware that 
his pension funds werent invested. But although the value of the SIPP was 
confirmed in the early pages of the reports, it wasnt until further into the report that 
the breakdown of holdings was shown. And given the lack of investments, Mr Bs 
reports referred only to the value held in an Investcentre SIPP Cash Account.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the annual reports were clear enough for Mr 
B, as an inexperienced investor, to have realised that his funds hadnt been invested 
as intended. He also wouldnt have been aware from reading the reports that hed 
suffered any investment loss.
But even if he took a different view on the matter of the reports, the ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring that Mr Bs pension funds were invested lay with Keystone. 
And had it provided any ongoing advice, the fact that they werent would have been 
identified much sooner.
The investigator concluded that Keystone was responsible for the full loss suffered by Mr B 
through his pension funds not being invested. But he didnt think that it should be 
accountable for any losses after it had a new investment recommendation on 23 May 2022, 
as it would be expected that Mr B would act to mitigate any losses by taking appropriate 
action.
As such, he recommended that Keystone compare the actual value of Mr Bs SIPP with its 
notional value, had the SIPP funds been invested as intended, with the loss assessment 
running up to 23 May 2022. If there was a loss, Keystone should compensate Mr B for this. 
Any advice fees should also be effectively reinstated within the SIPP.
Any loss should in the first instance be paid into Mr Bs pension plan, but if this wasnt 
possible, then it should be paid to him directly, with a notional deduction for the basic rate 
income tax he would have paid on the non-tax free cash element.
The investigator also said that Keystone should pay Mr B £300 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered as a result of his pension funds not being invested.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation, but Keystone disagreed, commenting 
further as follows:
Although the investigator had said that Mr B had only realised the problem after 
calling Keystone, at other points Mr B had said that he found out that the funds were 
uninvested after calling the SIPP provider. And the original complaint was referred to 
Keystone after Mr B had reviewed a SIPP statement from September 2021 in May 
2022.
The call of 17 January 2018 related to the volatility in financial markets at that time, 
and given the sizeable sum which was to be invested, any fluctuations might 
reasonably have made Mr B hesitant and cautious. This was a pattern of behaviour, 
as also evidenced by Mr B not having invested following the recommendation it 
provided in May 2022.
Although it acknowledged that it hadnt followed up the failed appointment when Mr 
B had been out, it didnt think it was fair to say that Keystone had expected Mr B to fill 
in the forms and deal with the investment himself  it had intended to provide that 
assistance.Mr Bs pension funds couldnt have been invested without his formal instructions to 
do so and the accompanying forms. And as Mr B hadnt attended the pre-booked 
appointment to complete the investment forms, it couldnt be reasonably assumed 
that Mr B expected to be invested from May 2018.
There were responsibilities on customers when receiving SIPP statements, and 
failure to read the content wouldnt be the responsibility of the advising firm, but of 
the customer. Mr B had suggested that he didnt receive such statements, but it 
thought it was more likely than not that they were both issued and received, given 
that they were correctly addressed.
That Mr B hadnt read the content of the September 2021 statement until May 2022 
wasnt Keystones fault.
Addressing the clarity of the annual statements, Keystone said that Mr B wouldnt 
need to be a sophisticated or experienced investor to be able to conclude that the 
funds were held in cash. This was highlighted under a bold heading called cash and 
borrowing. And Keystone provided an excerpt from the 2018 statement as an 
example.
In conclusion, Keystone said that it had updated its offer to reflect the calculation being taken 
up to 23 May 2022, with the notional deduction for tax as recommended by the investigator. 
The total compensation would be £124,609. 
But it maintained the position that it wasnt solely responsible for Mr Bs losses, saying that, 
given the lack of investment meeting and the completion of the necessary instructions, there 
was no way that Mr B could have been under the impression that his pension funds were 
invested. And it wouldnt have been appropriate to proceed without Mr Bs instructions.
The investigator offered Mr B the opportunity to comment upon Keystones response, and he 
said the following:
He didnt possess any financial knowledge, and was therefore reliant upon Keystone 
to act in his best interests.
Hed signed an abundance of forms and he thought hed be investing in the 
recommended funds. He wasnt asked to sign anything else and hed already 
consented to his Keystone financial adviser having access to all of the funds.
Hes paid a significant amount of money for services he hasnt received.
Keystone also then confirmed in November 2022 that Mr B had contacted one of its advisers 
to invest his pension funds, and during that exercise it had come to light that Mr B had 
around £82,000 invested in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and a General Investment 
Accounts (GIAs). 
As such, it considered that Mr B was likely to possess some financial knowledge and 
experience of investing.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provision decision on the complaint on 3 April 2023, in which I set out my reasons 
for partially upholding it. The following is an extract from that decision:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly noted what Keystone has more latterly said about Mr Bs likely investment 
knowledge, given his ISA and GIA investments. And I think its fair to say that this might 
reasonably bestow upon Mr B some knowledge of investing, but those are quite mainstream 
products, and dont have the complexities associated with pensions matters. 
Further, as Mr B has rightly said, he was paying a significant amount of money to Keystone 
to help him transfer his OPS benefits and for its subsequent investment recommendation. As 
such, whilst I accept that Mr B may have had some investment experience, I think, as hes 
said, he was largely reliant (and entitled to be so) upon Keystone to guide him through the 
transfer and reinvestment process.
But I also think its right to say that it wouldnt have been appropriate for Keystone to 
proceed without Mr Bs instructions in May 2018, and this is especially the case if Im to 
consider the delay conversation in January 2018. And I further think Keystone makes a 
reasonable argument about there being other points  for example following the 
recommendation in May 2022 - at which Mr B has exhibited hesitancy or caution, no doubt 
relating to the febrile state of financial markets at those times. So it would have been the 
right course of action to ensure that Mr B was happy to proceed in May 2018. 
That appointment didnt happen, due to, as I think is accepted by both parties, Mr B being 
elsewhere. But as acknowledged by Keystone, it should have followed this up. And of the 
two parties, Keystone was the firm of professional advisers with the responsibility to ensure 
that its original recommendation was executed, or as noted by the investigator, re-evaluate 
the position and formally record any reasons as to why Mr B had decided to not invest at that 
point.
And even then, the regular reviews for which Mr B was paying ought to have reassessed this 
position on a yearly basis  but these didnt happen. 
I do, however, think that the points Keystone has made about mitigation arent 
unreasonable. Irrespective of whether there was a duty upon Mr B to read his statements 
and digest the contents, theres also my overriding imperative to decide this case on the 
basis of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And although I note that Mr B has said that he didnt receive the annual SIPP statements, I 
think its reasonably clear that he did receive that of September 2021, which as far as Im 
aware had been sent to the same address as previous statements. And so, whilst it may be 
the case that Mr B doesnt recall receiving them, I think its more likely than not that they 
were sent, and also that they would have been received.
I further think that, although the cash basis of the SIPP investment may not have been on 
the first page of the statement, there would also have been very little change in value over 
the years and that, given Mr Bs seeming awareness of potential for volatility in financial 
markets, the lack of any substantial change in the value of his pension funds might 
reasonably have prompted him to look at how they were invested. 
There is also then Mr Bs general historical reticence to invest, both in January 2018 and 
then again when made aware of the investment recommendation in May 2022. And I think 
that, although as Ive said above, it was Keystones responsibility to contact Mr B again after 
the failed appointment in May 2018, Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
purpose of that meeting and that therefore that there might have been an issue with the 
investment of his pension funds.Further, whilst I think, on balance, that its possible, and perhaps probable, that Mr B would 
have invested as intended in May 2018, I dont think I can entirely rule out the possibility that 
he would have stayed his hand with regard to investment at that point as well.
And so I currently think that a fair and reasonable outcome here would be that proposed by 
Keystone  i.e. that it pays half of the loss caused by Mr B not having been invested in the 
proposed funds.  
But as no reviews were provided to Mr B, I think that the investigators proposal that the 
amounts deducted from the pension plan in respect of these be reinstated, as if they hadnt 
been removed, is appropriate.
Putting things right
Keystone should determine the notional value of the SIPP, as at the date of any final 
decision along these lines, had Mr Bs pension funds been invested two weeks after the 
failed meeting in May 2018, which I think reasonably provides enough time for a further 
meeting to be arranged and the pension funds to be invested. This notional value should 
also take account of the annual fees for the reviews not being taken from the pension funds.
This should be compared against the actual value of Mr Bs SIPP, as at the same date. If the 
notional value is higher, then Keystone should in the first instance pay into Mr Bs SIPP on 
his behalf to make it up to the notional value, taking account of any available/unused tax 
relief, investment charges, and annual allowance and lifetime allowance protection issues.
If payment into the SIPP isnt possible, Keystone should pay the amount of any loss directly 
to Mr B, but with a notional deduction of 15% to reflect the assumed basic rate tax that he 
would pay on 75% of his pension benefits (allowing for tax free cash).
I do think this matter might reasonably have caused Mr B some concern, and Ive thought 
carefully about whether a further payment in respect of this would be warranted here, as was 
recommended by the investigator, but I do also need to take into account the fact that 
Keystone provided an investment recommendation in May 2022, which, as Ive noted above, 
Mr B didnt action immediately  as might be expected of someone who was concerned 
about their funds being uninvested.
And so I dont currently think that a further payment would be warranted in this case. 
In response, Mr B said the following:
With regard to Keystones comments on his pattern of behaviour from 2018 to 2022, 
he and his wife had been convinced that all of the money had been invested as 
discussed with Keystone and confirmed by the associated paperwork.
In 2022, Keystone suggested through a different adviser that he invest his pension 
funds, but he asked to hold off as he didnt think it was sensible to invest his money 
with a company which had made errors over the past four years.
He sent Keystone emails confirming this at the end of May 2022 and again in June 
2022, and he also said in that communication that he wanted to know the outcome of 
this services investigation before deciding what to do next.
In November 2022, Mr B sent the adviser an email asking him to look at investing his 
pension funds, which was a decision he came to on the basis of having been 
informed that it might be many months before his complaint was resolved with this service. And the adviser gave him confidence that his money would be invested in 
his best interests.
Mr B provided the emails to which he referred.
Keystone wished to clarify that the proposed redress was 50% of the loss to be paid as 
compensation, and if this was the case, then it was prepared to pay this, along with the fees 
which had been taken being reinstated into the pension plan.
The investigator confirmed that the redress proposal was for Keystone to pay 50% of any 
loss to both Keystone and Mr B.
Mr B acknowledged this, enquiring as to how the provisional decision could be so different 
from the investigators conclusions, but made no further submissions.
Keystone acknowledged confirmation of the redress proposal, and reiterated its offer on the 
above basis if Mr B was in agreement with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Bs further comments as to why he held off investing his pension funds once 
hed realised that they hadnt previously been invested, as hed thought was the case. Im 
also grateful to him for providing the emails which he exchanged with the adviser about this.
But whilst I accept that he might have been cautious about investing at that time, other 
aspects of his email correspondence are nevertheless indicative of thought being given to 
whether or not investing the cash would have been financially advantageous, not just on the 
basis of uncertainty over the outcome of the complaint referred to this service, but due to 
movements in financial markets (as had seemingly also been the case in January 2018). 
For example, in the email of 16 June 2022, Mr B noted that the funds into which the adviser 
had suggested he invest had lost around 4% in value over the preceding three weeks, and 
so he considered it to not really be the end of the world for the money to have remained in 
cash.
I do also remain of the view that, whilst acknowledging what Mr B has said about believing 
his pension funds had been invested from 2018 onwards as had been recommended, the 
annual statements ought reasonably to have placed him on notice that that they remained in 
cash.
But I also maintain that Keystone had a responsibility to follow up the failed meeting of May 
2018 to revisit the proposed investment strategy with Mr B, and had it done so, and it was 
the case that Mr B remained cautious about investing his pension funds  as hed been in 
January 2018  then this could have been discussed and recorded accordingly.
And so, overall, I think that the proposed redress as set out in the provision decision remains 
the right outcome here. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr B into the position hed now be in, but for the failure to invest his pension 
funds  albeit with the caveat around the potential for his own mitigation of any such losses as set out above and in the provisional decision
Keystone Financial Ltd should therefore determine the notional value of the SIPP, as at the 
date of this final decision, had Mr Bs pension funds been invested two weeks after the 
failed meeting in May 2018, which I think reasonably provides enough time for a further 
meeting to be arranged and the pension funds to be invested. This notional value should 
also take account of the annual fees for the reviews not being taken from the pension funds.
This should be compared against the actual value of Mr Bs SIPP, as at the same date. If the 
notional value is higher, then Keystone Financial Ltd should in the first instance pay into Mr 
Bs SIPP on his behalf to make it up to 50% of the overall difference, taking account of any 
available/unused tax relief, investment charges, and annual allowance and lifetime 
allowance protection issues.
If payment into the SIPP isnt possible, Keystone Financial Ltd should pay the amount of any 
loss directly to Mr B, but with a notional deduction of 15% to reflect the assumed basic rate 
tax that he would pay on 75% of his pension benefits (allowing for tax free cash).
Payment of any compensation amount should be made within 28 days of Keystone Financial 
Ltd being notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, simple interest at the rate of 
8% pa should be added to the compensation amount from the date of this decision to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Keystone Financial Ltd to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman