DRN-2656381
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited wants to class damage to her property as a new 
subsidence claim instead of the continuation of a previous one. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that Aviva hasnt 
acted unreasonably. I do so for the following reasons:
Miss Ts previous claim for subsidence was concluded in 2007 when a structural 
adequacy certificate was provided. 
The current damage wasnt apparent until late 2018. Had the damage been related to 
the previous claim, or a poor repair, I would have thought it would have become 
apparent a lot earlier than this.
Given the time that has passed, details of the previous claim are limited. I have 
however been able to review the limited information Aviva has been able to provide 
and the extracts of the report Miss T has been able to send me. 
Simply because the damage is in the same area doesnt necessarily mean it is 
related to a previous claim.
Having reviewed the information available from the previous claim, the damage 
report for the current issue and the drainage survey that has been produced. Im 
satisfied Aviva has shown the current damage is more likely than not related to a new 
episode of subsidence. Miss T will therefore need to pay any applicable excess 
associated with the new claim. 
I recognise Miss T was told by a builder she appointed that they thought the damage 
was related to the previous claim and the surveyor that came to site didnt rule that 
out. However subsequent investigation of the drains showed there were issues with 
them. Again, while repairs may have taken place previously to the same run, this 
doesnt automatically mean any repair has failed. It may simply be the case there is 
new damage. 
I understand Miss T was incorrectly told her excess was £5,000 and because of this 
she maybe better off arranging the repairs herself. However, I can see this matter 
was resolved quickly and Miss T was told her correct excess was £1,000. I can see 
Aviva has apologised for any miscommunication by the surveyor. I think this is 
sufficient and I wont be recommending Aviva take any further action in relation to 
this. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. I think Aviva has acted fairly and 
reasonably in concluding the damage to Miss Ts property should be classed as a new claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman