DRN-2815191
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision not 
to consider her claim for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit because of an 
exclusion on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a life and critical illness policy with L&G in 2014. The policy included TPD 
cover as part of the critical illness benefit. 
In 2020 Mrs G contacted L&G about making a TPD claim as shed been diagnosed with 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and was unable to work. L&G refused to look at the 
claim because of an exclusion in Mrs Gs policy about claims concerning mental disorders. It 
said the exclusion was put in place due to treatment Mrs G had for stress, anxiety and 
depression before she took the policy out.  
Mrs G complained to L&G. She said she wasnt aware of the exclusion and wouldve 
challenged it if she had been. Mrs G also questioned whether L&G was right to classify 
PTSD as a mental disorder.
L&G didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It said when she applied for the policy, it came to light 
that shed undergone treatment for stress, anxiety and depression. And so, an exclusion was 
applied to her policy. L&G also said Mrs G was told about the exclusion and the policy was 
accepted on the agreed terms with all policy documentation issued as standard. 
Mrs G didnt agree and referred her complaint to our service. She maintained she wasnt 
suffering from a mental disorder when she applied for the policy. And that she was never told 
about the exclusion. She wanted L&G to consider her TPD claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said L&Gs decision to apply 
the mental disorder exclusion to Mrs Gs TPD claim for PTSD was fair. 
In terms of the exclusion itself, our investigator said it was for L&G to determine the terms on 
which it was prepared to offer cover to Mrs G. And he was satisfied that the information L&G 
received as part of the application process in 2014 showed she had been treated for anxiety 
and depression in 2013  and that in line with the underwriting criteria  the exclusion did 
apply. Our investigator was also satisfied L&G had made Mrs G aware of the exclusion 
before agreeing to the policy. 
Mrs G disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she 
had medical evidence to show she had no history of mental illness prior to the application  
hence why she didnt disclose as such on the application form when asked about being 
treated for a mental illness. 
Mrs G said L&G was treating her unfairly because shed been going through a difficult time 
and needed counselling before she took the policy out. She maintained she was not 
suffering from anxiety and depression  and the medication shed been prescribed wasnt 
warranted. Mrs G said whether she received confirmation of the exclusion wasnt her main 
concern  rather she was disputing L&Gs decision to include the exclusion in the terms and 
conditions of her policy. Mrs G also said she had enough evidence to support her TPD claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs G and Id like to assure her I 
havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence 
she and L&G have provided to us. Id like to assure Mrs G that if I dont mention a particular 
point, its not because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the 
outcome.
I should firstly point out that Ive not considered the merits of Mrs Gs TPD claim. Ive also 
not made a finding on whether Mrs G answered the question on the application form about 
being treated for a mental illness correctly. My review has focused on whether L&G acted 
reasonably by adding the exclusion to Mrs Gs policy terms and conditions  and if that 
exclusion has been correctly and fairly applied to her TPD claim. 
The exclusion
As our investigator has explained to Mrs G, we cant get involved in L&Gs business 
decisions  which includes its decision on what terms to offer Mrs G life and critical illness 
cover. But I can look at whether L&G has treated Mrs G fairly, and in the same way it would 
treat other customers. 
I can see that when Mrs G applied for the policy, she disclosed to L&G shed had 
investigations into breast lumps. L&G needed to investigate this further, and so 
requested Mrs Gs medical records. I cant see anything unreasonable in L&Gs actions 
here. 
L&G saw from Mrs Gs medical records that shed undergone treatment for stress, anxiety 
and depression in 2013, which shed not disclosed on her application form. 
Mrs G disputes this diagnosis and the need for medication. Shes said she was going 
through a difficult time in 2013 for which she needed counselling  but didnt consider herself 
to be suffering from a mental disorder. And Mrs G has also referred to medical evidence that 
she says shows she wasnt suffering from a mental disorder prior to her PTSD diagnosis in 
2018. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G has told us. Its not disputed that her PTSD 
diagnosis wasnt until 2018  nor is there any suggestion that the difficulties Mrs G was 
having in 2013 were linked to her later PTSD diagnosis. But Im not persuaded L&G has 
acted unfairly here based on the medical evidence available. 
The application Mrs G completed included the following question: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse of other health professional for:   anxiety, depression or any 
mental illness thats required treatment or counselling  
So, this is an area L&G considers when deciding on what terms it offers cover. In addition, 
the above question talks about suffering from anxiety, depression or any mental illness for 
which treatment or counselling was required. In other words, suffering from, and being 
treated for, anxiety and depression is relevant here  regardless of any formal diagnosis of a 
mental illness that may or may not have come later. Ive looked at the medical records and can see reference to Mrs G being treated for stress, 
anxiety and depression in 2013 for which she was prescribed medication. Shes also said 
that she received counselling. So, whilst I understand Mrs Gs strength of feeling, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for L&G to act on this information as part of its risk assessment in 
offering cover to her.  
On becoming aware of Mrs Gs treatment for stress, anxiety and depression in 2013, L&G 
added the following exclusion to her policy:
No critical illness claim shall be admitted in respect of the disablement of [Mrs G] resulting 
from anxiety state, depression or any mental, functional or nervous disorder. 
Ive looked carefully at L&Gs unwriting criteria. In doing so I can see that applying an 
exclusion to Mrs Gs policy was part of L&Gs standard approach in cases like hers where 
there was a history of treatment for stress, anxiety and depression. And so, I cant say L&G 
has treated Mrs G unfairly in adding the exclusion to her policy terms.
Claim 
Ive also looked at whether L&G was right to apply the exclusion to Mrs Gs TPD claim. 
PTSD is not a listed critical illness under Mrs Gs policy. So, L&G was only able to consider a 
claim under the TPD benefit listed within the critical illness part of her policy. Mrs G was 
making a critical illness claim in respect of a mental disorder - PTSD. And in considering the 
wording of the exclusion above, Im satisfied L&G has acted in accordance with Mrs Gs 
policy terms and conditions by refusing to consider her claim. 
Did Mrs G know about the exclusion? 
Whilst not a substantive part of Mrs Gs complaint, Ive looked at whether L&G did enough to 
tell her about the exclusion so she could make an informed decision as to whether to take 
the policy out. 
I can see a letter was sent to Mrs G in December 2014 which outlined the exclusion. Its not 
clear if Mrs G received this letter  possibly because she changed address around that time. 
But given she signed and returned the check your details form in February 2015 and 
accepted the policy  I think L&G provided enough information to Mrs G about the policy and 
the exclusion to allow her to make an informed decision. The exclusion also appeared on 
Mrs Gs policy schedule which wouldve been provided to her when the policy started.  
Im really sorry to hear of Mrs Gs PTSD diagnosis and the difficulties its caused her. But 
taking everything into account, I think L&Gs decision to add an exclusion to her policy was 
fair, and so too was its decision to apply that exclusion to her TPD claim following her PTSD 
diagnosis. So, I wont be asking L&G to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman