DRN-3147592
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are business partners. They complain about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc 
handled their application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr H set up a business in 2009, which he ran as a sole trader. He banked with HSBC and 
held a business bank account in his sole name. 
The business was later run as a partnership between Mr and Mrs H, but Mr Hs HSBC 
account wasnt amended to reflect this and remained in his sole name.
On 23 March 2021, Mr H applied to HSBC on behalf of the partnership for a Bounce Back 
Loan. But HSBC declined the request, on the basis that the partnership didnt hold an 
account with the bank. 
Mr H liaised with HSBC to see if the application could proceed in some way and the bank 
looked into things. It said that a new account would need to be opened for the partnership in 
order to apply for the loan  but that it would be unable to do this in time, as the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme was closing to new applications on 31 March 2021.
Mr and Mrs H dont think HSBC treated them fairly. They think the bank shouldve done 
more to facilitate their application to the government-backed support they needed. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but while appreciating that 
theyd been left in a difficult position, he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. In 
summary, he said that the bank had correctly declined the application for the reason given 
and as it hadnt been notified of the change to the business structure. There was then 
insufficient time to find an alternative solution, in view of the Loan Scheme deadline. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view, as he still thought HSBCs decision to decline the 
application was unreasonable. So he asked that the matter be reconsidered and it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I have some sympathy for the position in which Mr and Mrs H 
found themselves, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
HSBC required applicants to hold or enter into a business relationship with it before it would 
provide a loan under the Scheme. While Mr H held an account with the bank, the partnership 
did not. There was, therefore, an error in the application that Mr H submitted  in that he 
selected the option to say that the partnership already held an account with HSBC (and gave 
his sole trader account details), whereas the appropriate option wouldve been that the 
partnership was applying to a new lender.
So when HSBC received an application from the partnership made through Mr Hs sole 
account, it identified a mismatch and declined the application. I think that was reasonable. 
While I note what Mr H says about his and Mrs Hs longstanding relationship with the bank, 
the fact that it did not have a recognised relationship with the partnership meant that further 
checks would always have been needed to ensure HSBC complied with its various 
requirements under the Scheme rules. Such checks were completed through the account 
opening process for new customers to the bank, as the partnership was.
Ideally, Mr and Mrs H would have reapplied on the correct basis as a new customer once the 
problem was identified  through which they wouldve been required to open a new account 
for the partnership. But unfortunately, the Loan Scheme was closing in a matter of days and 
HSBC advised that it wouldnt be able to process a new account application in time to 
facilitate a revised loan application. I dont think that was unreasonable, particularly in view 
of the demand for borrowing under the Loan Scheme that HSBC was dealing with at the 
time.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H feel theyve been unfairly deprived of access to the 
Loan Scheme. It seems to me that they were eligible for a loan and were it not for some 
administrative issues, they wouldve obtained it. But I think this was an unfortunate 
consequence of the account remaining in Mr Hs sole name and the fact that their application 
was only made a week before the Schemes closure  neither of which were the fault of 
HSBC. 
As Ive not found that HSBC handled Mr and Mrs Hs application unfairly, it follows that there 
is no basis on which I could require it to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman