DRN-4386659
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complain that Revolut Ltd wont refund them for the 
money lost when their director, Mr L  who brings this complaint on Ns behalf  fell victim to 
a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Around September 2022, Mr L was contacted by who by who he thought was his friend, 
recommending a cryptocurrency investment opportunity. He made three payments from Ns 
account with Revolut, to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange, and then on to the supposed 
trading platform. Unfortunately, his friend had been hacked and it was actually a scam.
Mr L complained to Revolut about what had happened. It didnt agree to refund him. It said 
there werent grounds to reclaim the funds through the chargeback scheme as the merchant 
paid directly provided the expected service (i.e. crediting the funds to the cryptocurrency 
account). 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things and came to the view that Revolut wasnt liable for the loss. He didnt think 
it had cause to be concerned about the payments at the time, as they appeared in line with 
previous spending. And he agreed that, in line with the scheme rules, chargeback claims 
wouldnt have succeeded. 
Mr L has appealed the investigators view. In summary, he explained that other large 
payments were directors loans to his personal account, or payments to HMRC, and so 
werent similar to the scam payments. He thinks Revolut ought to have been concerned 
because he hadnt paid a cryptocurrency merchant before  and it should have realised such 
merchants were more likely to be related to a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. While its agreed that Mr L was 
scammed, he did authorise the payments. So the starting position is that N is liable for them. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account. 
These are competing duties, so there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could be fraudulent  and responding appropriately to those concerns  and ensuring 
minimal disruption to legitimate payments. 
Mr L started by making two payments, both in the region of $2,000, to the same 
cryptocurrency merchant. Im not persuaded the merchant alone ought to have prompted 
fraud concerns. They provided a genuine cryptocurrency wallet and werent part of the scam. 
And Revolut offers accounts tailored towards cryptocurrency, so wouldnt see that type of 
payment/payee as particularly unexpected. So Im not persuaded the fact it was a 
cryptocurrency merchant, in and of itself, warranted intervention. 
Nor do I think the fact Mr L hadnt paid that type of merchant before was unusual enough to 
have prompted concern. That can, and will, happen for many legitimate reasons. The 
payments have to be considered within the wider context of the account activity. This was a 
business account, and it didnt look uncharacteristic for N to make payments of this size. So I 
can understand why Revolut didnt identify them as suspicious.
While I appreciate the third and final payment was higher (at £7,000), looking at it in the 
context of Ns account use, I still dont think its fair to hold Revolut at fault for not completing 
further checks before processing the payment. There was a gap of over a week in between 
the scam payments. So it wouldnt have appeared that this higher payment was made as a 
result of immediate pressure  which can be indicative of a scam. It appeared Mr L was 
paying a legitimate merchant who he had used before.
I know the reason paid Mr L this merchant (before moving the funds on) was due to being 
tricked by the scam. But what Im considering here is Revoluts role in this, and what ought 
to have been apparent to it at the time. I dont think the size of the payment looked 
particularly uncharacteristic or concerning. As our investigator pointed out, there were 
several payments for similar or higher amounts in the months leading up to the scam.
I have considered Mr Ls point about what the prior high-value payments were for. But I think 
they still have a bearing on the level of payments Revolut would reasonably see as within 
the expected range for N. Even for the payments to Mr Ls account, those were still going to 
an external payee, and to an account held in a different capacity. And while the 
cryptocurrency merchant wasnt a long-standing payee, it wasnt a new payee either. 
Taking this altogether, I think it would be placing too high a burden to hold Revolut liable for 
the loss. I consider it reasonable, when looking at the payments amongst Ns usual account 
activity, that it didnt consider them significantly unusual or suspicious  and so processed 
them in line with the authorised payment requests it received.
As Ive discussed with Mr L, its also not particularly clear to me that the loss was suffered by 
N directly  who are the eligible complainant here. Rather, based on his initial response (via 
a personal representative), there is a suggestion he was investing personally. In which case, 
it would appear he was using company assets for personal gain, akin to a directors loan  
and so would be expected to repay N. 
Id only consider it fair to award N for losses incurred directly due to any errors by Revolut. 
Whereas if Mr L was investing personally, it is his loss. While N may be out of pocket 
because Mr Ls loss means he cant repay them the money he owes, that is not a direct loss.  
Mr L has since said the payments were business related. Ive not seen enough to satisfy me 
about this change in explanation, nor about how the payments were connected to N. But in 
any event, as Ive not found Revolut at fault, I dont think the case hinges on this point and 
so I dont require further evidence about this to reach a fair outcome. The merchant paid also means a claim through the chargeback scheme wouldn't have 
succeeded. Such claims can only be made against the merchant paid directly. Here, the 
underlying dispute isnt with the merchant paid direct  who loaded the funds to the 
cryptocurrency wallet in line with the requests received, and therefore provided the expected 
service. The loss was only incurred due to the onward transfer from their platform. And so, in 
the circumstances, Revolut couldnt have done more to recover the funds lost.
I do understand the impact this scam has had on Mr L, and why he is looking to recoup the 
loss. Its clear he was tricked by a cruel and sophisticated scam, and Im very sorry to hear 
how difficult that has been. That said, my role here is to assess Revoluts liability. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded any errors by Revolut caused or contributed to the loss incurred. 
And so I dont consider it fair to direct Revolut to reimburse N, or otherwise offer 
compensation for what has happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman