DRN-3487938
The complaint
Ms C has complained about advice she received from Wesleyan Financial Services Limited 
(Wesleyan) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. She 
says that she shouldve been advised to contribute to her employers scheme instead. 
What happened
Ms C met with an adviser from a firm called BMA Services Limited (now the responsibility of 
Wesleyan) in 1993 and received advice to start a FSAVC plan. The available paperwork 
from the time of the sale notes that Ms C was 27 years old, single, working and earning 
£30,000 per year. 
The adviser from BMA was independent, this meant that they could advise on products from 
the whole of the market. The advisers letter that was issued after the meeting set out the 
advice. In summary it said:
The necessary forms had been received so Ms C could cash in her savings plan. 
This would mean the contributions of £70 to the savings plan would finish. 
Ms C had confirmed that she had rejoined her employers occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) with effect from 1 November 1993.  She was making contributions of 
6% of her salary towards the scheme, which was around £75 per month, reducing Ms 
Cs national insurance by around £30 per month. 
Overall, Ms C would make a total saving of £175 per month
Ms C had said that she was willing to invest around £50 per month net towards 
enhancing her retirement benefits. A problem of missing years of service within her 
employers OPS had been exacerbated by her decision to take a personal pension. 
The adviser recommended that Ms C take an FSAVC plan, which should be invested 
in a with profits fund. 
Ms C accepted the advisers recommendation and the FSAVC plan started in late November 
1993. It was set up with a normal retirement age of 60 and with net monthly contributions of 
£50. The payments to the FSAVC continued at the same amount until October 2018. 
In November 2018, Ms C complained to Wesleyan about the advice she had been given. 
Wesleyan upheld the complaint on the basis that it hadnt been able to evidence that Ms C 
had been told about her in-house options. And it thought the correct advice would have been 
for Ms C to have contributed to the in-house scheme. It said that it was passing Ms Cs file to 
its actuaries for a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis. 
In July 2019, Wesleyan wrote out to Ms C again to confirm that the loss assessment had 
been completed. It had determined that she had suffered a loss of £4,199.89, which had 
been reduced to £2,939.32 when adjusted for the tax that Ms C was likely to pay in 
retirement. 
Ms C was unhappy with the offer, so she referred her complaint to our service. In summary 
she said that Wesleyan has stated several factual inaccuracies in the offer letter and there is 
a deliberate attempt to minimise the value of the offer. She said that had she bought added 
years she could have continued with them even when taking the choice exercise in her 
employers OPS. And she said she had stopped paying into the FSAVC in 2018 on the 
advice of a BMA financial advisor, but had she bought added years these would have 
continued. She also said that Wesleyan had deliberately not used the in-house AVC in its 
calculations as this would have resulted in higher financial compensation. Ms C said that the 
in-house AVC is a much closer comparator to the FSAVC. 
One of our investigators reviewed the offer Wesleyan had made. She explained that it wasnt 
her role to check the calculation that had been carried out by Wesleyans actuaries. But 
having checked the data input report, the calculation had been based on the pension review 
methodology and the investigator was satisfied the correct information had been used. So, 
she didnt think Wesleyan needed to do any more than it had already offered. 
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that shed had the offer assessed by an 
independent financial adviser and they had said it was too low. And Ms C maintained that a 
comparison should be made with the in-house AVC (money purchase) as she was paying 
into a FSAVC and she said she would have paid into her employers in-house money 
purchase AVC. 
Our investigator reviewed Ms Cs new comments and sought clarification as to what Ms C 
would have done if shed been suitability advised as she had mentioned both added years 
and the in-house money purchase AVC in her correspondence. Ms C said that its difficult to 
say whether she would have purchased added years or joined the in-house AVC scheme, as 
that offer was never made to her. So she would have asked the financial adviser at the time, 
which scheme was likely to be most beneficial to her and selected the one they 
recommended on providing the highest yield at pension age.
The investigator reviewed the complaint again and based on the paperwork that was 
available, she concluded that Ms C would have most likely joined the in house AVC 
arrangement. She said this because, having reviewed the advisers letter again, it indicated 
Ms C had surrendered her savings Plan, possibly to generate more income. It also showed 
that she was willing to contribute £50 (£66.67 with tax relief) towards her pension at the time. 
Given that she wanted to contribute a specific amount and had surrendered her savings, the 
investigator didnt think Ms C wouldve been prepared to tie herself into an added years 
contract, where a percentage of her salary would be deducted, therefore paying more 
contributions with salary increases. 
Ms C didnt agree. She said the investigator has made several speculative comments, in 
terms of the saving plan being surrendered and the assumption that Ms C would have joined 
the in-house money purchase AVC arrangement. Ms C has said that the FSAVC plan had 
high charges (to cover the salesmans commission and cost of administration) which had 
impacted on the performance and lowered the policy value. In contrast, the AVC options 
available through her employer were free of charge. As her OPS was a final salary scheme, 
Ms C says she could have bought extra years of service to boost her pension. The added 
years arrangement would not have been subject to risky stock market movements, and thus 
would have likely produced much higher pensions than the FSAVC. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the sale of this plan was conducted by an independent financial adviser, they should 
have explicitly compared what the in-house options (both added years and the AVC) and 
what the FSAVC had to offer. Theres no evidence that Wesleyan did this in the case of Ms 
C and so the complaint has been upheld.
 
Its not in dispute that a failing occurred during the advice process. So my decision focuses 
on what I think would most likely have happened, had that failing not occurred.
 
Wesleyan thought that Ms C would have bought added years in her employers OPS. Ms C 
has mentioned both added years and the money purchase AVC in her correspondence. And 
although she has said most recently that she would have chosen added years, she has also 
said that she would have gone with what the adviser recommended as being most 
appropriate for her and what was likely to achieve the highest yield. 
I acknowledge that with hindsight Ms C might have been better off if shed purchased added 
years as investment returns have failed to live up to expectations. But I cant safely say she 
wouldve taken added years in 1993. 
I do acknowledge that Ms C thought that some of the statements made by the investigator 
were speculative. But its not appropriate to look at how the in-house options have performed 
and chose the option that would now place Ms C in a better position. I have to base my 
decision on what I think Ms C would have done in 1993, had she been given suitable advice. 
And where there is only limited evidence from the time of the sale, I need to think about what 
is more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Ms C started her FSAVC when she was 27 when it appears she had only recently re-joined 
her employers OPS. At that time she had a retirement age in the scheme of 60. So it seems 
likely she wouldve needed around eight extra years to achieve the full 40 years service by 
her normal retirement age.
Ms C has said that the cost of administering added years was free of charge. But I think 
what needs to be clarified here is that the cost of purchasing added years was not 
intentionally subsidised by the employer (unlike the main pension scheme). This meant that 
added years were generally seen as expensive. The pension schemes actuaries worked out 
a table of contribution rates which are likely to have involved cautious assumptions about 
future investment returns  so that the employer did not have to bear an excessive share of 
providing the benefits. And the cost of added years wouldve increased with Ms Cs salary. 
I think, on balance, the evidence suggests Ms C may not have been willing to commit to an 
increasing contribution at the time of advice. I say this because the advisers 
recommendation letter addresses the savings that Ms C will be making by implementing the 
changes suggested. These savings were important enough at that time for the adviser to set 
these out in his letter. This suggests to me that making these savings was one of Ms Cs 
objectives at the meeting. And Im conscious that the letter explained that the missing years 
of service had been exacerbated by Ms C having previously taken a personal pension. 
However, rather than using the full saving the adviser had managed to secure for Ms C, she 
only committed to a £50 net per month contribution, despite there being surplus in the 
savings the adviser had made. This suggests to me that Ms C was unwilling to pay more 
than this to her pension arrangement at that time, despite the additional saving she would be 
making by cancelling her savings plan. I think its also important to note that Ms C was single at the time of advice. And part of the 
contribution she would have paid for added years, had she opted to take these, would have 
gone towards providing a spouses pension, which doesnt appear to have been something 
that Ms C would have required at that time. And when viewed in the investment climate of 
1993, a potentially more cost-effective option, albeit involving some minimal risk, was for 
Ms C to contribute towards a scheme which provided a pension for her only.
Ms C has recently said that she would have likely gone with the scheme that would have 
provided her with the highest yield. I can see from the illustration of retirement benefits that 
was issued in 1993, that if Ms C continued to make contributions at the same rate of £50 per 
month until her normal retirement date of 60, she was guaranteed to receive a minimum 
pension of £3,056.69 per annum. However, using the regulators assumed rates of return at 
that time, which were 6% and 12%, Ms C was expected to get a pension of £4,730 (6%) and 
£24,300 (12%) per annum. So even in the middle of these regulatory growth rates, the 
pension could have been several thousand pounds a year even with contributions remaining 
level. This would have compared favourably to what Ms C might get from making increasing 
contributions towards several added years, based on her projected salary at retirement.
So I think, had Ms C been suitably advised, she would have chosen to join the in-house 
money purchase option through her employers OPS. This is because the adviser ought to 
have factored in that the added years option was (reasonably) projected to take more from 
Ms C disposable income than the money purchase AVC, for a comparable level of benefit. 
And given what Ive said above, Im not satisfied that Ms C would have wanted to pay more 
towards her pension. 
As Ive said above, its mainly with hindsight that it can be seen that choosing to purchase 
added years in the 1990s would have resulted in a much better pension now than a money 
purchase scheme. Unfortunately, the hoped for growth rates havent been reached - far 
from it. This is not unique to Ms Cs plan, investments across the board havent performed 
as expected. Across the industry most investment classes have had problems. The 
economic and regulatory situation is very different now from what it was in the 1990 when 
the policy was sold.
I appreciate that had Ms C taken added years, she would not have been impacted by the 
wider investment climate but for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not satisfied that she 
would have opted for added years if shed been suitably advised at the time of the sale. I 
uphold this complaint on the basis that Ms C would have opted to contribute to her 
employers in-house AVC scheme. 
The in-house scheme would likely have had lower charges than the FSAVC. But just 
because Ms C would have paid less in charges, it doesnt necessarily mean that she has 
suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. Wesleyan has raised this issue on other 
cases as it considers its FSAVC funds have performed particularly well. 
The regulators FSAVC review guidance allows a firm to consider if no loss has been 
suffered and one of the instances where it can do so is where the investment performance 
of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC arrangement by more than the 
cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any difference in charges.  So, Im 
directing Wesleyan to carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC. If 
it can demonstrate that the FSAVCs performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more 
than the higher charges Ms C has paid, then it may conclude that she has not suffered a 
loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. However, if a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay 
Ms C the value of the excess charges.  Im aware that, despite several attempts, Wesleyan has been unable to obtain notional 
values from the in-house AVC scheme for other consumers in the same position as Ms C. 
This isnt surprising given that the firm operating the scheme has changed over the years. 
So I have set out below details of the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to run the 
comparison.
Putting things right
As at the date of my final decision, Wesleyan should:
If it wishes to do so, calculate a notional value for the in-house AVC scheme as if it had 
performed in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of 
the investment, and for the other half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. 
I've chosen this benchmark because this would have achieved capital growth with a small 
risk to the capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. The FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a higher return. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Ms C into that position. It does not mean that Ms C 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects 
the sort of return Ms C could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and 
risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If 
the actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need 
not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would 
ordinarily be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking 
this particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Ms C the value of the excess charges as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30%  overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Wesleyan should add 8% simple per year on any loss from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint on the basis that Ms C would have 
joined her employers in-house money purchase AVC if shed been suitably advised. I direct 
Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd to carry out calculations set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman