DRN-3914423
The complaint
Mr U has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to decline 
a claim he made under his NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
Mr U is represented in his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr U by name 
in this decision, even when referring to evidence or arguments put forward by his 
representative.
Mr Us property is suffering from water ingress due to multiple defects with the roof of the 
building. NHBC has declined to cover Mr Us claim under his warranty as it says the main 
cause of the damage to Mr Us property was a lack of maintenance to the roof  and this is 
specifically excluded under the warranty terms.
Mr U says the expert evidence is clear that, regardless of the lack of maintenance, the roof 
requires wholesale replacement due to construction related defects. So, he feels the policy 
should cover his loss.
Our investigator considered Mr Us complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed with NHBCs conclusion that the damage had been caused primarily by the lack of 
maintenance. So, she said NHBC had declined Mr Us claim fairly.
Mr U didnt accept our investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial claim raised with NHBC was brought by the property management company, on 
behalf of multiple residents, because they share a common interest in the roof. But this 
complaint has been brought to our service by Mr U only. So, in assessing the complaint, Ill 
focus only on what Mr U is entitled to under his individual warranty.
What the warranty covers
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for specific major problems with newly built or 
converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The 
policy is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the 
property. The cover provided by the policy is split into several sections. 
Section 3 of the policy is the relevant section in this complaint. This section states that 
NHBC will pay for:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common 
Parts;
It then goes on to list the various specified parts which are covered, which includes roof 
coverings.
Within the policy booklet there is also specific emphasis on the words Damage and 
Defect and individual definitions for each:
Damage
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect
Defect
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employee 
by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways that 
the required performance can be achieved.
What this means is that Mr Us warranty doesnt guarantee that his property will be free from 
defects. Rather, it covers repairing any damage which has been caused by a defect (as 
defined) to one, or more, of the specified parts of the home or common parts. 
So, it is the damage, and not the defect(s), which is specifically covered under section 3 of 
the warranty.
The claim
The fact that there are several, significant construction related defects with the roof, which 
have led to the ingress of water and damage, is not in dispute. Nor is it in dispute that no 
roof inspection schedule was in place, and no routine maintenance works were carried out to 
the roof between construction in 2009 and the claim in 2017.
The dispute here centres on whether NHBC has fairly and reasonably applied the policy 
conditions and exclusions it has relied on to decline Mr Us claim.
NHBC says the dominant cause of the damage is the lack of maintenance and that the 
following policy exclusions apply to Mr Us claim:
f. Deterioration caused by neglect or failure to carry out normal or specific 
maintenance

n. Costs that are attributable to your unreasonable delay in pursuing a claim.Further to this, NHBC has pointed to a general policy condition which states:
2. You must take all reasonable steps to reduce damage to your Home. We will not 
pay for any work or other costs which result from your failure to do this.
Mr U obtained a detailed expert report on the issues with the roof and property in April 2020. 
This report concluded that the wholesale replacement of the roof is needed as a result of the 
defects. Based on this, Mr U asserts that his claim should be covered as the defects are 
clearly the dominant cause of the damage.
Ive carefully considered the evidence available. Having done so, I dont agree with Mr Us 
position. Rather, I think NHBC has declined Mr Us claim fairly, and in line with the policy 
terms. Ill explain why.
Mr Us surveyors report comments on the type of roof at Mr Us property, and how 
frequently a prudent owner/managing agent should conduct maintenance: 
From the information made available by (management company), it appears there is 
not an active Planned Maintenance regime for the building in place. With regards to 
the roof, we have no evidence of any annual or regular inspection of the roof areas 
being undertaken.
In my opinion, for a property of this size, age and use, a prudent Landlord/Managing 
Agent should have a maintenance regime in place for such aspects as regular 
inspections of the roof, regular cleaning of the roof and associated gutters and outlets 
to reduce risk of leaks internally. 
Whilst the BBA certificate refers to an annual inspection, from my perspective I 
would recommend to a prudent Landlord for 6 monthly inspections of a roof of this 
type. This approach allows the general condition of the roof to be checked in 
conjunction with the clearing of rainwater outlets, removal of debris and a general 
roof clean which are important steps to reduce the risk of damage and/or flash 
flooding and leaks to the roof during extreme weather
The above persuades me that no maintenance or inspections were undertaken. Therefore, I 
agree that the general condition relied on by NHBC, taking all reasonable steps to mitigate 
damage, has not been met by Mr U or the management company.
The report also sets out the surveyors opinion on the impact the lack of maintenance likely 
had on the damage to Mr Us flat  which again, is what the warranty covers under section 3:
In my opinion, the extent of defects that have occurred to internal apartment areas 
could have been mitigated to an extent had there been a regular maintenance regime 
in place. In such a scenario, the 6 monthly or annual inspection of the roof would 
have identified these issues at a much earlier stage (potentially around 2011/2012) 
and proactive steps could have been taken to investigate these issues before the 
issues became apparent internally via the moisture ingress (my emphasis). Given that the roof structure is a concrete deck, shows that any leaks through the 
waterproofing membrane would then have to penetrate through the insulation, vapour 
control layer and the dense thickness of the concrete slab itself. Therefore, whilst the 
first leaks were reported in 2012 and then 2013, suggests on the balance of 
probability that the failure of the waterproofing layer in these areas was several 
months before the first report of a leak.
The above suggests that an appropriate maintenance and/or inspection schedule would 
likely have identified the issues with the roof prior to any damage occurring. So, while the 
roof appears to have suffered from defects from when it was first constructed, I think it more 
likely than not, that reasonable steps to mitigate damage, such as a regular schedule of 
maintenance and/or inspections, would have prevented  or at the very least significantly 
mitigated  the damage which is the subject of this claim.
The report further explains the surveyors opinion as to the level of damage caused by the 
lack of maintenance:
In my opinion, the remedial works required involve wholesale replacement of the 
entire waterproofing system inclusive of the insulation due to the incorrect insulation 
boards being installed and the other issues identified in this regard. Had they been 
identified earlier and perhaps around 2010/2011 then, in my opinion, on the balance 
of probabilities, it would still have required wholesale replacement although aspects 
such as the following would not be applicable as these have been (in my 
opinion) a result of the prolonged delay and lack of general annual inspections 
and maintenance (my emphasis):
 
oWater damage to the apartments. 
oInfra-red/thermographic survey of roof slab to understand extent of moisture 
damage to understand extent of concrete testing required.
oConcrete testing due to water damaged roof slab.
In my opinion, on the balance of probabilities, had (management company) 
undertaken the normal maintenance expected as building owner/Managing Agents 
then I feel the repair option required of wholesale recovering would have still been 
necessary (to achieve an equivalent 20 year guarantee), however the disrepair and 
water ingress issues internally would not have occurred to the extent currently 
experienced (my emphasis).
Based on the above, Im persuaded that the dominant cause of the damage was the lack of 
maintenance to the roof. I say this because had this been carried out, the expert evidence 
suggests that the damage would likely not have occurred, as the defects with the roof would 
have become apparent and been able to be remedied much sooner.
The surveyors report also makes clear that damage was evident as early as 2012. But the 
claim wasnt reported to NHBC until 2017. Based on this, I think NHBC is correct to say that 
the exclusions quoted above, for lack of maintenance and late notification of a claim, can be 
fairly applied in this case.
I do accept Mr Us argument that, irrespective of the lack of maintenance or late notification 
of the claim, the roof would always have required replacement. But I dont agree that this 
means NHBC would have been, or ought to be, responsible for covering the cost of this. I say this because there are multiple scenarios where, had the maintenance been carried 
out, this wouldnt be the case. For example, the surveyor suggests its possible the defects 
could have been identified as early as 2010/2011. Had this happened, the builder, rather 
than NHBC would likely have been responsible for remedying the issues as any defects or 
damage which occur within the first two years of the warranty coverage (section 2) are the 
builders responsibility not NHBCs. Or alternatively, had the defects been identified slightly 
later, within years 3 to 10 of cover (section 3), but prior to damage occurring then NHBC may 
not have been required to cover the defective roof. This is because defects, in isolation, 
arent covered under section 3. Rather, as Ive already mentioned, section 3 covers the 
damage which is caused by the defect.
Ultimately, Im persuaded that the lack of maintenance and/or inspections in this case has 
been the primary contributory factor to the damage which has occurred. I accept that its 
impossible to say, for certain, whether an appropriate maintenance schedule would have 
prevented any damage whatsoever. But I think it is clear that it would have significantly 
mitigated the level of damage which has occurred.
 
It could potentially be argued that NHBC might be responsible for covering any damage (as 
defined) which would have occurred up to the point when the issues ought reasonably to 
have been identified and a claim reported  depending on when that might have been 
(section 2 or section 3). But in practice, establishing either of those points at this late stage 
will be impossible. And in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think such a 
direction against NHBC would be fair or reasonable, in any event.
Instead, taking into account the terms and conditions of Mr Us warranty, the length of time 
the roof went without maintenance and the length of time it took from damage occurring to 
the claim being reported, I think it is fair and reasonable for NHBC to decline Mr Us claim, in 
full.
As part of his complaint, Mr U wanted NHBC to cover the cost of the professional support he 
obtained. This was on the basis that he was only required to obtain professional support due 
to NHBCs incorrect decision to decline the claim. NHBC declined this element of the claim 
on the basis that professional costs are excluded, unless they were incurred with specific 
written consent from NHBC. 
The professional costs incurred by Mr U were not authorised in writing by NHBC. And 
regardless of that exclusion, for the reasons Ive explained above, I think NHBCs decision to 
decline the claim was fair. So, it follows that Ill not be making any direction against NHBC in 
respect of either the claim or the professional fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint against 
National House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman