DRN-3883280
The complaint
Mr H has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Mr H invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Mr Hs complaint is that James Hay should not 
have allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2014 Mr H applied for a SIPP with James Hay.  Mr H also bought shares in a company 
which was part of an investment arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  He bought 
100,000 shares at £1 each.  This was funded largely by a limited recourse loan which was 
part of the Scheme and it meant Mr H paid £16,000 of his own money for the shares and the 
balance was funded by the loan.  
  
On the same day that Mr H bought the shares Mr Hs SIPP was opened and a few days later 
Mr H arranged for James Hay to buy all the shares from him using the funds in his SIPP.  
James Hay paid £1 per share meaning £100,000 was paid out of the SIPP to Mr H.
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and Mr H has ended up paying an unauthorised payment surcharge and interest to 
HMRC.
Mr H complained to James Hay.  It did not uphold his complaint.  Mr H then referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint.  He thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  He made several points including:
At the time of the SIPP application Mr H was a financial adviser with a regulated IFA 
firm.  He held a number of controlled functions at that firm.
Mr Hs firm was also listed as the adviser to a number of other consumers who 
invested in the Scheme in SIPPs with James Hay.
Mr H would have had a good understanding of pension legislation and the 
circumstances that would make a payment unauthorised and the tax implications of 
such payments.
Mr H bought shares in the Scheme funded mainly by a limited recourse loan.  He 
then sold those shares to his SIPP shortly after.
Mr H should have been aware the arrangement could be regarded as an 
unauthorised payment out of his pension because:
oThe shares in the Scheme werent worth the subscription price paid as it was 
mainly finance through a limited recourse loan.
oHe sold the shares to his SIPP which released his pension funds  releasing 
more than 25% of his fund without incurring an immediate tax liability.
Mr Hs firm also advised other consumers to invest in the Scheme and Mr H would 
have benefited from that.
Mr H was sufficiently knowledgeable and experienced that he would have invested in 
this way even if James Hay had not accepted his application.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Mr H.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company.  It does not agree with the 
investigator.  It has made several points including:
The Financial Ombudsman Service is, in other cases, saying James Hay failed to 
carry out sufficient checks on the Scheme.  And saying James Hay should 
compensate other consumers.
The investigator has said Mr Hs complaint should not be upheld because of the 
particular circumstances of Mr Hs case but none of those circumstances should 
make a difference.
As far as James Hay was concerned Mr H was just another client.  He was not 
categorised as a professional client, and he should not be judged as one.
If James Hay had carried out adequate due diligence it would not have accepted any 
applications involving the Scheme.  This means James Hay would not have accepted 
Mr Hs application. 
James Hay is a large and reputable SIPP operator.  It held itself out as having carried 
out due diligence on, and as being expert on, the Scheme.  Mr H was entitled to trust 
it.
It is wrong to suggest that Mr H understood that the Scheme involved an 
unauthorised payment.  He would not have invested if he had known that.  His firm 
would not have recommended it to clients if it had known that.
It is also wrong to say Mr H would have gone ahead with the Scheme investment, or 
something similar, if James Hay had refused his application.  He only made the 
investment because James Hay approved the Scheme. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  It said the payment was 
an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr H, because of his professional expertise, will have realised the Scheme was 
unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC. 
 
Mr H will have done a number of things when he was weighing up those risks.  And that will 
have, or should have, included his own (and/or his firms) assessment of the Scheme as a 
whole  not just the share price  set against his professional understanding of pensions and 
investment matters.  I accept that he also took into account the fact that James Hay was 
prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the Scheme (or previous versions of it).  
But does that mean that the risk Mr H knew, or should have known, he was taking should 
fairly and reasonably transfer to James Hay?  In my view it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Hs adviser.  It did not advise him that taking those risks was suitable 
for him. Mr H made that decision for himself.  That was a decision he was qualified and 
experienced to reasonably make for himself, and it is fair and reasonable that he bears the 
consequences of that decision.
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Hs case, even if James Hay did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair 
and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr H.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman