DRN-3130412
The complaint
Mr R complains that the loan he had from Bamboo Limited was unaffordable to him and that 
it was too quick to contact his guarantor.
What happened
Mr R took out a guarantor loan with Bamboo on 30 May 2017. He borrowed £3,500 and was 
scheduled to repay £170.43 per month for 36 months. The loan was settled on 24 November 
2018.
Mr R says that shortly after taking out the loan he lost his job due to an injury. He says he 
asked Bamboo for extra time to make the payments but that it continued to add fees and 
demanded payments from his guarantor. He adds that he was already struggling financially 
at the time of the loan application and had two outstanding short-term loans. Mr R says he 
then took out further short-term loans to make the repayments and fell further into debt as a 
result.
Bamboo says that it reviewed Mr Rs credit report and, although it acknowledged Mr R had 
had previous financial difficulties, it said his report indicated he was managing his finances 
well at the time of the lending. Given Mr R also had the support of a guarantor, Bamboo said 
it considered him creditworthy. It added that it verified Mr Rs declared income and its 
affordability calculation showed a disposable income of over £1,000. Bamboo acknowledged 
that a change of circumstances in June 2018 led to Mr R struggling to make repayments, but 
it said its contact with his guarantor was in line with the guidelines. Nevertheless it said it 
recognised that Mr R struggled with the repayments when he lost his job and offered him 
£500 as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he said that 
Bamboos checks didnt go far enough, he did not find that further checks were likely to have 
shown the lending was unaffordable. Our investigator added that Bamboo was contractually 
allowed to contact Mr Rs guarantor when it did, but he confirmed that Bamboo was still 
willing to offer the £500 goodwill gesture in recognition of the difficulties Mr R faced after he 
lost his job
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that his rent was higher than the £500 hed declared 
and that he was in arrears at the time with both his rent and his council tax. Mr R also said 
that he believed hed been charged for the full term of the loan even though hed settled 
early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice at the 
time of the loan application. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bamboo lent to Mr R. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks in 
the following circumstances:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Rs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see Bamboo asked Mr R about his income and said it 
verified this figure with an external source. It also asked him about his rental costs and 
looked at his credit file to calculate his credit commitments, as well as using third party data 
to estimate his other expenditure. But Im not satisfied Bamboos checks went far enough in 
this case. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 36 months and Bamboo needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Mr Rs credit check showed:
ohe had three defaulted accounts, two of which had been defaulted in the last 
eighteen months and all of which were with debt collection agencies;
ohed taken out another loan two months before his Bamboo loan application;
I havent seen evidence that Bamboo verified either his wages (£1,300) or his other 
income (£800);
Bamboo used a statistical average for Mr Rs living expenses and, whilst I accept it 
may be reasonable to use such an approximation in some cases, I find it is not 
proportionate for this assessment because:
oBamboo calculated that Mr Rs disposable income each month was around 
£1,000 which I dont consider to be consistent with the additional loan hed 
recently taken out, nor the need for a further high cost loan.
oMr R had made very few repayments to his defaulted accounts;
So, I find that Bamboo should have ensured it fully understood Mr Rs financial situation and 
Im not satisfied that the use of statistical data for his expenditure is likely to have been a fair 
representation of Mr Rs circumstances in this case.
I now need to consider whether, based on the information it should have had, Bamboo made 
a fair lending decision.
Ive had a look at Mr Rs bank statements from the time of the loan as a reasonable proxy for 
what Bamboo might have found out had it carried out a proportionate check and looked into 
Mr Rs finances in more depth:
Mr Rs monthly income from his work was roughly in line with what hed declared to 
Bamboo, but I could only see that he was receiving a further £62 of additional income 
from benefits;
There was no obvious figure for rental on Mr Rs bank statements;In addition to the loan that Bamboo knew about, with monthly repayments of £57, 
Mr R was also paying £89 to another loan, £98 to a short-term loan and £28 to a debt 
collection agency;
His other regular expenditure seemed to be around £600, rather than the £457 that 
Bamboo had estimated;
Based on his bank statements Mr R had a monthly disposable income of over £430.
I acknowledge that the statements did not show the £500 for rent that Mr R had declared to 
Bamboo. Mr R has explained that the rent was paid by his wife, using the benefits she 
received, and, in fact, the monthly rental was £875. I have seen the tenancy agreement that 
confirms that to be the case, but as my assessment includes neither the additional benefits, 
nor the rental expenditure, this does not affect the affordability calculation.
So I cant conclude the Bamboo loan was unaffordable to Mr R, nor that Bamboos lending 
decision was unfair.
Ive also considered whether Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. I 
acknowledge Mr R says he considers Bamboo contacted his guarantor too quickly after he 
missed payments, but Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so within the terms of the loan.
Finally, I acknowledge that Mr R says he was charged interest for the whole term of the loan 
despite it being settled early. I can confirm to Mr R he received an early settlement rebate of 
£687.80.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, Im satisfied Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision, and that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. Bamboo 
has confirmed that its offer of the £500 goodwill gesture still stands, and Mr R can contact 
Bamboo directly about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman