DRN-3439423
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B are unhappy that Vitality Health Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B and Ms B went on holiday to a country Ill refer to as T. They were due 
to return on 9 March 2020 but, in late February 2020, decided to extend their trip and return 
to the UK in April 2020. 
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and on the 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. A few days later they issued further 
guidance to travellers in T and on 23 March 2020 advised that all UK citizens abroad should 
return to the UK.
In short, Mr B and Ms B say they got stuck in T until July 2020. They made a claim on their 
travel insurance for the cost of changing their flights (to return in April), accommodation and 
car hire. Vitality declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover available under the 
policy and Mr B and Ms B could have returned to the UK at an earlier date. Mr B and Ms B 
complained to Vitality, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr B 
and Ms B complained to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
there was cover under the policy for trip extensions due to a pandemic. And she noted that 
the decision to change the original flight was their choice. She also didnt think that Mr B and 
Ms B had let Vitality know that theyd exceeded the trip limit of 120 days. 
Mr B and Ms B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary 
they said they didnt know that the return flight wasnt cancelled until 21 March 2020 and 
they made all efforts to find an alternative flight. They also said they werent at fault as they 
contacted Vitality. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr B and Ms B incurred additional costs when they changed their planned return 
date to the UK. They did that because they decided to stay in T longer. Incurring 
increased costs because of a choice to stay abroad for longer than originally planned 
isnt covered by the policy terms and conditions. Thats standard industry practice as 
travel insurance is designed to cover unexpected costs from unforeseen events. An 
increase in the cost of a flight because of a change in dates doesnt fall under the 
policy terms and conditions. 
I think it was reasonable for Vitality to decline Mr B and Ms Bs claim for 
accommodation costs and car hire costs in the circumstances of this case. The policy 
terms and conditions dont cover enforced stay abroad, which is what happened 
here. There is no cover because they didnt cancel or cut short their holiday. The 
policy does cover enforced stay if the policyholder receives medical advice to stay 
beyond their scheduled return date. But that doesnt apply to the circumstances of Mr 
B and Ms Bs claim.
There is no cover for delayed departure because this section of cover only applies in 
limited circumstances, for example when a flight is delayed due to strike, industrial 
action, bad weather or mechanical breakdown. Thats not what happened to Mr B 
and Ms B  their departure was delayed due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
There is no cover under the missed departure section of cover either. It covers 
additional transport costs to enable Mr B and Ms B to reach their international 
departure point or destination following failure of public transport or a vehicle 
breaking down on the way to the departure point or destination. Mr B and Ms B didnt 
incur additional travel costs to return home, except for the costs they incurred when 
they changed their original flight home. Ive already explained why those costs arent 
covered. And, in any event, Mr B and Ms B didnt miss their flight because of a failure 
of public transport or a vehicle breaking down. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B and Ms B say that they were trying to contact Vitality 
during the time that they were abroad, but they didnt receive a response. But, even if 
I agreed they werent able to contact Vitality, based on what Mr B and Ms B have 
said about the availability of flights its unlikely that theyd have been able to do 
anything differently. And, even if I accepted they were making attempts to get home, 
there is no cover under the policy for enforced stays abroad in these circumstances. 
So, based on the evidence thats available, I still think its fair for Vitality to decline the 
claim. 
Ive thought about Mr B and Ms Bs comments that, when they extended their trip so 
that they could return in April 2020, they were still within the 120 day trip limit set out 
in the policy. They didnt return until July 2020, which is outside the limit. But, even if I 
accepted Mr B and Ms Bs arguments in relation to the trip limit it doesnt change my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. Thats because, as Ive already 
explained, there is still no cover under the policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman