The complaint
Mr W says the loan he took with Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma 
(Satsuma), isnt enforceable as he wasnt able to access the two-way signed credit 
agreement via the email link sent by Satsuma. He also complains that the early settlement 
quote was too high.        
What happened
Mr W applied for a loan with Satsuma online in July 2019. The amount applied for was £600 
and was to be repaid over six months at a cost each month of £189.60. The total amount 
payable would be £1,137.60. The loan was agreed on 18 July 2019.
On 9 August 2019 Mr W asked for an early settlement quote and was told total the amount 
payable would be £798.78. The total amount outstanding at the time was £1,137.60 so the 
figure quoted included a rebate on the interest of £338.82. Mr W has settled this but isnt 
happy with the amount. 
Mr W has also said that once he applied for the loan online, and the loan agreed, Satsuma 
should have sent him a copy of the agreement including the terms and conditions that was 
signed by the business. I understand Satsuma did this via a link contained within an email, 
but Mr W has said he wasnt able to open the link. As a result, Mr W says the loan 
agreement is unenforceable. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted that Mr W may have been 
frustrated by not being able to access the signed copy of the agreement but noted  Mr W 
hadnt contacted Satsuma about this until over three weeks after it was sent to him. This was 
the same day Mr W asked for an early repayment quote. 
And she also confirmed that the agreement copy seen and signed by Mr W during the 
application process included all of the interest charges, which were front loaded, and that 
Satsuma had calculated the early settlement figure correctly. 
Mr W remained dissatisfied but the additional points he made in his response to the 
adjudicators assessment didnt cause her to change her opinion. So as the complaint 
remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
DRN-1880675I think it's important to recognise that in a relationship between a consumer and a financial 
business, errors or dissatisfaction can and do arise. And when that happens, we would 
expect a business to treat the customer fairly and resolve the complaint in a timely manner.
Ive reviewed the file and can see that Mr W has been frustrated with his experience with 
Satsuma. But I think Satsuma has treated him fairly and I note that in response to his 
complaint it apologised for any trouble and upset Mr W was caused. 
Ill now address Mr Ws specific complaint points and explain how Ive reached the 
conclusion that I have. 
Mr W applied for his loan online and the application was sent electronically to Satsuma for its 
agreement and signature. The credit agreement is in place once Satsuma has signed the 
agreement. This was then returned to Mr W via an email link, but Mr W wasnt able to open 
the link and as a result he says the loan is unenforceable as he was legally obliged to have a 
copy of the two-way signed agreement. 
I should make clear this service is an alternative to the courts. While we take the law into 
consideration, we also take a fair and reasonable approach to complaint resolution and this 
what Ive done in this case.
When Mr W applied for the loan, he had to confirm that he agreed to the terms and 
conditions that were within the credit agreement. So, Im satisfied that Mr W was aware of 
those terms and conditions at the point of application and agreed to them. And I also note 
that when Mr W couldnt open the agreement that was signed and returned to him by 
Satsuma, he didnt contact the business until three weeks later about this. If not having a 
copy of the signed agreement had caused Mr W such a concern, I would have expected him 
to have contacted Satsuma immediately. And Satsuma did provide a further copy of the 
agreement to Mr W after he made contact. 
So, while I accept Mr W may have been inconvenienced at not being able to open the link, 
Im satisfied this wasnt intentional and Satsuma acted in good faith. And until Mr W made 
contact with Satsuma on 9 August 2019 it wasnt aware this was a problem for him. But it put 
the matter right. And as Ive said above, Mr W had signed his agreement to the terms, so Im 
satisfied he was aware of and understood those terms. So, I dont think by not receiving a 
useable link would have caused Mr W to have acted any differently.
I appreciate Mr W has said he would have cancelled the agreement within the 14-day 
cooling off period if hed been aware of the early repayment terms. But these were all made 
clear at the outset. Mr W was aware the loan had been given so if he had wanted to cancel 
within the 14-day period, I would have expected him to have made earlier contact with 
Satsuma. 
Satsuma confirmed its early repayment calculations were made in line with the regulations. 
And the loan agreement showed all of the front-loaded interest charges. It is those interest 
charges that are recalculated for early repayment. The principal amount borrowed remains 
the same. Mr W had had use of the money so was still obliged to repay that amount, which i 
understand he did.  
Mr W says he made contact with the business prior to 9 August 2019 but Satsumas contact 
records dont show this happened. Mr W hasnt provided any evidence to show he made an 
earlier phone call, but I do accept that this may be an error in either partys records. But as I 
dont have any evidence to consider, I cant make any finding on this other than I do accept 
Mr W may have called at an earlier point than recorded by Satsuma. Overall, while I accept it wasnt ideal for Mr W to have not been able to open the email link 
with the signed agreement, I dont agree this makes the loan unenforceable. Satsuma has 
apologised for this. And for the second part of Mr Ws complaint, Im satisfied the early 
repayment quote was calculated in line with the agreed terms and conditions, and 
regulations in place.  
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint. But I hope I have 
been able to explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman