DRN-3589119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited unfairly turned down 
their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in April 2008. The total cost of 
membership was £5,700, which was paid for by way of a loan from GE Money. Evidence 
from GE Money suggests the loan was repaid in March 2010.
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs C made a claim against GE Money for problems they said they 
had with the timeshare. Mr and Mrs C are represented but for ease I will generally refer to 
Mr and Mrs C in this decision. In summary, Mr and Mrs C said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and they had been 
pressured into buying it.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU Directive.
The associated loan from GE Money was also null and void due to breaches of 
the CCA and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
GE Money didnt ask for any information about income or expenditure before 
granting the loan.
GE Money responded to the claim. It said, in summary, that:
In respect of a number of the concerns raised to do with what Mr and Mrs C say 
they were told at the point of sale, they would need to contact the timeshare 
supplier directly.
It didnt need to consider the other points raised, mainly because the claims had 
been brought too late.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and referred their concerns to this Service. In terms of the 
timescales for making a claim, they said that although the finance had ended more than six 
years before the claim was made, the relationship hadnt ended then as theyd paid 
membership fees to the timeshare supplier in 2016. They said that, as such, the claim had 
been made in time.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and reached a view. He thought that GE 
Money had acted fairly in turning down the claim. He thought that there were two potential 
claims Mr and Mrs C could have made under s.75 and s.140A CCA, but both claims had 
been brought too late under the provisions in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). Mr and Mrs C
disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022. In it, I said:
GE Money has said that Mr and Mrs C would need to approach the timeshare supplier 
about the allegations to do with information provided by it at the point of sale. However, I 
disagree. Under s.75 CCA, GE Money is required to consider claims for misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with 
information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
However, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I dont think this ultimately makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Having considered everything, I think there are 
several claims that Mr and Mrs C are making to GE Money. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs C say that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr and Mrs C had to make 
that claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  
which was in April 2008  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs C first made a claim to GE Money in March 2021, that fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under
s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs C had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended - 
which was in March 2010. But it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mr and Mrs C argue that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued 
beyond March 2010. They said that for the purposes of the LA, time did not start to run until
Mr and Mrs C stopped paying maintenance fees in 2016.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once
Mr and Mrs C repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and GE Money ended. 
As it was only the relationship between Mr and Mrs C and GE Money that could be found 
unfair, limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Mr and Mrs C say that limitation could be extended by s.14A LA as GE Money had a duty 
to undertake due diligence to make sure that the timeshare complied with EU Directives. 
For s.14A LA to apply, Mr and Mrs C would need to have a cause of action against GE 
Money in negligence. That means GE Money would need to owe a duty of care to give 
rise to such a claim. 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments, I dont think GE Money had a duty 
to protect its customers from buying timeshare products, with credit, that didnt comply 
with EU Directives. It follows, I dont think there is a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that they brought their claim within three years of when they 
realised they could, which was within the 3 years date of knowledge rule. I havent been told which rule it is they say applies and I dont think there is anything within the LA that 
works in this way for Mr and Mrs Cs claims.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
Mr and Mrs C argue that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which means the 
related GE Money loan was voidable and Mr and Mrs C now wish to exercise their right to 
rescind it.
If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also 
voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that 
could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already 
explained, I think that claim was brought too late. However, it could also be a freestanding 
claim in its own right, so Ive considered it separately.
Mr and Mrs C have asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation 
and a Spanish court judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, 
a timeshare that provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book 
holidays with a provider, is a voidable agreement. Ive considered this argument. But 
I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare agreement is voidable.
First, the timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, 
so I dont think the Spanish judgment (which in any event relates to a different timeshare 
product to Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare) can be applied directly to the question as to whether 
the contract is voidable under English law.
Secondly, the EU Directive Ive been asked to consider was the 1994 Directive 94/47/EC. 
That was enacted into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, which amended 
the Timeshare Act 1992. None of those provisions prohibited the sale of timeshares like 
the one Mr and Mrs C bought.
In the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common
problems faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based 
timeshare were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in 
and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I am satisfied that these types of timeshares have 
never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Mr and Mrs Cs 
sale or after. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the timeshare 
agreement or the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
GE Moneys decision to lend
Mr and Mrs C say they were not asked for any information about their income and 
expenditure before GE Money made its decision to lend to them.
I am able to consider a complaint about GE Moneys decision to lend to Mr and Mrs C in 
April 2008. But in any complaint about lending there are a number of things to consider. 
First, a lender had to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure a 
prospective borrower was able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Second, if, as Mr 
and Mrs C say happened, such checks were not carried out, it is necessary to determine 
what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the checks showed that the 
repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, did the borrowers lose out?
Mr and Mrs C say that the right sort of checks did not take place and they may be right 
about that. But theyve not provided anything to show that the lending wasnt affordable for them. Ive seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan. Further, it looks like the loan 
was paid back in full, well within the original intended term. Taking all of this into account,
Im not currently persuaded that the complaint should be upheld on this basis.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think GE Money acted fairly in turning down 
Mr and Mrs Cs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I dont
think the loan agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is evidence to suggest the
lending was irresponsible or unaffordable.
I asked for any further comments and evidence to be provided by 15 July 2022. GE Money 
had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs Cs representative provided a lengthy response, 
arguing why Mr and Mrs Cs claim isnt time barred. I take the crux of their argument to be as 
follows:
- The Timeshare Act 1992 applies to this sale. Under this Act, the Timeshare supplier 
needed to provide Mr and Mrs C with specific information at the time of sale. 
- Not all of this information was provided to Mr and Mrs C, meaning that the 
withdrawal/cancellation period was three months and ten days. Under the same 
legislation, the Timeshare supplier couldnt accept or request any advance payment 
before the end of that period. 
- GE Money paid the Timeshare supplier before the end of that period. This means 
that both GE Money and the Timeshare supplier breached the act and there is a 
breach of contract in relation to both the Timeshare agreement and the loan 
agreement. 
- GE Money owed a duty of care to Mr and Mrs C to ensure that both it and the 
Timeshare supplier didnt breach the 1992 Act. However, due to the timing of the 
advanced payment, GE Money breached its duty of care to Mr and Mrs C. This 
constitutes negligence.
- Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have known about this negligence until they approached their 
representative. S14A LA permits a claim in negligence to be brought either within six 
year from the accrual of the cause of action or, if later, three years from the earliest 
date that the claimants had the knowledge required to bring the claim. Given this, 
under S14A, the time limitation period for Mr and Mrs C began in January 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done so, I still dont uphold this complaint. This is because I still find that 
Mr and Mrs Cs claims under CCA have been brought too late. Ill explain why. 
However, before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an 
ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that 
reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my 
conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from 
both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar 
as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
I set out in my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) why I thought 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim under s.75 CCA for misrepresentation had been brought too late. 
Briefly, under s.2 LA, Mr and Mrs C had to make their claim within six years from when the 
cause of action accrued - which was in April 2008  because that is when they say they lost 
out having relied on false statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs C first made a claim to GE Money in March 2021, that fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr and Mrs C and 
GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to 
consider it.
As set out in my provisional findings, as with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period 
for s.140A is also six years. This is because the claim Mr and Mrs C wish to make is for 
repayment of sums they have paid to the loan, which is an action for sums recoverable 
under statute to which s.9 LA applies. That means Mr and Mrs C would have to bring an 
action within six years of when the loan ended, at the latest. As they did not do that, I still 
think they brought their claim too late.
Could limitation be extended?
The thrust of Mr and Mrs Cs argument is that GE Moneys actions in providing the loan 
when it did, amounts to a breach of the duty of care it owed to Mr and Mrs C. And that this 
amounts to negligence, which extends the limitation period under s.14A LA. 
Mr and Mrs C have pointed to two specific pieces of information contained within Schedule 1 
of the 1992 Act that they say the Timeshare supplier didnt supply at the time of sale, which 
leads they say to negligence on the part of GE Money. 
These are:
1. An accurate description of that accommodation and its location; and
2. The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement may be 
exercised
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about this, but Im not convinced there was 
a breach of those requirements in this case. However, I dont need to make a finding on this, 
because as set out in my provisional findings, for s.14A LA to apply, a claimant must have a 
cause in negligence against the alleged defendant, which means GE Money would have to 
owe a duty of care to Mr and Mrs C to give rise to such a claim. 
I have thought again about whether GE Money had such a duty to protect its customers from 
purchasing timeshare products that may have been non-compliant with the 1992 Act with 
credit, by undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sale process. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative hasnt provided any compelling reasons why such a duty of 
case would exist. And Im not persuaded that such a duty can be established. The agreement being voidable
Neither party has provided any further comment or evidence on this, so I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings, set out earlier in this decision. 
GE Moneys decision to lend
Neither party has provided any further information in relation to this, so I see no reason to 
deviate from my provisional findings. I still havent seen anything to suggest there were any 
affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial difficulties at the time of 
the loan. Im therefore not persuaded that the complaint should be upheld on this basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman