DRN-2217679
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) for its increases to his landlords 
insurance premiums during the period while his claim was being dealt with. He thinks that 
these increases were unfair, and he wants the difference between his later premiums and 
his pre-claim premiums to be refunded. 
What happened
Mr M owns a property which he lets out. This property was insured, via a broker, with Allianz. 
In December 2017, Mr M renewed his policy, at a premium of around £607. 
In mid-2018, an escape of water occurred at Mr Ms property, causing extensive damage. 
Mr M submitted a claim for repair works, and for loss of rent.
Allianz accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to oversee the repairs. Allianz 
estimated the cost of the claim to be around £65,000.
In December 2018, Allianz sent Mr M his renewal quote, which increased his premium to 
around £913. Mr M renewed his policy. 
A certificate of practical completion of the works was issued in August 2019, but there 
remained a number of snagging issues. 
Delays occurred on the rectification of these issues, partly due to the loss adjuster being 
absent with ill health. The estimated cost of the claim increased, to around £130,000, by 
December 2019.  
In December 2019, Allianz sent Mr M his renewal information. His premium had increased to 
around £1800. 
Mr M attempted to find cover elsewhere, but was advised that other insurers would not offer 
him cover while his claim for the earlier escape of water was still being dealt with. He says 
that this was because other insurers thought that he may be able to claim against the new 
policy for events which were the responsibility of Allianz.
Unable to obtain alternative cover, Mr M renewed with Allianz. He made a complaint to 
Allianz about the delays that had taken place, and about the increase in his premium. 
Allianz accepted that delays had occurred and gave Mr M £250 compensation to reflect 
these. Allianz then expedited the remaining parts of his claim and the claim was finally 
settled and closed around March 2020. 
Mr M asked Allianz to refund the difference in his premiums as he considered that he had 
been unable to leave Allianz while the claim was ongoing, and so he felt it unfair to increase 
his premiums so substantially. 
Allianz sent Mr M its final response in early 2020 declining this complaint. It explained that 
Mr M was under no obligation to stay with Allianz, and that as the cost of the claim 
increased, Allianz considered that it was appropriate to load the premium. 
Mr M was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that Allianz has not acted unreasonably and he did not recommend the complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made clear that he understands that he was technically able to leave Allianz, but 
that he was unable to secure cover elsewhere while the claim was ongoing. He therefore 
thinks that, practically, he was trapped with Allianz and that Allianz exploited him by charging 
a higher premium. 
I understand Mr Ms dismay at the increase in his premiums, but I agree with the 
investigators view that Allianz has not acted unreasonably. 
Insurers are entitled to assess risk, change in risk, and the insurers appetite for a particular 
risk, as it sees fit, and to factor this into a renewal price. Allianz has explained that, as the 
cost of the claim increased, its assessment of the price of cover going forward changed and 
it considered the increase appropriate. The increase was applied at renewal and consumers 
are free to accept or reject their renewal.
I do not think that its actions here were unfair, and so I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I understand that Mr M did not find alternative cover, but he was not prevented from doing so 
by Allianz. I understand his view that the delay in resolving the claim made it more difficult 
for him to obtain insurance, but the delay has been considered elsewhere and compensation 
paid for this. 
I understand that Mr M will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope it clearly explains 
why I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Allianz 
Insurance Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman