DRN-4365106
The complaint
Mr D complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) incorrectly
sold his outstanding loan balances and by doing so this led a third party to record a County
Court Judgement (CCJ) against him.
In order to put things right Mr D would like a refund of the funds he paid to the third-party
debt collector, the removal of the CCJ from his credit file and a payment of compensation.
What happened
The complaint stems from 23 instalment loans granted to Mr D between November 2010 and
July 2016 and he borrowed between £50 and £450 each time.
In 2016, Mr D raised a complaint with Lending Stream about these loans and
Lending Stream provided an answer on 18 August 2016. At the time it explained Mr D had
taken 23 loans and five loans remained outstanding. However, in order to resolve the
complaint, Lending Stream offered a payment of £472.01. It isnt clear whether this was offer
was accepted by Mr D.
Lending Stream later explained to the Financial Ombudsman that the offer related to loan
one and then loans 16  23  although it does seem that Lending Stream didnt explain this
to Mr D in 2016.
After the outstanding loans werent repaid by Mr D, the outstanding balance was sold to a 
third party who then sought and was granted a CCJ against Mr D for £1,053.51 in 
November 2018.
Lending Stream then contacted Mr D on 11 March 2022 for further information because it 
had carried out a retrospective business review of the complaint and it needed information 
from Mr D to enable it to determine whether, based on the information it had collected at the 
time, the loans were affordable for him.
Following this request for information a final response letter (FRL) was issue by
Lending Stream in April 2022. In this FRL Lending Stream explained why it wasnt going to
uphold Mr Ds complaint about loans 1  5. However, it did accept that loans 6  23 shouldnt
have been granted. To put things right it made the following offer:
refund the interest that Mr D paid towards these loans,
pay 8% simple interest on the above refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement (and deducting the correct rate of tax),
use this refund to offset against any outstanding balance Mr D may have and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file about these loans.
Lending Stream calculated that Mr D was owed a total refund of £2,031.30. Mr D accepted 
this offer and it seems the refund has been paid because a tax interest certificate has been 
issued to him.
In addition although not outlined in the FLR, Mr D also says that Lending Stream then 
agreed to arrange with the third party to have the CCJ set aside.
After Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, he sent a copy of a letter he
had received from the third party in October 2022, in which it confirmed:
With regards to a refund of the money paid towards the County Court Judgement,
we would like to inform you that all repayments towards the account were sent to the
Lending Stream at the time the account was recalled. We shall contact Lending
Stream on your behalf to request that they contact you directly with regards to any
refund you may be owed.
In December 2022, Mr D let us know that the third party was in the process of having the
CCJ set aside. Later on, in the same month, Mr D confirmed the CCJ had been successfully 
set aside, and the funds he had paid the third party had now been returned to Lending 
Stream.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She explained, that
she didnt think Lending Stream was wrong to have passed the outstanding loans to a third
party. She also wasnt able to comment on the CCJ because the third party had instigated
this and the CCJ was then granted by the Court.
The adjudicator also said that as part of the recall of the debt any payments which were
made to the third party were returned to Lending Stream and the adjudicator concluded this
formed part of the refund paid to Mr D.
Mr D disagreed with the assessment, and Ive read all his emails, but in summary he has
said:
The loans shouldnt have been granted in the first place.
The payments stopped because Mr D couldnt afford to make them.
Mr D says Lending Stream instructed the third party to obtain the CCJ.
The third party had problems having the CCJ set aside.
Mr D says companies like Lending Stream caused him lasting personal damage and 
he provided details of this but to protect his privacy I will provide no further details 
here.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I then made a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also not intending to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint, but I provided further details as to why. 
Both parties were asked to respond to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but in 
any event, no later than 21 September 2023. 
Lending Stream didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr D responded with additional comments as well as provided additional documents for my 
consideration. In summary he said: 
The original unaffordable lending complaint wasnt upheld, instead Mr D says it made 
an offer of £400 as a gesture of goodwill. There was no uphold until 2022, when it 
contacted him. 
Mr D says Lending Stream is hiding something because he says it was only after he 
told them about him nearly losing his home that it accepted something went wrong and a copy of an email from Lending Stream sent to Mr D was provided dated 
12 March 2022 which does show that it considered a complaint and thought, based 
on the screen shot that it was reasonable for at least eight loans to have been 
approved. 
 
A copy of my provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicator Mr D outlined some of the personal impact this whole issue
has had on his personal life, and I am sorry to read about these. Im also sorry to hear about
the problems Mr D has had with a payday lender that is no longer trading and a credit card
company. But this decision can only focus on the actions of Lending Stream.
The crux of this complaint is what happened when Lending Stream passed the debt to the
third party and secondly, what happened after Lending Stream made its offer in April 2022.
What I will not be doing in this complaint is considering whether Lending Stream did all it
ought to have done before it granted the loans. And I say this for two reasons.
Firstly, that wasnt the complaint that Mr D referred to the Financial Ombudsman and
secondly, as far as I can see that complaint has been resolved. Lending Stream accepted
something went wrong and it made an offer of compensation in 2022 which Mr D has
accepted. And so as far as I can see that dispute has been resolved.
After Lending Streams 2016 investigation into what happened it made an offer of around £420,
despite us asking Lending Stream for confirmation whether this offer was actually applied to
the outstanding balance, it hasnt been forthcoming with the information.
However, having looked at the statement of accounts for each of the loans subject to the
offer, it doesnt show any credits at the time. In response to the provisional decision, I would
be grateful if Lending Stream could confirm whether the 2016 offer of a refund was applied
at the time, and how that may (or may not) have impacted the redress it paid in 2022.
Mr D has said that the refund he has been paid by Lending Stream doesnt take account of
payments made to the third party for the CCJ. However, Mr D hasnt said how much or when
he has paid the third party, so I dont know exactly how much he may have paid. In response
to this provisional decision Mr D may wish to provide this further information.
In any event, Lending Stream has been consistent throughout that the refund it has paid
Mr D does include the payments he made to the third party. And Lending Stream has
provided a copy of an email that it received from the third party in April 2022 where the third
party said The payment history is taken directly from Mt (sic) D [full name removed] from
account
This was a response Lending Stream received after contact had been made to find out
whether there were for example any missing payments due to Mr D presumably querying the
refund he had received. As far as I can see, based on the information I currently have
available, it appears the refund Lending Stream has paid is correct.
Lending Stream has shown that the final five loans (loans 19  23) were sold to the third
party in February 2018, so anything that occurred after that date in terms of collections or
contact isnt the responsibility of Lending Stream because it was no longer the legal owner of
the debt.
I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that the outstanding balance was sold to a third party andthat third party took steps to apply for a CCJ. But I wouldnt be able to make a finding that
Lending Stream was wrong to sell the balance, because in 2016 it provided an answer to an
unaffordable lending complaint and payments dont appear to have been made to
Lending Stream after that date. The loan accounts wouldve been sufficiently in arrears and
a lender can if they wish it could assign their rights and responsibilities to a third party and
this echoed in the terms and condition (3.8) of the credit agreements.
I also wont be able to recommend that Lending Stream makes an award for compensation
purely because of the CCJ for two reasons. Firstly, it wasnt Lending Stream who sought and
was granted the CCJ. At the time this happened, Lending Stream wasnt the legal owner of
the outstanding balances and so I cant hold it responsible for it obtaining the CCJ. And
secondly, in November 2018, a judge decided that a CCJ was an appropriate course of
action. As this is the case, I cant ask Lending Stream to pay any award to Mr D solely
because a CCJ was granted.
I do accept that Mr D may well think that because Lending Stream has now said that most of
his loans ought to not have been approved, and had it taken that stance in 2016 then the
CCJ may well not have been granted. But from the limited information provided, Mr D made
a complaint about the loans and was given an answer  so at the time Mr D knew there may
be an issue. And the answer he received at the time explained what action Lending Stream
would take. I accept it has now taken a different approach to some further loans but at the
time, if Mr D was unhappy with what Lending Stream had said he couldve pursued this
further.
Although the CCJ has now been set aside by the third party, it is clear from the emails that
Mr D has provided that there were some difficulties in getting it set aside, and it took a
number of attempts. However, there is nothing to suggest that Lending Stream caused these
difficulties. And therefore, it isnt appropriate for me to make a finding because the third party
isnt subject to or bound by this complaint. So, I say no more about it.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about the comments that Mr D provided I am still minded to not uphold the 
complaint and Ive explained why below. 
Ive considered the previous emails Mr D had provided  about the 2016 decision made by 
Lending Stream about the complaint it is clear from that that the offer to refund the interest 
and charges paid towards the loan accounts amounting £472.01. This isnt particularly clear 
as it doesnt for example give the loan numbers that relates to. 
It was only after further questions were asked of Lending Stream that it provided us a 
breakdown of what loans that offer related to  but I accept at the time Mr D may not have 
known that. I only mentioned the 2016 letter and offer for context as to what had happened 
with the complaint and the loans. 
But whether or not the 2016 offer was made as a gesture of goodwill or not doesnt in this 
case affect the outcome that Ive reached. And I say this for much the same reasons as I 
gave in the provisional decision. Mr D was aware that there was a potential issue with the 
loan because he complained about it. And then after the 2016 investigation, Mr D wasnt 
able to successful repay the outstanding loan balances which resulted in Lending Stream 
passing selling the outstanding balance onto to a third party. I can see from the email Mr D provided in response to the provisional decision that initially in 
March 2022 Lending Stream didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D says that Lending Stream 
only changed its mind after he emailed it about his housing situation. I dont have a copy of 
the email that Mr D says he sent back in response. But what is clear, is by 4 April 2022 when 
the final response letter was issued, Lending Streams view of the complaint had changed. 
And it therefore made the offer to settle the complaint about loans 6  23. Which was then 
accepted. 
So, for the reasons given in the provisional decision  which should be read in conjunction 
with this decision, I still dont think its appropriate and / or a need to consider whether 
Lending Stream was right or wrong to have approved some or all of the loans, and I say this 
because in Mr Ds complaint form and therefore the crux of this complaint. Is that he was 
happy with the outcome that was eventually reached as well as the interest refund, but he 
was more concerned about the fact the loans were sold and a CCJ was granted. And that is 
what the provisional decision focused on. 
Both Lending Stream and the third party who sought the CCJ have been consistent that the 
refund paid to Mr D included any payments that were made towards the CCJ, and in the 
absence of any other information showing that wasnt the case, I cant ask Lending Stream 
to pay any more than it has already done.  
I acknowledge the CCJ took longer than Mr D may have expected to be set aside, it was  
based on what weve been told eventually removed. I also, for the reasons given in the 
provisional decision cant ask Lending Stream to pay compensation for that when it wasnt 
the one that applied for the CCJ. 
Finally, Ive not been provided any further evidence to make me depart form the findings that 
I reached in the provisional decision about making an award for compensation because a 
CCJ was sought and granted to a third party who is separate entity and who this decision 
isnt against.  
So, having reconsidered everything including the additional points raised Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached before, and that is Lending Stream doesnt have to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ds complaint and Gain Credit LLC doesnt have to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman