DRN-1866940
The complaint
This is a complaint that West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. These 
both started in 1991. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
Mr and Mrs H said they believe the adjudicator didnt consider all the relevant information 
and they also raised new arguments in support of their complaint. So I wanted to make clear 
what my view of the complaint was on the information received, and why Id reached that 
view. This would then give Mr and Mrs H (and the building society) the opportunity to send 
any final comments and evidence.  I wrote a provisional decision, saying the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. This is because I dont have 
strong enough evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 29 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the 
key documents from the time are now available  only basic records exist of some 
dates and amounts paid. Also I couldnt be sure how much detail someone would 
accurately recall about everything that happened so many years ago when the PPI 
started.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence. And Ive had to consider what level 
of evidence its fair to expect from the different parties. 
In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mr and Mrs H have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. They do 
remember having to buy a special insurance because there was doubt about the 
status of the freehold. But they say they had no need for PPI and wouldnt have 
wanted to spend so much money on an insurance like PPI. They had entitlement to 
sick pay from their employer and also substantial savings. They are sure they didnt 
agree to PPI, and only found out recently when they made an enquiry to West 
Bromwich. They say West Bromwich is only making assumptions about how the PPI 
started and hasnt presented evidence. 
First, I must say I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs H have presented an honest account 
of what they remember. But, as this was so long ago, I cant be sure if theyve simply forgotten that they were persuaded that PPI was a good idea at the time, but have 
now forgotten that.
And, where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require 
someone to prove they didnt do something wrong. I realise this causes Mr and Mrs H 
a real difficulty so many years later. 
West Bromwich has said its processes at the time would have meant it would have 
needed Mr and Mrs H to confirm on a form that they wanted PPI. West Bromwich 
hasnt provided me with an example of this form. But I do think its likely that some 
type of documentation was involved: otherwise the insurer, which would have been a 
separate organisation, wouldnt have been able to start the insurance. However, I 
have no information about how obvious the form made it that Mr and Mrs H were 
agreeing to PPI. 
However, overall, I dont have good supporting evidence to fairly say West Bromwich 
added the PPI to the account without Mr and Mrs Hs informed consent. 
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain why.
West Bromwich has worked on the assumption that it recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. I think this is a fair approach, as it means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Hs particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. PPI for some types of 
borrowing was often of doubtful value; but being unable to pay a mortgage on your 
home can lead to significant difficulties, and PPI was often a good idea for mortgages. 
West Bromwichs PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr H (who it 
seems was the only person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially 
for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any 
savings. This all would have put Mr and Mrs H in a more secure position, if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment.
Mr and Mrs H have said they had substantial savings which they could have relied on. 
Not surprisingly theyre not able to give proof of how much that was  and I also dont 
know how easy it was for them to release the savings, or whether it was earmarked for 
something else important. Also I would want to know why they hadnt used those 
savings to reduce their mortgage, and so make a saving on the interest they were 
paying. So, this all makes it difficult for me to fairly take the savings into account when 
assessing whether they made the PPI unnecessary.
Its hard to know how well West Bromwich would have explained the costs and 
benefits of the policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the 
costs would have affected whether Mr and Mrs H took the PPI  I dont think details of 
the actual cost would have changed how much it appeared useful as an insurance 
product. 
Its possible West Bromwich didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of these.In response West Bromwich didnt make any further substantive comments. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed with my provisional decision. They said that, despite the 29 year gap, we can 
assure you we were not aware we had PPI on the mortgage until last year and, we 
would have remembered being asked to pay out £29 a month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Mr and Mrs H said that West Bromwich had said, in its final letter to them, that the PPI had 
been compulsory. I was puzzled by this and so asked the adjudicator to contact Mr and 
Mrs H to clarify this. In reply, they said they were referring to this section of West Bromwichs 
letter:
Where there is limited evidence, I have looked at this along with our documented 
processes and literature that were in place at the time in order to investigate whether 
your PPI was sold fairly. We can be confident that the process was followed as, 
without this, we wouldnt have been able to provide you with a mortgage - we also 
would not have been able to provide you with the insurance.
But West Bromwich isnt here saying the PPI was compulsory. (And I've looked at the rest of 
its letter and I can't see it is saying that anywhere else.) Instead it is saying it must have 
followed its processes, otherwise it wouldnt have been able to provide the mortgage, or set 
up the insurance. I dont actually completely agree with what West Bromwich says. I dont 
think, just because the mortgage was set up (and the insurance too) it means it followed 
its processes properly. But I agree it must have followed some processes. And what I'm 
saying is that there simply isnt enough evidence to decide that the most important 
processes were not followed. 
Mr and Mrs H questioned why I commented on their savings and didnt see how this is 
relevant to their complaint about PPI. The reason I mentioned this was that, if they had been 
able to prove they had substantial savings, which werent earmarked for something else, I 
might have decided they had no use for PPI  so that would have a been a possible reason 
for saying the PPI was mis-sold. But I would add these would have had to have been very 
high savings. This is because, even with large savings, PPI can still be a sensible thing to 
have, to cover mortgage costs. 
Mr and Mrs H explained they had kept back money to upgrade their property as well as to 
have savings. And, as Ive said, they not surprisingly havent been able to give proof of how 
much these amounted to. But this does mean I couldnt say they its likely their level of 
available savings was so great it would have made PPI of little use to them. 
Having now thought about the extra comments and information Mr and Mrs H have sent, Ive 
still decided not to uphold this complaint. Essentially, as explained in my provisional 
decision, I just dont have enough information to fairly establish that West Bromwich mis-sold 
the PPI. And I also dont have enough evidence to prove that the PPI was inappropriate for 
their circumstances. 
I realise it is very difficult for Mr and Mrs H to prove their case so many years after the 
events. But, as I also explained, it wouldnt be fair to make West Bromwich prove they didnt 
do anything wrong. 
My final decisionI am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman