DRN-3128174
The complaint
Mr A complains that a van he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants Close Brothers to accept his 
rejection of the van, refund his payments, and pay him compensation for lost earnings.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr A obtained a van, which was around four months old, using a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. Around two to three months later an engine 
warning light came on. Mr A took the van to a manufacturers garage and it carried out a 
Diesel Particle Filter (DPF) regeneration under warranty.
But a couple of months after that, the same warning light appeared, and Mr A says there 
was a problem with the clutch. He returned the van to the same garage. It replaced the 
clutch master cylinder under warranty. It said another DPF regeneration was needed, but 
that only one was covered under the terms of the warranty.
Mr A complained to Close Brothers and it arranged for an independent inspection of the van. 
Following the inspection, Close Brothers said it would not uphold Mr As complaint because 
there was no evidence that the faults were there or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Close Brothers had acted unreasonably, taking the conclusions of the independent report 
into account.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
There wasnt enough proof to show that the fault had been caused by his driving style. 
He said hed been driving vans for 15 years and never had this issue  including with the 
replacement van that hes currently using.
The garage and the independent inspector agree there is a fault with the DPF, and it 
needs replacing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
Is there a fault with the van?
Mr A has reported two faults.
In or around July 2021, he reported a problem with the clutch. But the clutch master cylinder 
was replaced under warranty, at no cost to Mr A. And this seems to have resolved the fault 
because the independent report completed in August 2021 says that the clutch and gears 
appeared to be working normally.
In or around May 2021, there was a fault with the DPF. The garage carried out a DPF 
regeneration under warranty, at no cost to Mr A. But in July 2021, the anti-pollution warning 
light came on. The garage said a further regeneration was required. The August 
independent inspection confirmed there were five fault codes, all related to the vans DPF.
Mr A also arranged for the car to be inspected by a third-party garage and it confirmed that 
the anti-pollution system was faulty and that a new anti-pollution filter was needed.
I find there is a fault with the van and that, most likely, the DPF needs regenerating or 
replacing.
Was the fault present when the van was supplied?
If a problem happens within six months of a vehicle being supplied, theres a presumption 
that this was present when the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can provide 
evidence that it wasnt. 
Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection of the van. The engineers report 
concluded that:
We do believe that through a culmination of short journeys, the diesel particulate filter has 
reached its fully saturation level and this is why it is now rendering a fault.
Based on the evidence that was available to ourselves at the time of the inspection, we do 
not consider the selling agent to be responsible for the required costs.
Ive considered the content of the independent engineers report very carefully. And Ive also 
taken into consideration what Mr A says about not having experienced this problem before 
with other vehicles.
After careful consideration, I think its right I place some weight on the reports findings 
because its been completed by an independent party who is an expert in these matters. Im 
satisfied that, although the inspection did not include a road test  because of the warning 
lights being displayed  the inspection was thorough. I find I can place reliance on the 
findings that its more likely than not that the fault was not present or developing when the 
van was supplied to Mr A.
Is Close Brothers responsible for the cost of fixing the faultAs Ive found that, on balance, the fault was not present or developing when the van was 
supplied, I cant conclude that Close Brothers is responsible for fixing the fault. For the same 
reason, it is not obliged to accept Mr As rejection of the van.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr A finds himself. Im aware this has been 
particularly difficult and costly for him because he uses the van for business purposes. But in 
reaching my decision in this case, I must put aside my natural feelings of empathy and look 
at this case impartially and fairly based on the evidence. Thats what Ive done here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman