DRN-2777440
The complaint
Mr C complains that Alphabet (GB) Limited wont refund to him the cost of a replacement 
tyre for a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire agreement with Alphabet that he electronically 
signed in June 2019. The car was delivered to him in August 2019 and had a puncture in 
July 2020. Mr C says that there was no wheel locking nut, jack or spare wheel supplied with 
the car so he called Alphabet. It arranged for a recovery service to collect the car and he 
was provided with a courtesy car. The car wasnt taken to his local manufacturers dealer but 
to a manufacturers dealer about ten miles away. It said that the puncture wasnt repairable 
and the tyre needed replacing, the cost of which would be £182.50. 
Mr C paid for the replacement tyre but asked Alphabet to refund that amount to him. He says 
that if it had supplied the car with the puncture repair kit, or a spare wheel, he could have 
had the puncture repaired locally at a garage of his choice and because those items werent 
supplied with the car he had to pay the dealer's price for replacing the tyre. Alphabet didnt 
agree to pay for the replacement tyre so Mr C complained to it.
It said that Mr C had signed a delivery document which confirmed that the locking wheel nut 
and tools were included in the car and that the dealer had confirmed that, given the severity 
of the puncture, it wouldnt have been possible to affect a temporary repair using the tyre 
inflation kit and that the tyre needed to be replaced. It also said that Mr C hadnt taken the 
option of maintenance cover under his hire agreement which would have included the cost of 
a replacement tyre so it was unable to cover that cost.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that the car was 
misrepresented to Mr C and thought that it was likely that the locking wheel nut and tools 
were included when the car was supplied to him. She thought that it was likely that the tyre 
was split and did need to be replaced and that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Alphabet to 
refund the £182.50 that Mr C had paid for the replacement tyre.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that there 
was no wheel locking nut, jack or spare wheel supplied with the car and the delivery 
document was handed to him pre-ticked and states that there is a spare wheel in the car but 
the car doesnt come with one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the car was delivered to Mr C in August 2019 and he signed a delivery document to 
confirm, amongst other things, that hed checked that the locking wheel nut was 
supplied and that there was a spare wheel/tools;
Mr C says that when the car had a puncture in July 2020, there was no wheel locking 
nut, jack or spare wheel and that he checked the handbook to see where they were 
located but they werent there;
the car was recovered to a manufacturers dealer and it says that the tyre inflation kit, 
locking wheel nut and tool kit were located in a side pocket in the boot of the car;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Mr C signed the delivery document to confirm that hed checked that the locking 
wheel nut was supplied and that there was a spare wheel/tools - he says that the 
delivery driver was in a hurry and the document was given to him pre-ticked - but this 
was a new car for which he had agreed to pay more than £15,000 over four years 
and I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him to have checked the car 
when it was delivered to him, including a check of the listed items, before he signed 
the delivery document;
the document shows a spare wheel/tools as having been checked and Mr C says 
that the car doesnt come with a spare wheel  but it does come with tools and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the ticks against that item are to say that 
the tools had been supplied with the car;
the manufacturers dealer says that the tyre was too severely damaged to be 
repaired so had to be replaced and it charged Mr C £182.50 for a replacement tyre;
Mr C says that the tyre could have been repaired and that he could have bought a 
replacement tyre for much less than the amount that he was charged by the 
manufacturers dealer;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the manufacturers 
dealer has acted incorrectly in these circumstances and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that its opinion was that the tyre did need to be replaced;
the hire agreement that Mr C has electronically signed didnt include maintenance or 
recovery services so I dont consider that Alphabet was responsible for the cost of 
the replacement tyre or providing recovery services to him;
Mr C did receive a recovery service and a courtesy car for seven of the eleven days 
that he was without his car;
I sympathise with Mr C for the issues that he had when the tyre was punctured, but 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car was 
misrepresented to him or that Alphabet has acted incorrectly in its dealings with him 
about these events; andI find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphabet to reimburse 
Mr C for the cost of the replacement tyre, to pay him any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman