DRN-3685601
The complaint
Ms T complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have failed to refund £33,000 she lost 
as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms T authorised the disputed payments she made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platform Binance from her Starling account (where her funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer XMFX from her crypto wallet). The 
payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by 
Starling, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Starling should have done more to prevent Ms T from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that the payment of £10,000 Ms T made on 12 May 2021 was unusual 
given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically 
blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank 
went far enough in all the circumstances with that intervention.
Having considered the extent of Starlings intervention, Im not persuaded they asked 
enough relevant and probing questions to determine whether or not Ms T was at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. However, even if it had intervened earlier (e.g. when Ms T made 
the first scam payment of £3,000 on 8 May 2021) and asked further questions about the 
nature of the payment she was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped 
her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented her loss. Ill explain why. 
Ms T was convinced into making the investment by an individual she had met through a 
dating site, whom she had come to trust over the course of several months. The 
messages sent between her and the scammer show that she had built up such a level of 
trust and confidence that I dont think any warning from the bank would have made her 
believe she was being scammed. She was following the advice of someone she thought 
that she could trust, and who she believed was a highly experienced investor. Miss M 
also said she had carried out her own research into XMFX but didnt find anything 
negative at the time. So, I dont think a scam warning from Starling would have resulted 
in her discovering that she was being scammed, as she had no reason to doubt the 
legitimacy of the broker. 
For example, I note that Starling blocked a subsequent £10,000 payment Miss M tried to 
make to Binance on 22 May 2021. Upon speaking to the bank, she was told that it was 
blocked due to high rates of criminal and fraudulent activity relating to Binance. But even 
this didnt deter Ms T from finding a way to make the payment, as she instead chose to 
transfer the money to her Barclays account where she could then continue to make the 
payment to Binance and on to the scammer. So, it seems very unlikely that any further 
questioning or warning from Starling would have ultimately prevented her from making 
the payments.
Starling are also under no obligation to refund the money to Ms T under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments 
which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case 
here given the payment was made to Ms Ts crypto wallet with Binance before being 
moved on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms T, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Starling can fairly 
or reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman