DRN-2939834
The complaint
Mr P complains that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft declined his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr P had a home insurance policy with ERGO. In 2016 he made a claim after noticing 
cracks in the building and the conservatory. ERGO sent a loss adjuster to inspect the 
damage, who identified some trees that were the probable cause. He advised they should be 
removed but said this would cost less than the policy excess of £2,500. Mr P therefore 
withdrew the claim and had the trees removed.
However in 2019 Mr P noticed further cracks had opened up after the tree removal and he 
contacted ERGO again. It sent out a specialist to examine the problem. The specialist said 
the foundations of the conservatory should have been at least 1,000mm deep and they were 
only 900mm, which meant they werent sufficient for the type of soil it was built on. Based on 
this, ERGO declined the claim as it said the policy excludes claims where there is faulty 
workmanship.
Mr P didnt think this was fair, he said there were also cracks in the main building of the 
property, so he didnt think the problem was just due to the build of the conservatory. He 
made a complaint.
ERGO didnt uphold his complaint. It said as its specialist had concluded the conservatory 
was built on unsuitable ground without deep enough foundations, this meant the subsidence 
was due to faulty design. As this is excluded under the policy, it maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She 
said ERGO hadnt done enough to prove that if the conservatory had been built with deeper 
foundations, the subsidence wouldnt have happened. So she said ERGO hadnt done 
enough to prove the exclusion applied and therefore it wasnt fair to decline the claim. She 
recommended it accept the claim for the conservatory and the internal cracking of the 
property and pay Mr Ps costs for repairs, plus 8% interest on the amounts. And she 
recommended it pay £300 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Mr P accepted our investigators view. However ERGO didnt. It said it thought the soil 
wasnt suitable for the structure to be built on and this was shown by how quickly cracks 
appeared after it was completed. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  an 
event that is covered under the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
prove a policy exclusion applies.
Here, both sides accept there is an insured peril  subsidence at Mr Ps property. However 
ERGO says the policy exclusion for faulty workmanship applies. So I need to decide if it has 
done enough to prove this exclusion and if it has applied it fairly in this case. 
The subsidence Mr P has claimed for has occurred in his conservatory. While not all 
conservatories are subject to building regulations, we would still expect some thought to be 
put into ensuring any structure will stand the test of time and is built suitably to do so. And 
we consider building regulations to be a good measure of this.
ERGO has said it thinks the foundations of the conservatory should have been at least 
1,000mm deep considering the soil type and vegetation that was in the vicinity at the time. 
And when its specialist dug a trial pit, it showed they were only 900mm. So it says this was 
insufficient. 
When considering how deep the foundations should have been, we look at the building 
regulations that were in place at the time of the construction of the structure. Mr Ps 
conservatory was built in 2009. At the time the building regulations say foundations of a 
structure should be a minimum of 750mm but this can be altered depending on nearby 
vegetation.  
I note Mr P has provided his own report that shows there are points where the foundations 
are less than 600mm deep. ERGOs expert has explained that this will often be the case 
where the foundations meet the main building, as builders will want to avoid compromising 
the integrity of the main foundations. So I dont consider this to be relevant here. 
ERGO has said the soil the conservatory was built on and the nearby trees, should have 
been taken into account. And this means the foundations should have been at a depth of at 
least 1,000mm. However it hasnt provided anything to show how it has calculated this 
depth. Other than saying the building regulations say foundations may need to be deeper 
than 750mm. And while I understand its points about the soil and trees, the onus is on the 
insurer to prove the exclusion applies  in this case prove that 900mm are an insufficient 
depth for the foundations. And I dont think it has done enough here to show that the 
foundations should have been more than 900mm.
Further, when declining a claim due to this type of exclusion, Id expect the insurer to show 
its likely that if there hadnt been faulty design then the subsidence wouldnt have occurred. 
And I dont think ERGO has done enough to show this either. It has said it thinks the 
foundations should have been 1,000mm but hasnt provided any evidence that if they had 
been, this would have prevented the subsidence. So Im not persuaded its done enough to 
prove the exclusion applies.
ERGO has said the fact the cracking appeared very soon after the conservatory was built 
shows that it wasnt suitably constructed. Mr P did report some cracking after the build, but 
the specialist confirmed its normal for settlement to occur straight after a structure is 
complete, so I dont think this is enough to say there was faulty workmanship.
As I dont think ERGO has done enough to prove it has fairly applied the exclusion, I agree 
with our investigator that it needs to put things right. It should reimburse Mr P for the cost of 
underpinning the conservatory, plus 8% simple interest to make up for the time he has been without the money. And pay for the cost of redecoration required to make good the damage 
in the conservatory and the main building, again plus 8% interest for any costs that have 
already been incurred. 
Finally I agree the decline of the claim has caused Mr P some distress and inconvenience, 
so ERGO should also pay Mr P £300 compensation to make up for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to:
Reimburse Mr P for the cost of underpinning his conservatory, on receipt of proof of 
the amount he has paid.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum, from the date Mr P incurred this cost, until
the date the claim is paid.*
Pay for any required repairs and redecoration required due to the subsidence in the 
conservatory and main property.
Where these costs have already been incurred, pay 8% simple interest per annum, 
from the date Mr P incurred the cost, until the date the claim is paid.*
Pay £300 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*if ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman