DRN-2213567
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) incorrectly recorded a missed 
payment on her credit file while she had an agreed payment arrangement in place. 
What happened
Mrs F has a loan account and a credit card account with Tesco. Mrs F rang Tesco to discuss 
her financial situation as she had recently left her job, following a dispute with her employers. 
Tesco agreed a temporary holding arrangement for a month until the outcome of a tribunal 
was known, and her financial situation became clearer. In following phone calls to Tesco, 
Mrs F agreed repayment plans for both her credit card and loan account. Mrs F says that it 
was agreed that provided she maintained the arrangement and paid within the month due it 
wouldnt adversely affect her credit file. Mrs F subsequently noticed that Tesco had recorded 
a missed payment on her loan account although she had kept to the agreed repayment 
plans. 
Mrs F complained to Tesco, but it says that they have recorded factual information to the 
Credit Reference Agencies, as they are obliged to do and because Mrs F missed her loan 
payment in November 2019, they had done nothing wrong.
Mrs F wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint as 
she felt that it was Mrs Fs responsibility to have made the payment in November and as a 
result didnt feel that Tesco had done anything wrong here. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Tesco incorrectly noted a missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies while a payment plan was in place. 
Tesco says that they have acted correctly as a payment was missed in November 2019 and 
they are obliged to record the correct information to the appropriate credit reference 
agencies. 
Tesco also say that they have advised Mrs F in writing of the fact arrears would be recorded. 
I have seen letters to Mrs F but from the information available I cant see that Mrs F has 
received a letter from Tesco informing her of the missed payment in November and the 
consequences of this to her credit rating. 
It is worth mentioning that during the time Mrs F lost her employment she had made regular 
contact with Tesco to keep them informed of her position. I have listened to a number of 
phone calls between Tesco and Mrs F and it is clear that Mrs F was trying to ensure that her 
credit rating wouldnt be affected while these arrangements were in place, hoping that the 
outcome of the tribunal would sort out her financial situation in the short to medium term. In these calls it was explained to Mrs F that provided she kept to the payment arrangements in 
each calendar month then her credit file wouldnt record a missed payment but merely reflect 
that she has an arrangement in place which would indicate she was trying to deal with the 
issue. 
What is important here is the conversation that took place during a phone call made in early 
November to Tesco from Mrs F. In this call Mrs F and a member of Tescos financial assist 
team discussed a payment arrangement and went through a detailed income and 
expenditure profile to establish how much Mrs F could afford to repay each month. I should 
mention that in this call and previous phone calls to Tesco the members of the financial 
assist team were consistent in their approach to try and help Mrs F during this difficult time. 
During the call in early November 2019, Mrs F did ask the member of the Tescos team for 
the simplest way to make the payment arrangement and she could begin these from the 
28th. Having listened to the call I am satisfied that Mrs F was referring to the current month 
(November), the reason I say this is during that call Mrs F offered to make a payment via 
faster payment method, which suggests she was prepared to make an instant payment.  
What happened here is, in a genuine attempt to help Mrs F, the member of the team at 
Tesco told Mrs F that direct debit payments must be paid on the first of the month and asked 
her if that would be ok, to which Mrs F said it would. 
This is a key point here as I can see that there was no intention on Tescos part for Mrs F to 
miss Novembers payment but on the other hand Mrs F wasnt given the opportunity to make 
the payment that month in that phone call, despite her initial offer to make the payment on 
the 28th of that month. While the member of Tescos financial assist team did say the 
payment plan would start in December, they didnt address the consequences of the missing 
payment in November when the opportunity to do so was during that call - I am satisfied this 
was unintentional and the member of the financial assist team was genuinely looking at 
setting up a future payment plan. 
I cant see that Mrs F, who had done everything up until that point to avoid her credit file 
being affected by a missed payment, wouldnt have made the payment in November 2019 to 
ensure she was up to date with her payments especially given how important this had been 
to her throughout her discussions with Tesco. Its also reasonable to say that Mrs F wouldnt 
have missed Novembers payment for what was a matter of a couple of  days knowing the 
potential affect it would have on her credit file especially given this was something  she had 
tried hard to avoid.  It follows that Mrs F has missed a payment in November 2019 by a 
misunderstanding and attempt to help her, but nevertheless this has resulted in her credit file 
being affected by the missed payment notification, through no fault of her own. 
While I can see that Tesco have technically correctly reported the missed payment in 
November 2019, I am satisfied, they inadvertently didnt consider the impact of setting up the 
payment plan until the following month and during the call in early November didnt explain 
the missed payment would be reported as such rather than an arrangement as they had 
indicated earlier. It follows that a fairer reflection on Mrs Fs credit file should show that in 
November 2019 a payment plan was in place rather than a payment being missed for the 
reasons I have given before. 
It follows that while Tesco will be disappointed with my decision, I feel that despite the 
intention to assist Mrs F here their actions have resulted in Mrs F having a missed payment 
recorded on her credit file, when this could have been avoided. 
Both Tesco and Mrs F have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has agreed with my decision that her loan repayment in November 2019 should not 
reflect as a missed payment in her credit file but also felt that her credit card account 
payments should also be correctly recorded in her credit file as a payment arrangement and 
not as missed payments. I considered this and supported that view. Tesco have since 
agreed with my provisional decision and also agreed that Mrs Fs credit file should also 
reflect as being part of a payment arrangement and not as missed payments.  
As both parties agree here, Tesco should amend Mrs Fs credit file to correctly reflect a 
payment arrangement was in place for both her credit cards and loan account and not 
recorded as missed payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint.
I would instruct Tesco Personal Finance plc to correct Mrs Fs credit file to reflect that both 
her credit card and loan accounts were in a payment arrangement and not as missed 
payments as previously recorded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman