DRN-3780012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are not happy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has 
dealt with their claim under their home care agreement.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a home care agreement with British Gas which covers repairs to the 
plumbing and drainage system in their home.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim under their policy as the lid to the cold water tank in their loft 
was broken. British Gas engineers attended and confirmed the lid was broken and that it 
needed replacing. British Gas accepted the claim but was unable to source a replacement lid 
as they are now obsolete. It offered to fix a plastic covering on top of the tank instead. Mr 
and Mrs G werent happy with this solution as Mrs G has health issues and they were 
concerned about contamination of the water in the tank. They had covered the tank with an 
old piece of wood and had noticed a smell coming from the tank and debris inside the tank. 
They didnt think that a plastic covering would be safe. 
As an alternative British Gas offered to reimburse the cost of a replacement lid if Mr and Mrs 
G were able to source this themselves. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with British Gas. They said that if a replacement lid could 
not be found then British Gas should replace the whole water tank as it was not fit for 
purpose. British Gas didnt agree as the water tank itself was not faulty and that to replace it 
would be an upgrade. It referred to its terms and conditions and says it has offered a 
reasonable solution. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that British Gas had offered Mr and Mrs G 
a reasonable fix in line with the terms and conditions of their policy and that the water tank 
itself wasnt faulty. She didnt think that British Gas could be held responsible for the 
contamination of the water as Mr and Mrs G had declined the plastic covering and this had 
left the tank without a proper cover for some time.  
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans decision. They want a replacement lid and say 
that the cold water tank isnt functioning properly without one. They would be happy to 
source a replacement lid themselves if British Gas provide them with the specifications and 
where to purchase one. They say that the water contamination is due to the broken lid and 
the length of time British Gas has taken to resolve this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is to look at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. The policy 
covers all repairs to the plumbing system which includes the cold water tank. It goes on to 
say that it covers a replacement of parts that we cant repair. It says that replacements will 
be of similar functionality but not necessarily an identical make and model or type of fitting.
Repair of the lid doesnt seem to have been an option. Mr and Mrs G havent suggested it 
and the two British Gas engineers agreed that the lid needed to be replaced. 
Mr and Mrs G say that they want the lid replaced with a new one. However, I cant expect 
British Gas to do something which isnt possible for it to do. I can see from British Gass 
notes that it searched online for a replacement lid. It also contacted a large specialist 
company who advised that they would struggle to get a lid of the required size. So, Im 
satisfied that British Gas has made reasonable efforts to source a new replacement lid. 
British Gas has also said that if Mr and Mrs G were able to find a replacement themselves it 
would refund the cost. I think this is fair  but I dont expect British Gas to tell Mr and Mrs G 
where to source one. If British Gas was able to do this, it could source the lid itself. 
As British Gas hasnt been able to find a replacement lid, it has offered to make a covering 
out of plastic which it says it can secure over the water tank. The purpose of the tanks lid is 
to protect the water underneath and Ive seen nothing to make me think that British Gass 
solution wont do this - or that its not safe. I do understand that Mrs G has particular health 
issues, but British Gas has said that it can make a safe and secure plastic covering which 
will protect the tank from contamination. As this will have similar functionality to a new 
replacement lid, I think that this is a fair offer under the terms of the policy.
British Gas have declined to replace the tank itself as they say this it is not faulty and 
therefore not covered under the policy. Mr G suggests that without a proper lid the water 
tank is not fully functional. I accept that the tank needs a lid to function properly, but I think 
that British Gas has offered a suitable covering that will allow the tank to do this. The policy 
doesnt say that the lid must be replaced with an identical one  only one with similar 
functionality. The policy also doesnt include any improvements or upgrades, and so I dont 
think it necessary for the tank itself to be replaced when a suitable covering is available. 
Mr and Mrs G say that the water in the tank now produces an odour and that it contains 
debris. They would like British Gas to clean it. However, British Gas made its offer to cover 
the tank with a plastic covering at the start of the claim in September 2021, and this offer 
was declined. In the meantime, the tank hasnt been properly covered and I dont think it now 
fair to hold British Gas responsible for the condition of the water within it. British Gas has 
said that it will carry out a clean of the tank, but Mr and Mrs G need to be aware that there 
would be a charge for this as I dont think its covered under the policy.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but Im not upholding their complaint. I think that British 
Gass offer of fitting a plastic covering to the tank or reimbursing the cost of a new lid 
sourced by Mr and Mrs G is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman