DRN-2165561
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated 
them unfairly in opening a savings account.
What happened
This complaint is about how Virgin Money treated Mr B and Mrs B with regard to opening an 
account in October 2018. Virgin Money used a credit reference agency (CRA) to establish 
identity for completing its opening of account process but the data from the CRA was 
insufficient. Mr B accepts that they didnt provide the identity documents requested to Virgin 
Money when first asked.
Savings were transferred into the account at the time, but the account was restricted by 
Virgin Money due to it not having completed the opening processes. Later Mr B and Mrs B 
discovered the account was restricted when reviewing the account online. So they 
complained.
Virgin Money felt it hadnt done anything wrong, so it rejected their complaint. Mr B feels this 
is unfair and seeks the higher rate of interest he would have received in the savings account 
had the money stayed there. He also seeks a written statement from Virgin Money regarding 
his not being involved in money laundering or terrorism. He also wants Virgin Money to 
disclose its risk assessment of the CRA.
Remaining unhappy they complained here, and our investigators said that Virgin hadnt done 
anything wrong. But Mr B and Mrs B disagree. So their complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr B and Mrs B are invested in this complaint and what they see as wider 
considerations around the regulation of financial services in this case. Mr B has put forward 
substantial amounts of what he considers to be pertinent evidence and clearly spent 
significant time in making arguments about the matter and particularly what he sees as the 
relevant wider considerations.
Although Mr B has been informed of the following key aspects of this case and aims and 
limits of this service I think it worthwhile repeating them for clarity.
Firstly this final decision is only in regard to Virgin Money and how it treated Mr B and Mrs B 
in regard to the opening of the savings account and the following events directly linked to 
those issues. It is not a decision regarding the CRA. If Mr B and Mrs B wish to complain 
about the CRA they can, but it is not for me in this decision to consider what the CRA did or 
didnt do. This decision only considers how Virgin Money acted.
Similarly this service is empowered as an alternative dispute resolution service to deal with 
complainants complaints about firms. As such it isnt the regulator for Financial Services or 
information/data. Mr B and Mrs B have made significant submissions regarding the FCA and 
the ICO. And Mr B and Mrs B can continue with those avenues if they so wish. But it is not 
for me to comment on those bodies. My decision here focusses on how Virgin Money treated 
Mr B and Mrs B in relation to opening the account and subsequent customer service.
It is also clear that Mr B and Mrs B have been disappointed with the handling of this 
complaint by this service. This decision isnt a decision regarding our service. It is a decision 
about the merits of the complaint made by Mr B and Mrs B about Virgin Money. If Mr B and 
Mrs B wish to complain in future about the service provided they have already been provided 
with information how to do so. And if they wish to complain about the FCA or ICO or other 
parties those parties can tell them how to do so.
I should add that this service is designed to be a free disputes service which is impartial and 
fair, which aims to resolve complaints quickly and informally. It is not a court or responsible 
for the regulation of financial services. As Ive said, if Mr B and Mrs B wish to pursue matters 
through other avenues such as the courts then they are at liberty to do so.
With regard to Virgin Money and the CRA I should add that they are both commercial 
enterprises and it is for them to decide how they meet their obligations. This includes with 
regard to the law, regulations, guidance and industry good practice. It is for this service to 
decide on the facts of disputes between complainants such as Mr B and Mrs B and reach a 
fair outcome considering all the arguments and evidence on the dispute at hand.
In October 2018 Mr B and Mrs B opened a new savings account with Virgin Money having 
been account holders with Virgin Money for some years already. The account was created, 
and money was transferred to it. In December 2018 they logged on to the online banking 
system and discovered that although the savings account was created it was restricted in its 
operation. Mr B and Mrs B accept that they didnt provide identity documentation as Virgin 
Money had asked them to. Soon afterward Virgin Money emailed to say that verification 
through the CRA to their identity had been unsuccessful. It was because of this and Mr B 
and Mrs B not providing the identity documentation required that the account was restricted.
Mr B and Mrs B then complained as they were worried about their data being held by the 
CRA. Mr B and Mrs B have said that they did not provide the documentation requested and 
that Virgin Money acted without legitimate reason when it required further identity 
documentation from them. 
There then followed significant correspondence about this and what Mr B and Mrs B 
consider to be wider considerations. The funds were returned from the savings account to 
the original account in April 2019.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments Im satisfied that Mr B and Mrs B 
shouldnt be successful in this complaint. I say this for the following reasons.
Firstly Mr B and Mrs B have not suffered any direct financial loss here. The money they put 
into the account was what they got back.
Mr B and Mrs B will say they lost out on interest. Firstly, this isnt a direct financial loss but 
rather a loss of opportunity to earn interest. Secondly, this flows from them not providing the 
information Virgin Money asked them to and because the CRAs information held wasnt 
complete. Neither of these issues is the fault or responsibility of Virgin Money.Mr B says that Virgin Money didnt have legitimate reason when it asked for identity 
documentation. This is not the case. Firstly Virgin Money is entitled to offer commercial 
services on whatever basis it wishes and if this includes requiring customers to provide 
evidence of who they are it is at liberty to do so. Like any other commercial agreement Mr B 
and Mrs B are fully entitled to not to agree to such terms and walk away. Secondly Virgin 
Money, like financial services companies across the United Kingdom have a number of 
obligations to demonstrate that they know their customers and to mitigate the risks of such 
services being used for fraud, serious crime, money laundering and terrorism. Over the last 
thirty years these obligations have increased substantially as have the penalties for non-
compliance. Such requirements are commonplace. It may be possible that Mr B and Mrs B 
have not encountered such identity requirements before. However this doesnt negate the 
obligations on Virgin Money to have such requirements, not only to protect itself but also to 
fulfil various obligations. So I think Virgin Money has commercial, legal and regulatory 
reasons to ensure up to date identity details of its customers and this is entirely legitimate.
Having said all of that just because it asks all customers and potential customers to provide 
such identity documentation in order to broadly reduce crime, money laundering and 
terrorism doesnt mean it thinks all its customers and potential customers are either 
criminals, money launderers or terrorists. And just because Virgin Money asked for evidence 
of identity here to fulfil its broad obligations about knowing its customers doesnt mean it 
specifically thinks Mr B and or Mrs B are such criminals. And at no point has it said to Mr B 
or Mrs B that it thinks that they are such criminals. So I dont think Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong here. It was well within its rights under the terms of agreement and more 
broadly to ask for such evidence and to restrict the account when Mr B and Mrs B didnt 
provide it. And I am not persuaded that Virgin Money has to issue any statements regarding 
Mr B and Mrs B further to what it has already said.
Mr B has made many arguments about the CRA in this complaint. If he wishes to complain 
to the CRA he is at liberty to do so. However in this case Virgin Money is at liberty to use 
information from CRAs in this instance to try to make the account opening process easier 
for Mr B and Mrs B. But it is not directly responsible for any or all failings of the CRA. And 
Virgin Money is entitled to use any CRA it wishes to as that is a commercial decision for it to 
make. If Mr B and Mrs B wish to not enter into a relationship with Virgin Money because of 
the other businesses it deals with then they are at liberty to not have a relationship with 
Virgin Money.
Mr B has provided much evidence about past events relating to the CRA. But he hasnt 
shown that there is any link between these past events and his specific case. Or that Virgin 
Money has done anything wrong. So this evidence relating to the CRAs past isnt crucial to 
my decision making here.
Mr B has repeatedly asked for Virgin Moneys risk assessment of the CRA here to be 
reviewed. Virgin Money has said this is sensitive data and I agree. It is entirely within its 
rights not to release it without good reason. Such commercially sensitive information could 
be required to be provided to the FCA and other bodies in certain circumstances. But that is 
for those parties to decide upon. And Im satisfied that there is no persuasive reason for me 
to see it in order to reach a fair conclusion on this complaint.
Mr B and Mrs B point to having been customers of Virgin Money for some time. This may be 
the case. But this doesnt negate Virgin Moneys obligations to keep up to date records of its 
customers or stop it from asking for such evidence under the agreed terms.
Mr B and Mrs B point to other evidence with regard to Virgin Money including press 
coverage. But Mr B hasnt shown why this evidence demonstrates that in his case Virgin 
Money has done anything wrong in relation to the account in question. And having considered the matter in its entirety Im satisfied Virgin Money hasnt done anything wrong 
here sufficient to make me uphold this complaint.
It may be that Mr B and Mrs B will continue with other avenues in this matter regarding their 
dissatisfaction with Virgin Money. Which they are at liberty to do. But this final decision 
brings to an end this services process regarding this dispute between the parties here. Mr B 
and Mrs B are at liberty to not accept my decision if they wish.
It may be that Mr B and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision to not uphold their 
complaint. But Im not persuaded Virgin Money has done anything wrong here sufficient for 
me to uphold this complaint. I think it likely that had Mr and Mrs B provided the 
documentation they were reasonably, fairly and legitimately asked for then the account 
would have been fully opened and interest would have accrued.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman