DRN-2113612
The complaint
Ms M has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M was involved in an accident and believed she had contacted AXA in order to make a 
claim. She used an internet search engine to find the contact details for AXA but in fact she 
had contacted an accident management company who collected her car and took it away.
The following day Ms M contacted AXA using the number outlined in her policy 
documentation. AXA took on the claim under her insurance policy and dealt with the claim. 
But it wouldnt pay the costs Ms M incurred with the accident management company for the 
collection of her car (just over £200). When Ms M complained to AXA it did acknowledge that 
its customer service was poor and that it hadnt dealt with Ms Ms calls about all of this very 
well. It offered a total of £125 compensation to cover this and a problem dealing with her 
complaint.
Ms M remained unhappy, so she complained to this service. Our investigator looked in to 
things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he sympathised with Ms M and 
understood that it wasnt her intention to contact an accident management company, he 
didnt think it was fair to hold AXA responsible. This was because Ms M made contact with 
the other company, not AXA, in error and he didnt think it was fair to hold AXA responsible 
for this.
As Ms M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms M has complained as she thought that she had contacted AXA 
initially. I know she says that her internet search made her think she was contacting AXA 
direct, but I dont think it would be fair to hold AXA responsible for this. Ill explain why.
I know Ms M feels that AXA has divulged her details to the accident management company, 
but I havent seen any evidence of this. Ms M contacted the company directly and clearly 
entered into a contract with them for the recovery of her car, so I think it is clear that the 
accident management company gained her details direct. 
Ms M has also outlined that other people contacted this company believing it was their 
insurer as well. So she feels that AXA should be responsible for the accident company and 
the costs she incurred. But Im not swayed by that as AXA hasnt done anything wrong. And 
as the investigator has already explained, this service isnt a regulator and only looks at 
individual complaints. 
In looking at Ms Ms complaint I know she was mistaken about the company she contacted, 
and she says her internet search brought this company up as a contact for AXA. But her 
policy wouldnt have recovered her car after an accident in any event (as she only had 
breakdown cover under her policy) and AXA provided her with the correct contact details in 
order to make a claim in her policy documentation, so I cant say it has done anything wrong. 
As such, I dont think it would be fair to hold AXA responsible for the costs Ms M has 
incurred. I know she has looked at reporting things to the police and taken advice from the 
Citizens Advice Bureau about all of this. But she would have to look at challenging this and 
the recovery costs with the company she approached direct rather than her insurer. As AXA 
did all I would expect it to do in looking at her claim once Ms M made it aware that she was 
involved in an accident the day after the incident.  
Finally, I agree that AXAs service could have been better which it has acknowledged and 
apologised for. It is a shame that a copy of the call isnt available, but AXA has accepted that 
the call shouldve been handled in a more professional way. But Im not asking it to do 
anything further as I think its offer of compensation (totalling £125) seems fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman