DRN-2437548
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt update his credit report in a timely manner 
and gave him incorrect information when he called them. 
What happened
Mr M made enquiries about remortgaging his house in April/May 2020. Mr M says that his 
mortgage company told him that an outstanding balance on his Sainsburys credit card 
would affect the amount he would be able to borrow. So, he paid just over £9,000 off his 
credit card in May 2020.
Mr M expected this to show on his credit report, and when it didnt, he contacted Sainsburys 
to find out why. Mr M says he was given misleading information by Sainsburys staff about 
why his credit file wasnt being updated, and he raised disputes with the credit reference 
agencies as a result. 
Mr M complained to Sainsburys, and they sent him two complaint responses in August 
2020, paying £30 compensation for a delay in responding to his complaint, and £100 
compensation for the incorrect information given by their call centre. They told Mr M that 
theyd stopped automatic credit file updates whilst they were allowing customers to freeze 
their payments during Covid-19. So, Mr Ms credit file update had been delayed whilst they 
worked through a manual process.  
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr M, and didnt think Sainsburys needed to do anything more. 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He says that if Sainsburys had given 
him the correct information when he called, he wouldnt have had to contact them multiple 
times and he could have given this to his mortgage company. As it stands, he received a 
reduced amount and has had to borrow money from family and friends to complete building 
work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there was a delay in Sainsburys updating Mr Ms credit file information after 
hed made a large payment in May 2020. Sainsburys have also said that because they had 
to put processes in place at short notice, they know that their call centres werent always 
providing accurate information to their customers. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr M experienced a delay in his credit file information being 
updated, and that Sainsburys could have given him clearer information when he contacted 
them. So, what I must decide is what action Sainsburys should take to put things right.
 
I acknowledge that Sainsburys have paid Mr M £30 for a delay in responding to his 
complaint. This wasnt compensation for the issue Mr M is complaining about and is not part 
of my considerations. 
Mr M says that he received about £15,000 less on his remortgage because of the delay in 
updating his credit file. 
I can see that Sainsburys offered Mr M a bespoke letter to explain the situation that he could 
pass on to the mortgage company, and Mr Ms credit card statements showed his correct 
balance throughout. So, I think that Mr M had enough evidence of the correct status of his 
credit card account. Its unfortunate if his mortgage company wouldnt accept this evidence, 
but I dont think Sainsburys are responsible for this. 
Mr M has said that he had to borrow money from family and friends in order to pay 
contractors. I havent seen any evidence that Mr M has paid a higher interest rate on this 
borrowing than he would have had he taken it on his remortgage, so I dont think hes lost 
out financially by taking this action. 
I appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Mr M to have to contact Sainsburys on a 
number of occasions in order to understand exactly why his credit file hadnt been updated. 
Sainsburys have paid Mr M £100 compensation for this, which is in line with the award I 
would have made for distress and inconvenience if one hadnt already been paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plcs existing 
payment of £100 to Mr M is a fair way to resolve the complaint and I dont require it to take 
any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman