DRN-1579301
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc debited additional 
legal fees to its account without any notice.
What happened
A wanted to take development finance from RBS. There were legal costs to be incurred on 
behalf of RBS including to assess and monitor the contracts and security. A had seen a 
number of quotes for this work and a legal firm with costs of around £9,000 plus VAT and 
outlays was instructed. These costs increased beyond the original amount expected. And on 
6 March 2019 A was told that a further bill of £8,750 plus VAT and outlays would need to be 
paid. A agreed by responding to an email from RBS about this. But these further related 
costs of £10,624 were not debited to As account until 2 October 2019 and RBS gave A no 
prior warning of this. The director of A believed this to be a fraudulent payment and 
cancelled his bank cards. This caused disruption and inconvenience. RBS offered to pay A 
£750 having increased this from its initial offers of £200 and £500. A did not accept this and 
said it also had not had a breakdown of the costs.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that A had 
provided an indemnity to RBS for these costs. And it had agreed to pay the additional 
amount. If A still felt it wanted to challenge the legal basis for them and claim it had been 
forced to pay them that was a point better suited for the courts. She arranged for A to be 
given a breakdown of the legal costs. RBS had accepted that it should have given A 
advance notice of this significant payment from its account but she thought that the 
compensation provided was appropriate.
A did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a term sheet from RBS which the director of A agreed to on its behalf. That stated 
that a condition precedent would be a report by the legal advisors to RBS on the 
development documents, management agreements, planning agreements and other 
matters. A further agreed to meet all costs and expenses on demand and that these would 
include ongoing monitoring costs. 
In addition, Ive seen documents from RBS indicating that by October 2018 legal costs were 
already over the initial estimates and that its Regional Director brought this to the attention of 
A. As our investigator has said A specifically agreed to the further costs in March 2019 so 
that the financing could continue.
A has now been provided with a detailed breakdown of the legal costs and I understand that 
the second portion were reduced down from a higher amount that had been based on billed 
hours by the lawyers. Im afraid I consider A agreed to meet these costs and I have no basis 
to find these were unreasonably applied.
It is though accepted that debiting these costs without notice was unreasonable. RBS says 
that it had wrongly thought that these had been paid. This and the lack of any information to 
back them up caused A inconvenience and the need to sort out matters so that important 
business payments could be made. I consider that the compensation RBS has offered is 
reasonable to cover all these areas and as I say A now has the breakdown of costs. So, I 
wont be requiring RBS to do anymore than it has already offered to. A remains free to 
pursue this matter through legal action if it does not accept my decision and subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
RBS has offered to pay A £750 to settle the complaint. I find that is fair and so I require The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay A £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman