DRN-2274941
The complaint
Miss R says Lowell Financial Limited is treating her unfairly because it will not remove two 
separate defaults from her credit file on two different debts that it holds.
What happened
Miss R says that her extreme personal circumstances and failings of the firms with whom 
she originally held these debts means Lowell should remove the defaults it is reporting on 
her credit file.
Lowell says when it purchased these debts, defaults had already been placed on the credit 
file by the original debt holders (who were different firms). It says within each of these 
purchase agreements there was a requirement that meant Lowell became responsible for 
the reporting of these debts on the credit file. It has considered everything that its done and 
doesnt feel it needs to do any more.
Miss R, due to family circumstances, is looking to get a mortgage in order to support her 
family. She says she cannot do this because of the defaults on her credit file and it would be 
fair, all things considered, to remove them.
Miss R complained to Lowell and it said that it had treated her fairly. Miss R disagreed, so 
she brought her complaint to our service. The Investigator found that Lowell made the 
commercial decision to close both the accounts. So he decided that both the defaults should 
be updated to show partially settled status with a zero balance. But as the reporting would 
then be a fair reflection of the situation he couldnt make Lowell remove the defaults 
completely on compassionate grounds. As Miss R remains unhappy this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should start by saying Im terribly sorry to hear of the enormous challenges that Miss 
R has faced and continues to face.
Lowell and Miss R dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
I should add that Lowell is now responsible for the reporting on Miss Rs credit file. However 
it isnt responsible for the actions of the previous debt holders in adding the defaults to the 
credit file. It is responsible for the reporting on the credit file since it purchased these debts 
and if it were aware that the reporting was incorrect or unfair it should remedy that. I can see 
Miss R is now in the process of complaining about the placings of the original defaults by 
those firms. And clearly this will have to be dealt with separately to this decision about 
Lowell.
I have considered very carefully the position that Miss R finds herself in, and indeed those 
close to her. Its clear to me that Miss R faces terrible difficulties and huge amounts of stress 
and pressure. And I fully appreciate that the presence of defaults on her credit file could be 
limiting to her plans for supporting those close to her. Clearly there has been an extended 
period of suffering in her life and this information has been at the forefront of my mind when 
reaching this decision. I hope what Ive said here makes clear the context within which I 
make this decision.
Lowell has demonstrated that at different times it purchased two debts from different debt 
holders relating to Miss R. In both instances, defaults had already been placed on her credit 
file by those former debt holders by the time Lowell purchased those debts. This isnt 
contended by either party. 
Similarly Miss R hasnt suggested she wasnt in debt or that the debts were fully paid off. 
What Miss R is saying is that she was in an abusive relationship and that her partner at the 
time was controlling the spending and payments on these accounts. She says this 
relationship is now over and that she feels it is unfair for these defaults to continue to be 
present on her credit file considering these circumstances. 
From Lowells records I can see that Miss R contacted it in November 2016 and told it that 
shed had an operation and there were some consequential medical issues. Lowell then 
wrote to her on occasions after this relating to this issue. It didnt receive any responses from 
Miss R so it decided on a commercial basis to stop collection activity and thus wouldnt 
pursue Miss R for that debt. Lowell has subsequently as a result of Miss Rs complaint 
decided for the same reasons to stop collection activity on the other debt Miss R had with 
Lowell. And Lowell has agreed to update both accounts as being partially settled on her 
credit file.
It has also been in contact with both previous debt holders to establish what those 
businesses knew about Miss Rs personal circumstances at the time. Miss R says she had 
told both debt holders about the domestic and financial abuse at the time. But neither 
business response to Lowell shows that they knew that Miss R was suffering domestic and 
financial abuse at the times they defaulted her. So I dont think Lowells has done anything 
wrong by not removing the defaults from her credit file. And as Ive explained Miss Rs 
complaints about those businesses are being dealt with separately.
Miss R in her response to the Investigators view has pointed to what she told the original 
debt holders at the time. But this will be covered by her complaints about them. Lowell 
looked into these matters and is entitled to rely on what those original debt holders told it. So 
I dont think it has to do more on this issue. And Im sorry Miss R felt that the Investigator 
had been unsympathetic to her situation. I am sure this wasnt the intention.
Miss R also points to discussions she had with Lowell regarding paying off the debts. And 
whilst I appreciate this was discussed with Lowell the debts werent paid off, so the current 
position of Lowell reporting the debts as partially settled is fair. If Miss R pays off the 
remaining debts then Lowell will need to update the credit files to show the debts being fully 
settled.
Lastly I should add that the decisions other businesses make regarding lending based on 
credit files are the responsibilities of those firms alone. And it is for businesses who report on 
credit files to ensure what they report is accurate. So although Miss R feels Lowell should remove the defaults it is not responsible for the lending decisions of other firms. That 
responsibility sits with the lending firm.
All in all Im satisfied that Lowells hasnt treated Miss R unfairly and that it has fairly 
remedied the issues that needed remedy. So I dont think it needs to do anymore.
I appreciate Miss R will be disappointed by my decision. And I must say again that Im 
terribly sorry to hear of everything thats happened. But I dont think Lowell has done 
anything wrong in its reporting on Miss Rs credit file. So I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Lowell Financial 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman