DRN-2944251
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about a mortgage they have with more 2 life ltd, on which 
interest rolls up. They have been making lump sum payments to the mortgage since they 
took it out, but a payment from November 2019 wasnt credited to the account. Also, the 
payment made in March 2020 wasnt acknowledged, so they werent sure that it had been 
received. Theyre also unhappy with how more 2 life dealt with their queries and complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage is a lifetime arrangement where interest rolls up onto the balance. 
No payments need to be made to the mortgage. However, Mr and Mrs L were able to make 
voluntary payments of the equivalent to 10% of the mortgage balance each year.
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs L made a payment by card and it was credited to the mortgage 
account. 
In November 2019 more 2 life received a cheque from Mr and Mrs L and it acknowledged 
receipt. Its internal notes state that the payment wouldnt be credited to the account until the 
cheque had cleared. Unfortunately, it appears that the cheque wasnt fed into the banking 
system and so the money wasnt taken from Mr and Mrs Ls bank account and wasnt 
credited to the mortgage. 
In March 2020 a further payment was made over the telephone and the payment was 
credited to the account against the new mortgage years payment allowance. more 2 lifes 
records show that an acknowledgement was sent to Mr and Mrs L by email. However, they 
have told us that they didnt receive that acknowledgement. 
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs L were sent an annual statement for their mortgage. This showed 
the payment made by them in April 2019, but not the one paid in November 2019. The 
March 2020 payment was made several days after the statement date, so that payment 
wouldnt have shown on the statement. 
In early July 2020 Mrs L contacted more 2 life as she hadnt received annual statements in 
2019 or 2020. Mr and Mrs L explained to us that this was because they were concerned 
about whether the March payment had been credited to the mortgage, as it hadnt been 
acknowledged. Due to this query, more 2 life identified the November 2019 cheque hadnt 
cleared (it had lost it) and the money hadnt been credited to the account.
When Mrs L telephoned more 2 life to chase the requested statements a couple of weeks 
later, the error that had occurred was explained to her. At this point it said that it thought 
Mr and Mrs L would have noticed that the money hadnt been taken from their bank account 
the previous November. However, in light of its mistake, it offered to reduce the mortgage 
balance by the amount of interest that wouldnt have accrued if the payment had been 
credited to the account, and pay them £70 compensation. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept. 
Around a month later Mrs L called more 2 life again chasing the annual statement shed 
requested at the beginning of July 2020. Shortly thereafter Mrs L also contacted this service. 
Following a discussion about the situation with us, Mr and Mrs L made a written complaint to 
more 2 life. more 2 life has said that while this complaint was received, it contained an 
incorrect reference number, and so it wasnt correctly routed internally and an investigation 
didnt start. When Mr and Mrs L didnt receive a response to the written complaint, they 
asked this service to consider the complaint. 
We wrote to more 2 life to inform it that Mr and Mrs L had asked us to consider their 
complaint. Following that, more 2 life gave a detailed explanation of what had happened to 
Mrs L in a telephone call. It confirmed it was the November 2019 payment that hadnt been 
credited to the mortgage. more 2 life provided a spreadsheet detailing how that payment 
would have affected the mortgage if it had been credited  around £140 less in interest 
would have been paid on the mortgage. This was discussed with Mrs L and more to life 
offered to credit the account with this amount, although Mrs L understood that the missing 
payment would also be applied to the mortgage as at the date the cheque had been 
received. Mr and Mrs L werent happy with the response theyd received and asked this 
service to look at their complaint. 
more 2 life wrote to Mr and Mrs L providing its response to their complaint. It provided them 
with evidence of the transactions that had happened and a calculation of what the account 
position would have been had the November 2019 payment been made. It confirmed what 
had happened and the loss Mr and Mrs L had suffered. It also offered Mr and Mrs L £400 for 
the upset and inconvenience the mistake caused them.
Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied with more 2 lifes response. They explained to us that 
they wanted to be compensated for the time they had spent over the previous five months on 
trying to sort the matter out and the stress it had caused them.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. he thought it was clear that more 2 life 
had made a mistake in not applying the payment in November 2019. He wasnt satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs L should have been aware of this, as they had no reason to check their 
mortgage account, given the payment had been acknowledged. As such, it was 
recommended that more 2 life complete the necessary adjustments to the mortgage account 
and provide Mr and Mrs L a mortgage statement for the relevant mortgage year showing the 
payments and the corrected interest. However, in relation to the compensation payment, he 
thought the amount offered was reasonable.
more 2 life and Mr and Mrs L accepted the investigators recommendation. However, there 
appears to have been a misunderstanding about the redress. As the November 2019 
cheque wasnt processed, the money remained in Mr and Mrs Ls bank account, rather than 
being transferred to more 2 life. As such, more 2 life only processed an interest adjustment 
on the mortgage account  it credited the account with £241.97 as at December 2020.  
However, Mr and Mrs L were expecting the mortgage account to show the November 2019 
payment being credited to the account. They asked our investigator to look into the matter 
again and said that they didnt think the £400 was enough for the amount of time and upset 
the matter was causing them.
more 2 life confirmed that the November 2019 payment wasnt showing, as it hadnt received 
the money. However, if Mr and Mrs L wanted to make the payment, more 2 life confirmed 
they could do so. Our investigator considered the matter and confirmed to more 2 life that it 
would be appropriate for Mr and Mrs L to be allowed to pay the same amount as they had in 
November 2019 again, and for it to be applied to the mortgage backdated to the date the 
cheque from that time would have cleared. More 2 life didnt agree and so it was decided the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The error that occurred in this case is clear and more 2 life has accepted responsibility for it. 
What is in dispute is what should be done in order to rectify the error. When considering 
redress this service aims, as close as possible, to place the complainant in the position they 
would have been in, but for the financial business mistake. 
In this case, more 2 life failed to process a cheque Mr and Mrs L gave it. So to place them in 
the same position as they should have been in, they should be allowed to make that 
payment again and for more 2 life to credit it to the mortgage account as at the date the 
money should have been applied to the mortgage. The original payment was made by 
cheque and received by more 2 life on 14 November 2019. As it was a cheque, the money 
wouldnt have been applied to the mortgage until it had cleared  usually three working days. 
Interest on the mortgage account should be adjusted to reflect the lower mortgage balance 
from that point on. 
I have also considered the compensation that has been paid to Mr and Mrs L. I acknowledge 
that they dont think its enough, especially in light of the further issues after the investigators 
view. Mr and Mrs L should reasonably have known the money hadnt been debited from their 
bank account in November 2019 as it was a significant sum, so I dont think reasonably they 
would have been expecting this payment to have been deducted from the mortgage balance 
when more 2 life adjusted it in December 2020. Having considered the matter carefully, I am 
satisfied the £400 more 2 life has paid is enough in the circumstances.
Putting things right
If Mr and Mrs L make the lost payment from November 2019 now, more 2 life should apply it 
to the mortgage account as at 17 November 2019. Interest should then be adjusted to reflect 
this payment up to the date of the restructure of the mortgage account. 
More 2 life should recreate the 2019/20 and 2020/21 mortgage statements showing the 
restructured mortgage payments and interest debits. These should be sent to Mr and Mrs L. 
I would, however, highlight to Mr and Mrs L that the statements will not include any 
payments theyve made in the current mortgage year, as they will be included in their 
2021/22 mortgage statement that will be issued in 2022.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
more 2 life ltd should undertake the actions detailed above, if Mr and Mrs L choose to pay 
the November 2019 payment again.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman