DRN-4235524
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) transferred his graduate account to an 
everyday account and is now paying charges for the overdraft facility. Mr D says he was 
advised in a branch that the overdraft would remain interest free while he was a student until 
one year post study. Mr D wants Santander to clear his outstanding overdraft balance or 
refund the overdraft charges. 
What happened
Mr D held a student account with Santander. The student account came with an interest free 
overdraft facility. Following this the account became a graduate account which continued to 
benefit from an interest free overdraft for a year and following that the overdraft would be 
interest free on the first £1,000 of the overdrawn balance.
Mr D completed his undergraduate course in 2020 and went on to do a post graduate course 
which ended in December 2021. Mr D noticed he was being charged overdraft interest 
around this time. Mr D says he visited a branch of Santander in July 2022 to query the 
charges. 
Mr D says he was told he wouldnt be charged any interest as he was still a student and that 
following completion of his course, he would continue to benefit from the interest free 
overdraft for a year and then for a further 12 months provided his balance was kept below 
£1,000. Mr D said he provided his confirmation of student letter, but his account was still 
changed to an everyday account and he continued to be charged for the overdraft. 
Mr D complained via webchat. Santanders adviser explained that it never received proof of 
Mr D being a student and that was why his account wasnt changed to a student account. Mr 
D again provided proof of study but this showed Mr D was a post graduate student and the 
adviser explained that Santander dont provide an interest free overdraft for post graduate 
students and that it cant extend accounts for post grad courses.
Mr D complained that he was told in branch something different. The advisor reconfirmed the 
eligibility of the student and graduate accounts and apologised if he was given mis-
information. Although Santander had no record of what information Mr D was given when he 
visited its branch it compensated him £100.
Mr D was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that Mr Ds 
graduate account had been transferred to an everyday account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that it was entitled to charge interest for a credit facility and 
didnt think the charges had been applied unfairly.
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  our rules allow me to do that.
And the crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he was given the wrong information regarding his 
eligibility for a student account and as a result has been charged for his overdraft unfairly. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Santander charge for its products including overdraft facilities were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately, 
how much a bank charges for its products and services is a commercial decision. 
So providing Santander notified Mr D of the change in his account from graduate to 
everyday account  which it says it did and has provided a copy of the letter sent in July 
2022 - it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
From what I understand Mr D graduated in December 2020. This meant for a further year he 
benefitted from having an interest free overdraft following which he would be charged on 
balances of more than £1,000.  And this looks to be what has happened in Mr Ds case, so I 
dont think Santander has treated Mr D unfairly as it looks like it has applied charges 
correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
I accept Mr D was under the impression that he would be entitled to an interest free overdraft 
while he was a student  post graduate or not. But I dont think that this wouldve made a 
material difference to Mr Ds financial situation as the change in what account was on offer 
was going to happen regardless of what Mr D thought. Im also not persuaded that he was 
mis-informed in branch rather than him just mis-understanding. 
In any case Santander has already compensated Mr D £100 for any mis-information 
provided and as I cant say for sure Santander did provide incorrect information and 
Santander isnt obliged to offer any particular product and hasnt charged Mr D incorrectly for 
his overdraft, it follows that I dont think Santander needs to do anything more.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman