DRN-2737515
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide him with a cash 
refund, after cancelling his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 January 2020, Mr J purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided him 
with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mr Js 
trip, including post- departure cover, with Mr J going on holiday from 3 June 2020 to 17 June 
2020. Mr J paid £374.19 for his policy, which included a discount of £14.03. The policy also 
included cover for five medical conditions they declared.
Mr J has explained that on 22 May 2020 the airline operator they were due to be travelling 
with, let them know their flight was to be cancelled. And so, on 26 May 2020, he contacted 
Great Lakes to cancel his insurance policy, and request a refund of the premium paid. 
At this point, Great Lakes said it would allow Mr J to move his travel insurance cover dates. 
As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of when he originally 
purchased his travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mr J could be given a pro-rata credit 
voucher for the unused part of his original travel insurance policy. Mr J would then be able to 
use this to purchase a new travel insurance policy - so long as he did so within 36 months.
Mr J declined the above offers and expressed his dissatisfaction with them. He felt he should 
be provided with a cash refund for the policy. 
Great Lakes considered Mr Js concerns, but its position remained the same. It said it 
couldnt offer Mr J a cash refund for his policy. It said Mr J had benefitted from cancellation 
cover since he purchased his policy in January 2020. And the terms and conditions of the 
policy didnt provide for a refund, after the 14 day cooling-off period had elapsed. 
Instead Great Lakes reiterated its offer, saying that;
So long as the original policy dates had not expired, and the cover was for the same 
duration and destination, Mr J could move his single trip cover to within 18 months of 
the original policy purchase date, free of charge. If the duration or destination were to 
change an additional premium would be charged.
It could provide Mr J with a pro-rata voucher refund, valid for 36 months, that can be 
used against a new policy.
Mr J remained unhappy with Great Lakes position. He didnt think a credit voucher was a 
fair way to receive a refund. And, he said that it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to keep 
any premiums in relation to medical cover he hadnt used.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 3 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr J was 
due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr J with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the 
remaining premium from the date Mr Js holiday was cancelled, to the end date of the policy 
on 17 June 2020. 
Our investigator noticed that Great Lakes hadnt calculated its refund from the holiday 
cancellation date of 22 May 2020. But they had calculated this from the date Mr J had called 
to cancel the policy  26 May 2020. However, with this services involvement, and having 
seen evidence of the holiday cancellation date, Great Lakes agreed to provide a pro-rata 
refund from 22 May 2020, to 17 June 2020. This equated to £48.74 to be provided in 
voucher form.
It was also clarified that this voucher was valid for 36 months, from the point of policy 
cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance policy. Mr J 
could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if he would rather do this. 
And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He still felt that Great Lakes should be 
providing a monetary refund. And he said a large proportion of the premium he had paid to 
Great Lakes would have been for medical cover. And so, he felt he was due an additional 
refund.
Because Mr J remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund to Mr J.As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund 
after the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives 
examples of what would be considered exceptional circumstances. Whilst I can 
appreciate why Mr J wanted to cancel his insurance policy, I dont think his reasons 
for cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, 
which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. And in the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable. Mr J was covered from the date he purchased his policy, for any 
cancellation claim he needed to make. And the premium he paid included this cover. 
As Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its 
reasonable that Mr J pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr J didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of his holiday. He received a 
refund for this flight and hotel from the providers. Instead Mr J called Great Lakes on 
26 May 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given the holiday was 
cancelled on 22 May 2020. Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure 
from this point, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer 
to now provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It 
means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to 
cover.  
I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I do appreciate Mr J would prefer to receive the refund in cash. But as Ive 
explained above, Mr J isnt entitled to this. And I dont think the terms of the voucher 
Great Lakes has offered Mr J are unreasonably restrictive. It does allow Mr J cover to 
go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned, at no extra cost. And, 
although I do understand Mr J has referenced his age and pre-existing health 
conditions, I have to be mindful that Mr J was willing to travel withhis pre-existing 
health conditions previously. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair. Great Lakes has shown 
me that it splits the premium equally over the period of cover, rather than dividing this 
into pre-travel cancellation and post-departure cover. I dont think there is any 
material unevenness in calculating the premium in this way  and it is something that 
applies to all policyholders in similar circumstances to Mr J. So, I dont think Great 
Lakes has treated Mr J differently, and therefore unfairly, in this respect.
 Mr J has referenced that his premium would have been more expensive due to his 
medical conditions, and that Great Lakes shouldnt be keeping the funds in relation to 
this. But Mr Js medical conditions would have been taken into account for all areas 
of cover, including cancellation and post-departure areas of cover. As above, the 
total premium is split equally over the term of the cover. Given this, Im satisfied that 
this point doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. The refund offered already 
takes into account the total premium charged, including any premiums that have 
been paid as a result of Mr Js pre-existing medical conditions. Great Lakes has now calculated the voucher amount from the date Mr Js holiday 
was cancelled  22 May 2020, to the date the policy was due to end. This meant 
there would be 27 days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - 
which equates to £48.74 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great 
Lakes was not on risk for the 27 days after the holiday was cancelled, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman