DRN-2893855
The complaint
Mrs M complains that EUI Limited (EUI) allowed her car insurance policy to automatically 
renew each year without her consent.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs M took out car insurance online with EUI. Whilst EUI is an intermediary for the 
insurer, it has authority to take payments and cancel the policy.
The policy was set up with automatic renewal. Mrs M says she telephoned EUI the same 
day to say she did not want the policy to automatically renew but would be happy for them to 
quote for renewal. Mrs M says she had no further contact from EUI and received no renewal 
letters. 
In 2019 she noticed that direct debits were still being taken from her account and she 
contacted EUI. She also informed her bank that the direct debits had been taken without her 
consent. Whilst EUI were investigating the matter, her bank refunded the direct debits to her 
for the entire policy premiums under the direct debit guarantee.
Mrs M was then contacted by EUI requesting repayment of the policy premiums for the years 
2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Mrs M complained saying that she had not agreed to automatic renewal and referred EUI to 
her call in 2015. EUI say that they have no record of this telephone call. They say that they 
sent Mrs M renewal documents each year in July. They say they received no communication 
from Mrs M and so the policy automatically renewed each year. They did not uphold her 
complaint but did agree to cancel the policy from 16 August 2019 as a gesture of goodwill. 
EUI also paid Mrs M £25 compensation as there was delay processing this cancellation.
Mrs M was not happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen any evidence of the 
telephone call, and that the policy was set up for automatic renewal with renewal notices 
being sent out each year. He did, however, think that EUIs offer of compensation for the 
delay in cancelling the 2019 policy was fair.
Mrs M was not happy with this and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt think theres anything wrong with automatic renewal as long as the 
policyholder is made aware of it. This prevents consumers being unintentionally left without 
insurance cover. In this case, Mrs M accepts that she knew the policy was originally set up 
to automatically renew. She also set up a credit agreement and a direct debit to pay on a 
monthly basis. So at the point of taking out the policy, Im satisfied that she had given 
consent for automatic renewal and payment by direct debit.
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions that were sent to Mrs M. S16 of the General 
Conditions of Cover says: When your policy is due for renewal, we may offer to renew it for 
you automatically using the payment details you have already given, unless we or you have 
advised otherwise. We will contact you by your chosen method of communication before 
your policy ends and before taking any payment to confirm your renewal premium and policy 
terms. If you do not want to renew your policy you must call us before your renewal date to 
let us know. Similar information is also contained in the Insurance Product Information 
Document. A consumer accepts these conditions when taking out their policy. 
Mrs M says, however, that she never wanted automatic renewal, and this is why she 
telephoned immediately to cancel it. She says that she wouldnt have asked EUI to look for 
the telephone call in 2015 if it hadnt taken place. She says that she has health problems 
which means she experiences symptoms of memory loss and finds it easier to deal with 
insurance cover on a yearly basis. 
Mrs M says that she telephoned EUI the same day she took out her policy. However, Ive not 
seen anything to support this. EUI say they have no record of the call. Ive seen a copy of 
their call log and I cant see any calls from Mrs M to EUI on the day she took out the policy in 
2015, or at all. Im aware that EUI no longer have call recordings from 2015.
I cant say for sure whether the call took place or not. However, I can make a decision by 
looking at the evidence and deciding what I think is more likely to have happened. As I 
havent seen any record of the call from either Mrs M or EUI, Im not satisfied that Mrs M 
cancelled the automatic renewal. 
 
Mrs M says that she had no idea the policy was renewing and that she received no 
communication from EUI. However, Im satisfied that letters were sent each year as Ive 
seen copies of the renewal letters addressed to Mrs M. EUI say that no correspondence was 
returned to them. As well as advising Mrs M that renewal was due, the letters would have 
served as a reminder that the policy was still in existence. I also think that Mrs M would have 
had the opportunity at some point over the years to have looked at her bank account and 
seen the monthly direct debits payments coming out, as she did in 2019. 
Even though the policy was set up to automatically renew, I would still expect EUIs renewal 
letters to clearly advise that the policy would renew automatically. Ive looked at the renewal 
letters sent in July 2016, 2017 and 2018. Ive also seen copies of credit agreements and 
direct debit confirmation. I have not looked at 2019 as EUI have already refunded the 
premium for this year. The letters issued in 2016 and 2018 clearly state that the policy will 
automatically renew, and that payment will be taken from the bank details they hold on file. 
The 2017 renewal letter doesnt specifically mention automatic renewal although It does say 
that payment will be taken from the details held on file. However, Ive also seen an email 
sent to Mrs M in 2017 which does confirm that her policy will automatically renew. If she 
didnt want this to happen, she was advised to contact them.
On the basis of this, Im satisfied that EUI informed Mrs M that her policy would be 
automatically renewed each year. 
Mrs M says that after using the policy for the first year, her car was then off the road and she 
didnt use it. She says it was parked on private property and therefore didnt need insurance. 
Mrs M should be aware, however, that even if her car is off road, she should complete a 
Statutory Off Road Notice (SORN) as required under road traffic law. Im also not entirely satisfied that Mrs Ms car wasnt used  and that she hasnt therefore 
had the benefit from the insurance policies. Ive seen MOT records available on the 
government website, and I can see from these that Mrs Ms MOT was renewed regularly, 
and that the cars mileage increased each year. EUI say that they have checked the industry 
database and no other insurance was recorded for Mrs Ms car. Mrs M has also confirmed 
this. I think Mrs M has had the benefit of her car insurance and could have made a claim had 
she needed to.
I understand that Mrs M has been suffering from ill health and stress for some time and I 
would like to reassure her that Ive considered everything she has told us. I know that this 
will not be the decision she was hoping for, but taking into account all of the above Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for EUI to automatically renew the policy each year and take 
payment by direct debit. 
EUI offered to cancel the 2019 policy as a gesture of goodwill. There was, however, a two 
month delay in processing this cancellation. Mrs M had to ring to chase this and I think that 
EUIs offer of £25 for distress and inconvenience was fair. I understand that this sum has 
already been paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and dont require EUI Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman