DRN-2979706
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) irresponsibly granted him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr W acquired a new car. He financed the deal through a Conditional Sale 
Agreement with Vauxhall. Mr W was required to make 36 monthly repayments of £219.91, 
with a final payment of £6,934 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £18,430.85.
Mr W says that Vauxhall didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. He also complains that he didnt get the 
value he was promised for the car he was part exchanging. He says he was promised 
£2,000 but on studying the figures he realised hed only received £500.
Vauxhall didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included credit 
checks in order to ensure the agreement was affordable for Mr W. Vauxhall said it had been 
told Mr Ws salary was £35,000 per year and they noted that he had been able to make all 
payments on time and in full.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Vauxhall didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree and said he had several loans and credit cards with high limits at the time 
of application and he said he had no option but to pay the agreement on time as he needed 
the car. He didnt think that suggested the deal was affordable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Affordability
Vauxhall will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Vauxhall hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a 
copy of the credit file supplied by Mr W. I think this gives a good indication of what Vauxhall 
would likely have seen. At the time of the application it shows that Mr W had no 
bankruptcies, County Court Judgements or Individual Voluntary Arrangements in place. 
There were several live loans with repayments totalling £579, two credit cards and two 
current accounts, but there were not signs that Mr W had been struggling to make payments 
towards his various credit agreements. 
Vauxhall have suggested theyd been told by Mr W that his income was £35,000 per year 
but theyve not provided evidence of that and I think it would have been proportionate for 
them to confirm that income. Thats because the credit file showed Mr W did have several 
credit commitments and they would have wanted to assure themselves of his ability to repay 
the monthly instalments on his agreement sustainably.
So, I dont think Vauxhall carried our proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for Vauxhall to have verified Mr Ws income in some 
way. Ive reviewed Mr Ws bank statements for the three months prior to his application and 
these show his average income at the time was £2,655 per month. Mr W says this income 
included overtime that wasnt guaranteed. I think its likely if Vauxhall had asked for wage 
information that they would have decided Mr Ws average income was about £2,655 and as 
that was an averaged figure I dont think it would be unreasonable to incorporate the 
overtime that had been completed; it wasnt a one off.
I cant be certain what Mr W would have told Vauxhall had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Vauxhall needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ws 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr Ws regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,855. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included payment towards a mortgage, council tax, direct debits and regular 
payments, credit cards, food, petrol, account fees and overdraft fees. Mr W has explained 
that his energy bills were paid in cash and that would take his committed monthly 
expenditure to £1,955. That left a disposable income of £700 per month from which I think 
Mr W would have been likely to be able to afford the monthly payment towards his car 
agreement and the associated motoring expenses. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that Vauxhall acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Scrappage scheme
Ive not been provided with details of the scrappage scheme that was operated by the 
dealership at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. Mr W says that scheme allowed £2,000 
for his car. But the vehicle invoice says the part exchange value was £500 and articles the 
adjudicator has been able to locate from the dealership group suggest that only a trade in of 
up to £2,000 was available. I think its likely that trade in deal would have been available 
across the dealerships group and Im not therefore persuaded that theres enough 
information to suggest its most likely Mr W was promised a trade in of £2,000. 
I dont therefore think Vauxhall need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman