DRN-1418107
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) blocked her credit card while 
she was abroad. This meant she couldn't complete a purchase she wanted to make, and 
she says the bank's actions caused her considerable inconvenience. 
What happened
Halifax blocked Ms M's credit card while she was abroad, so she couldn't complete a 
purchase she wanted to make. Ms M was upset that she couldn't get the item she wanted, 
and she says Halifax's actions caused her considerable inconvenience.
Halifax didn't consider it had done anything wrong by blocking the transaction in question. It 
said it was the transaction itself that caused the block to happen, rather than Ms M being 
abroad. 
Halifax accepted its service could've been better when Ms M called to remove the block on 
her return to the UK. It paid £150 in recognition of this, and £130 to cover the cost of Ms M's 
international phone calls. 
Ms M remained unhappy. She considered Halifax should cover the cost of the items she'd 
wanted to buy while she was overseas.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didn't consider 
Halifax had acted unreasonably when it blocked Ms M's card. She was also satisfied that the 
compensation it had paid was fair.
Ms M didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms M has suffered an injury which has made it more difficult for her to organise 
her finances before she travels overseas. I'm sympathetic to the position Ms M is in, and 
have kept her circumstances in mind in reviewing her complaint.
Ms M says she told Halifax on several occasions that she would be travelling abroad, and 
that the bank told her it no longer needed to be notified of this information. So Ms M 
considers it was unfair for the bank to block her card when it knew she would be overseas.
But Halifax has explained that it wasn't the fact that Ms M was abroad that created the block. 
The nature of the transaction itself meant it would've been blocked - whether or not Ms M 
was abroad.The basis on which Halifax identifies possible fraudulent transactions is a matter for the 
bank, and not something that I can interfere with. So I'm not persuaded that Halifax did 
anything wrong when it blocked the transaction Ms M was trying to complete. And I can't ask 
the bank to prevent future blocks on Ms M's card, even if she tells it that she will be travelling 
abroad.
Ms M says she didn't know about the block because there was a cap on her mobile phone 
usage while she was abroad. By the time she found out what had happened, she had 
difficulty contacting Halifax. She tried to call the mobile number that Halifax used to contact 
her, but couldn't get through. She says she tried other Halifax numbers, and concluded she 
would need to contact the bank during UK office hours. This was difficult for Ms M because 
she was in a different time zone.
Ms M considers Halifax should contact customers by a different method while they are 
overseas so that she wouldn't miss its messages. I can see why Ms M might take that view. 
But again, it is beyond the remit of this service to tell Halifax what systems to use to 
contact customers. So I can't ask the bank the change the way it notifies customers of 
potential fraud as Ms M would like.
Ms M also considers a land line number should be available for Halifax's fraud office 24 
hours a day, 365 days a year. But I understand this is already the case. I don't think I can 
safely say that Halifax was at fault because Ms M wasn't able to successfully contact its 
fraud office at a time that was convenient to her. 
When Ms M spoke to Halifax's fraud team it offered to unblock the card. But Ms M said that if 
she did this, the transaction she'd been trying to make might complete successfully. Ms M 
wanted to avoid this because she was returning to the UK before the item in question would 
be delivered. 
The Halifax adviser suggested Ms M should contact the retailer to stop the transaction. But 
Ms M didn't have time to do this before she left for the UK. The block remained on Ms M's 
card to prevent the transaction completing. But it meant she couldn't use the card to pay for 
other items either.
I appreciate this was inconvenient for Ms M. But as I've already said, I'm not persuaded that 
Halifax did anything wrong when it blocked the card. And I don't consider it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Halifax responsible for the fact that Ms M's circumstances meant 
it couldn't be unblocked before she returned to the UK. So I won't be asking Halifax to cover 
the cost of the items Ms M wanted to pay for with her card.
Halifax accepts that its customer service could've been better when Ms M called to lift the 
block on her return to the UK. It's paid £150 in recognition of this, which I think is fair.
Ms M says she was told she could reverse phone calls to Halifax from overseas, but this 
wasn't possible. But the bank has paid £130 to cover the cost of her international calls, 
which I also think is fair in the circumstances. 
Ms M has mentioned continuing problems she's having with Halifax. But I understand some 
of these have occurred since Ms M brought her original complaint to this service. So I can't 
make any findings about them in this final decision. Ms M may want to consider making a 
separate complaint to Halifax about the issues she is experiencing. If she's unhappy with the 
bank's response she may then be able to refer the matter to this service for further 
consideration. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman