DRN-4090453
The complaint
Mr A complains that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) mishandled his claim on a breakdown 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2022, Mr A was living in the UK. He had a van made by a large vehicle maker in about 
2015. Mr A had the van covered on a breakdown policy that included cover for driving in 
Europe. RAC was the insurer responsible for dealing with any claim.
In June 2022, Mr A was working abroad with the van containing work clothing and 
equipment. 
Unfortunately in mid-June 2022, the van broke down in a European city. Mr A called for help 
under the policy.
Much of the complaint is about the acts or omissions of RACs European service providers. 
As I hold RAC responsible for such acts or omissions, I may refer to them as acts or 
omissions of RAC.
RAC took the van to an independent garage. After it became clear that the van wouldnt be 
fixed that day, Mr A asked RAC for help to get home. He took a taxi to a hotel for the night. 
RAC paid for the taxi and contributed towards the hotel. 
The next day Mr A missed the taxi RAC had sent to the hotel to take him to the airport. So 
he ended up paying €38.00 for another taxi. He flew back to the UK  paid for by RAC. Mr A 
left work clothes and equipment in the van. 
Mr A sent RAC an email dated 21 June 2022. RAC treated it as a complaint.
On about 22 June 2022, the garage gave an initial diagnosis on the van at a cost of €30.50. 
The garage quoted over €2,000.00 for repairs. Mr A declined that quote. The garage applied 
storage charges.
By a final response dated early July 2022, RAC partly upheld the complaint insofar as it 
related to the missed taxi.
Mr A first contacted us in mid-July 2022. 
In August 2022, Mr A paid RAC about £2,500.00 towards the cost to repatriate the van.
In early September 2022, Mr A completed a complaint form.
In late September 2022, Mr A got the van back.
After we began to investigate, RAC acknowledged the delay in getting the vehicle repatriated 
and made an offer of £150.00 plus the cost of the initial diagnosis €30.50. 
The investigator thought that RAC had made an offer that would be fair and reasonable 
considering the circumstances. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The garages quote was open- ended with no figure for total repair. This led to the 
consequent delays & storage charges.
At no point did the case move forward without him having to make a series of 
frustrating and stressful phone calls to a call centre, talking to a different person with 
no knowledge of the case each time. It took months before being granted access to 
an email address and a case handler that could deal with the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Section F. European Motoring Assistance
Assistance includes cover for European Motoring Assistance.
Limits of cover
The cover under Section F is subject to an aggregate overall limit of £2,500 per call-
out and 3 call-outs per policy year, limited to 1 call-out per journey
Section F2: Roadside assistance in Europe
Covered
If the vehicle breaks down or is involved in a road traffic collision in Europe during a 
journey, the RAC will send help to either:
1. Repair the vehicle at the roadside. This could be a permanent or temporary repair; 
or
2. If the RAC are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, the RAC will:
a) recover the vehicle and passengers to a local garage for fault diagnosis on the 
vehicle;
b) pay for the initial fault diagnosis to find the next course of action;
c) contribute towards the garage labour charges up to £150 when the vehicle can be 
repaired on the same day
Section F4: Getting your vehicle home
Covered
If the RAC attend a breakdown or is involved in a road traffic collision in Europe 
under Section F2 and the vehicle cannot be repaired before the drivers planned
return to the UK, the RAC will arrange and pay for:
1. Recovery of the vehicle to a single destination of the drivers choice within the UK; 
and
2. Storage charges for the vehicle whilst awaiting the vehicle to be returned to the 
UK
Important
Following authorisation by the RAC, it can take up to 14 working days for the vehicle 
to be delivered back to the UK. At busy times and from some countries it may take 
longer.The policy also covered additional accommodation up to £30.00 per person per day.
In my view, the breakdown and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr A some 
distress and inconvenience including the need to make telephone calls.
From what each of them has said, RAC was unable to repair Mr As van at the roadside. I 
cant say that RAC did anything wrong by taking the van to a local garage not franchised by 
the vehicle maker.
From what the garage later diagnosed, I find that RAC was unable to repair Mr As van on 
the same day as the breakdown. So the policy didnt cover any contribution towards the cost 
of repair.
I dont hold RAC responsible for Mr As decision to leave belongings in the van rather than to 
take them with him. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RAC to compensate him for 
the cost of replacement or additional items.
Its unfortunate that Mr A got in the wrong taxi at the hotel. But  notwithstanding its final 
response  I cant say that RAC did anything so wrong that it would be fair and reasonable 
that it should reimburse that taxi fare. 
I cant hold RAC responsible for the amount of the garages repair quote or for the fact that it 
covered the particulate filter but didnt cover the oil leak. So I dont hold RAC responsible for 
the delays caused by Mr As rejection of the quote.
I accept Mr As statement that he found RAC difficult to communicate with. I accept that he 
found the process stressful.
Mr A opted for repatriation of the unrepaired van. He was reluctant to contribute to the cost 
of repatriation. So I dont consider that RAC was responsible for the delay until about 9 
August 2022 when Mr A paid the excess of about £2,500.00. 
I accept that Mr A was without the van (and its contents) for the remainder of the summer of 
2022. But it was a large vehicle that had broken down at a busy time a long way from the 
UK. The policy terms didnt promise that it would be repatriated within 14 days as a 
maximum. 
The delay until late September 2022 was surprising  even to RAC. But theres not enough 
evidence for me to say what wouldve been a reasonable time for repatriation  or how much 
longer than a reasonable time the repatriation took.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RAC to compensate Mr A for the months of 
road tax and van insurance when he didnt have the van.
RAC has given us details of its total costs including the recovery, taxi, hotel, flight and 
repatriation. Keeping in mind the aggregate policy limit of £2,500.00, I dont find that RAC 
treated Mr A unfairly by asking him to pay the excess of about £2,500.00.
Putting things right
Through us, RAC has offered to pay Mr A the following sums:
1. cost of the initial diagnosis €30.50; and 2. £150.00 compensation for repatriation delay.
Ive thought about directing RAC to pay interest on the sum of €30.50. But its not clear when 
Mr A paid that sum and became out of pocket. In any event, the amount of interest would be 
small. So I wont direct RAC to add interest.
Ive identified some shortcomings in RACs communication as well as the delay in 
repatriation. I dont under-estimate the extra distress and inconvenience this caused Mr A at  
an already difficult time for him. That included having to make extra calls and send extra 
emails. 
Ive thought about how much I wouldve directed RAC to pay if it hadnt made that offer. 
Overall, Im satisfied that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the extra distress 
and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct RAC Insurance Limited to pay Mr A:
1. €30.50 for the cost of the initial diagnosis; and 
2. £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman