DRN-4322426
The complaint
Mr L complains about credit granted to him by Startline Motor Finance Limited.
What happened
Startline agreed credit for Mr L in October 2021 to finance a car. The cash price of the car
was £7,410. Mr L paid a deposit of £750 and borrowed £6,660. The total amount owed
under the agreement came to £10,963 including the deposit, interest and fees. This was to
be repaid in 59 instalments of £170.05 and a final payment of £180.05.
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement. This meant Startline remained the
owner of the car until the credit was repaid. Mr L made his first two repayments but his third,
in January 2022, was returned unpaid. He paid a lump sum by card in February to clear his
arrears but missed his next three payments. Mr L then paid a lump sum in May but
continued to have his direct debits returned unpaid. This pattern continued until March 2023
when Startline repossessed the car and sold it.
Mr L said that Startline shouldnt have entered into the credit agreement with him in the first
instance because it wasnt affordable for him - he struggled to meet his monthly payments
and got into debt in order to do so. Mr L said that Startline didnt offer him any support when
he said he was having financial difficulties. Mr L also said that Startline didnt treat him fairly
by terminating the agreement and repossessing the car because he was only a month in
arrears when this happened. In addition, Startline recovered the car late at night and didnt
give him a chance to retrieve his belongings which he later had to collect at his expense.
Startline didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it assessed Mr Ls creditworthiness before
lending to him and gave proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of
affordability. Its assessment didnt raise any concerns and Startline disagreed that it made
an irresponsible lending decision. Startline also said that it had terminated the agreement
and repossessed the car in line with the agreement terms and conditions and had correctly
reported the status of the account to the credit reference agencies.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator
looked into things and found that the credit had been irresponsibly agreed. They
recommended that Mr Ls complaint be upheld and that Startline refunds everything he paid
under the agreement, minus a portion of these payments to cover his usage of the car. They
also recommended that Startline removes any adverse information relating to the agreement
from Mr Ls credit file.
Startline didnt agree with this recommendation. It asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2023 
explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I shared the information Id relied on 
with both parties and set out my proposals for putting things right for him. Mr L accepted my 
provisional decision and Ive had no response from Startline. 
Mr L had also complained to Startline that it paid sales commission to the dealership that
sold him the car, which disadvantaged him. This particular issue is the subject of another
complaint with us under a difference case reference and did not form part of my investigation 
or determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having no new information to consider, I remain of the 
view that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Ill set out my reasons why again in this final 
decision.
As Id said in my provisional decision, the Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator 
when Startline lent to Mr L. Its rules and guidance said that before agreeing credit for him, it 
needed to check that he could afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The assessment needed to be proportionate both to the nature of the credit 
(the type of credit, amount or term, for example) and to Mr Ls particular circumstances.
Ultimately, Startline needed to treat Mr L fairly and take full account of his interests when
making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers with
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness,
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Startline complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls application to satisfy itself that he would be
able to make his repayments without undue difficulty? If not, what would reasonable and
proportionate checks have shown? Would this information have led to the credit being
declined? Ultimately, did Startline make a fair lending decision? Did it treat Mr L unfairly in
any other way, for example when he explained his financial difficulties or when it terminated
the agreement?
What happened prior to the agreement?
Startline said that Mr L had been in receipt of a stable income with no evidence of financial
difficulty when it agreed to lend to him. It recorded his net monthly income initially as £2,372
and checked a recent payslip. Mr Ls payslip from September 2021 confirmed his gross
salary as £37,931 however Startline said it took into account employer deductions and used
a net monthly income figure of £1,973 in its assessment. Ive looked at the payslip Startline
used in its assessment. It shows that Mr L was repaying two loans  a student loan and a
loan from his employer. It seems the latter was a loan to help with housing and had 
repayments of £208 a month.
Startline said it checked Mr Ls credit file and provided us with a summary list of his accounts
though not a full credit report. Startline said that Mr L had a good history of repayment on his
hire purchase agreements and a well maintained credit card and current account. Startline
also said that at the time of application Mr L had another finance agreement with it with 
monthly repayments of around £137. It said that this agreement was being well maintained
which demonstrated that Mr L could afford to and was willing to meet his repayments for this
new agreement. Ive noted that the summary list also shows that Mr L had just taken out a
loan of over £5,000 in August with monthly repayments of £292.
Startline acknowledged that there were arrears showing on Mr Ls credit profile relating to
other hire purchase agreements but said that at the point of application, these had reported
no missed payments for ten months. The arrears were historic with payments having beenbrought up to date and accounts settled. This demonstrated both the ability and willingness
of Mr L to maintain finance at these levels. Startline also mentioned that Mr L put down a
deposit of £750 which further demonstrated the affordability of the agreement for him.
Mr L provided a copy of his credit file which shows his payment history for his accounts. The
previous agreement with Startline referred to above is shown as beginning and ending in
August 2021. Startline confirmed that this previous agreement was unwound before entering
into the new agreement in October. I have no further details of this previous agreement but,
given how long it lasted, I dont think any conclusions can be drawn from it regarding the
affordability of a new agreement for Mr L.
The credit file also shows that Mr L had two recently settled hire purchase agreements. One
is shown as being in arrears for most of 2020 and then settled in September 2021. The other
is shown as being six payments in arrears in early 2020 with an unclassified code recorded
from then until the account was settled in August 2021. Again, I dont think this information
demonstrates that Mr L was managing these commitments without difficulty. I appreciate that
the accounts were settled, but only very recently and after Mr L had taken out a relatively
large new loan.
Startline said that nothing in the information it had raised concern that Mr Ls finances were
strained. It said that it supplemented the information it had about his income and current
financial commitments with modelled data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to
estimate his expenditure. I havent been provided with this estimate but Startline said that
there was sufficient affordability after the estimated expenditure was taken into account.
Startline concluded that it undertook reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr L would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable fashion.
I think its fair to say that such checks might constitute a proportionate assessment in other
cases. However, I think Startline should have considered that a more rigorous assessment
would be more appropriate in Mr Ls case. I dont think Startline could reasonably assume
that he managed to maintain his previous hire purchase agreements without difficulty based
on the information it had. Agreeing this finance would commit Mr L to spending over a third
of his wages (of £2,372) on repaying his debts and he would need to meet his repayments
under this agreement for five years. The consequences of not being able to do this were
potentially serious in that he could be left with no access to a car and a large balance to
clear. So Im afraid I dont agree that the checks Startline carried out were proportionate on
this occasion.
What would a proportionate check have shown?
Mr L told us that he struggled to meet his repayments with a previous hire purchase
agreement (the agreement showing as unclassified). I understand that a court-ordered
agreement was put in place in 2020 and Mr L said that the vehicle was voluntarily
surrendered in August 2021. Mr L also told us that he used some of the money from his
August loan to pay the car deposit and provided his bank statements from around the time.
Im not suggesting that this is the information Startline should have gathered but I think its 
reasonable to rely on the statements to form an understanding of what proportionate checks
would likely have revealed. I can see from the statements that some of Mr Ls usual monthly 
expenditure came to over £1,800 including rent of over £1,400, bank fees, tv, telephone and 
internet bills and insurance. This minimum doesnt include other likely costs such as food 
and petrol, utilities, clothing etc or his existing debt repayments. Its clear that Mr L wasnt 
going to be able to meet his repayments for this credit without difficulty. I think its likely 
Startline would have learnt this and declined to lend to him, had it looked into his circumstances further. Ive concluded that it was irresponsible to have entered into this 
agreement.
What happened after the agreement began?
As mentioned above, Mr L had problems meeting his repayments almost from the beginning.
He changed jobs towards the end of 2022 and had a period of unemployment before starting
a new job in January 2023. Mr L said that Startline didnt offer him any forbearance when he
explained his situation, such as a payment holiday or reduced payments.
Ive looked into what happened. As mentioned, Mr Ls direct debits were being returned
unpaid and he made several catch-up payments by card over the course of the agreement.
Startline provided call recordings of conversations it had with Mr L in autumn 2022 and into
2023. In mid-October Mr L told Startline that he was between jobs. The options offered to
Mr L when he explained his situation were to pay the arrears or settle the agreement either
by termination, or selling or part-exchanging the car. Mr L made a card payment then which
initially left him in credit but short around £23 when he didnt make his end of October
payment. Startline issued a notice of default letter to him when he subsequently missed his
November payment.
On 31 December 2022 Mr L spoke with Startline and it was agreed he could catch up with
his October shortfall and his November and December payments when he received his first
pay on 18 January 2023. Startline terminated the agreement in early January, despite this
arrangement. It told Mr L on a call on 10 January that as the agreement had been terminated
he needed to keep up with his payments or the car would be repossessed.
On 18 January Mr L cleared most of his arrears but was around £58 short. Startline agreed
that Mr L could make up this shortfall with his next payment due on 31 January. Mr L didnt
meet this payment and he also missed his February payment. Startline repossessed the car
on 9 March.
I dont know why Mr L missed his payments in January and February 2023. He told us that 
his arrangement was to pay on the 17th of each month going forwards. Maybe this is why he 
felt hed only missed one payment (for February) when the car was repossessed in early
March. 
In any case, Mr L didnt make any payment in February (either on the 17th or at the
end of the month as in the agreement) and he also had an amount outstanding from his
January payment. In conclusion, I dont think Startline acted outside its terms and conditions
in defaulting and terminating Mr Ls agreement and repossessing the car.
However, I cant say that Startline treated Mr L with forbearance and due consideration here.
While it had agreed that Mr L could catch up with his payments in January, it continued its
termination and recovery process. I dont know whether the eventual outcome would have 
been any different had Startline, for example, offered Mr L a payment holiday or reduced 
payments for a time, bearing in mind his pattern of missing payments. Mr L didnt meet his 
January or February payments and I think its likely the agreement would have been 
terminated at this point if it was still ongoing. 
In summary, I havent found that Startline got something wrong when it terminated the 
agreement and repossessed the car, but I have found that it was irresponsible to have 
entered into the agreement with Mr L in the first place. Ive explained below what Startline 
needs to do to redress the impact of this error.Putting things right
The cash price of the car was £7,410 and Mr L borrowed £6,660. I understand that Mr L had
repaid over £2,500 towards the agreement in addition to his deposit of £750 before the car
was repossessed.
Putting Mr L back into the position he would have been in had Startline not agreed to the
credit would begin with returning all his payments. However, Mr L has had the use of the car
from October 2021 to early March 2023, some 17 months, and hes driven it 14,050 miles
(based on the mileage in the order form and on the sales invoice). I think its fair that
Mr L pays something for that use. Afterall, Startline remained the owner of the car and Mr L
would likely have had to pay to stay mobile if he hadnt had the use of the car over that time.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge should be. In deciding
whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the
agreement and Mr Ls usage of the car, for example. I think it would be fair in this case for
Startline to retain £100 a month for each month Mr L had the car as a usage charge.
Mr L told us that he has been unable to source another vehicle since the termination 
because his credit file shows outstanding car finance. Mr L explained that hes classed as an
essential car user by his employer in his new job. He said that hes had no option but to hire
a car as and when required in order to continue in his job. He told us that hes borrowed from
friends and family and fallen behind on priority bills in order to be able to pay for the car hire.
Mr L wishes to have these car hire payments refunded to him.
Let me say at this point that I fully appreciate what Mr L has told us about the distress and
inconvenience this matter has caused him and I am sorry to hear things have been so
difficult for him. Ive found that Startline shouldnt have entered into the agreement with him
because it was foreseeable that Mr L would have difficulty meeting his repayments. Startline
needs to put that right. However, it wasnt foreseeable that this irresponsible lending decision
would have an increased impact on Mr L due to his job change and so I cant fairly ask
Startline to pay for Mr Ls car hire after the agreement was terminated.
I have taken into account what Mr L said about the emotional impact of his experience when
considering what needs to happen now to put things right for him. Mr L experienced the
distress and inconvenience of losing access to the car. There isnt a specific calculation for
awards to compensate for the emotional impact of errors. We have an approach which Ive
borne in mind alongside everything else when making this decision. As set out on our
website, an award of over £300 and up to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake
has caused considerable upset and worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra
effort to sort out, typically over weeks or months. I think an award in this range would be
appropriate here.
In summary, Startline should now:
Refund Mr Ls deposit of £750, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
Calculate how much Mr L repaid in total (in addition to his deposit) and deduct 
£1,700 for fair usage;
Refund any payments Mr L has made above this amount, along with 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the 
agreement and report it as settled;Pay Mr L an amount of £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Ls complaint about Startline Motor
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman