DRN-3962698
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1992.
What happened
Mrs W was sold PPI at the same time as taking out the card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA France disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA France needed to ensure that the policy was presented as optional. Looking at the card 
application form, there is a separate section for PPI where a box needed to be completed if 
you do not want to take out PPI. In other words, you had to opt out of taking it rather than 
opting in. I agree with our adjudicator that I dont think this would have been made 
sufficiently clear to Mrs W. Furthermore, the PPI section is crossed through, which 
additionally would have given the impression that the policy had not been selected.
Usually I would go on to consider other aspects of the sale, such as whether Mrs W was 
given enough information to make an informed choice about buying the policy. However, in 
this instance, Im satisfied that the failure to make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice 
about buying the policy is enough in itself for me to uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
AXA France should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI:
A. AXA France should find out how much Mrs W wouldve owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA France should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed 
her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs W made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, AXA France can take off what she got for the claim from the 
amount it owes her.
B. AXA France should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W wouldve 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA France works out what Mrs W wouldve owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs W wouldve owed AXA France something on her store card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D. AXA France should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require AXA France IARD to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman