DRN-2876164
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) wont remove an exclusion from her pet 
insurance policy which she believes to be unfair. 
What happened
In 2017 Miss L adopted a cat and took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz. Based on the 
medical declaration she provided at the time, and Allianzs underwriting guide, they agreed 
to provide a policy with two non-reviewable exclusions. They say:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Ear Disorders from 13/12/17
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Skin Disorders from 13/12/17
Miss L renewed the policy each year, and in 2020 she made a claim. Allianz initially declined 
the claim as they said it related to the ear disorder exclusion and it was therefore not 
covered. However, following a further review, they changed their decision and paid the claim 
in full. They also offered Miss L £100 compensation to say sorry for the trouble and upset 
they caused her.
Miss L asked our service to consider the complaint despite the above, as she said the ear 
exclusion should never have been added to the policy in the first place. Shes explained that 
while her cat did have a skin allergy condition before the policy was taken out, it didnt have 
any problems in relation to its ears. So, to resolve the complaint she feels Allianz should 
remove the unfair exclusion from the policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she said Allianz had acted fairly by adding 
the exclusion. And Miss L could reasonably have declined to take out or renew the policy if 
she wasnt happy with its terms. 
Miss L didnt agree. So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Insurers will usually ask about existing conditions when offering a pet insurance 
policy. If the consumer discloses something, the insurer can add exclusions for that 
condition and other, similar conditions. They do this to help them assess the risks 
associated with offering a policy. To make sure they treat all their customers fairly, 
they will only add an exclusion if it complies with their underwriting guide.           
Insurers also include terms and conditions in their policy wording which explain that 
they may add exclusions of this nature. This approach is industry wide, so I dont 
think Allianz have done anything unusual or unfair, by following it in relation to     
Miss Ls policy.
The medical declaration completed by Miss L when the policy was taken out, reflects 
the fact Miss Ls cat had unfortunately previously suffered with a skin allergy 
condition. So, Im satisfied Allianz acted reasonably by taking this into consideration, 
before deciding the cover they were prepared to provide. 
I would like to stress that Allianz havent said they believe Miss Ls cat previously 
suffered from an ear disorder, so there is no dispute in relation to this. However, that 
doesnt mean they have acted unfairly by applying an exclusion in relation to this 
condition. Allianz is entitled to make a commercial decision about what conditions 
they are prepared to insure. Pet insurance policies will generally exclude anything 
which is already in existence at the time of taking out the policy. But they may add 
exclusions for other conditions, if they think there is an additional risk of a claim being 
raised about that condition. This appears to be what has happened here, as Allianz 
added the ear disorder exclusion, based on Miss Ls cats medical history and the 
higher level of risk they associated with that condition.
If an insurer wishes to exclude something, I cant interfere with that decision provided 
it complies with their underwriting guide. Allianzs underwriting guide (like every other 
pet insurers underwriting guide) lists most ( if not all) of the potential health issues 
pets can suffer from and lists how they want to deal with each one. I appreciate this 
will disappoint Miss L but having reviewed the relevant part of Allianzs underwriting 
guide, Im satisfied it includes skin allergy conditions, and Allianz therefore acted 
fairly by adding the two exclusions to her policy that they did. 
When the policy was set up Allianz had a responsibility to make sure Miss L had 
been provided with enough information in good time, so she could make an informed 
decision about the details proposed. This includes the policy terms, including its main 
benefits and exclusions. Im satisfied Allianz fulfilled this requirement, as the above 
policy exclusions are clearly stated in the certificate of insurance. As such, I dont 
think Allianz reasonably needed to do anything more to highlight the cover they were 
prepared to provide. I also note Miss L was reminded of the exclusions each time her 
policy was renewed.
Finally, based on the timescales involved and everything Ive considered, Im 
satisfied Allianz acted fairly by offering Miss L £100 compensation to say sorry for the 
delay in settling her claim. This is in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied Allianz Insurance Plc acted fairly by adding an 
ear disorder exclusion to Miss Ls policy. But they should pay her the £100 compensation 
theyve offered her  if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman