DRN-2706558
The complaint
Miss L says she was told by National Westminster Bank Plc that once she put a new product 
in place for her mortgage that the monthly payments would include her payments towards 
her arrears, rather than her still needing to make a payment on top towards the arrears.
Shes also unhappy that:
NatWest cant find a copy of the call where she says she was told that, 
there is no note of the call on its systems, and 
NatWest didnt contact her about the arrears after the rate change.
What happened
Miss L was in arrears on her mortgage and she had an arrangement set up to make 
payments on top of her normal contractual mortgage payments to repay them.
Miss Ls existing fixed rate was due to end on 31 March 2020, and so in February 2020 
Miss L applied to move the mortgage onto a new fixed rate product to take effect when the 
previous rate ended. The rate change application was carried out over the phone, and a 
variation agreement was emailed to Miss L on 7 February. Her signed acceptance to the 
variation agreement was logged on NatWests systems on 28 February.
Miss L says there was a call in April 2020 in which she was told her new payment included 
repaying her arrears each month, so she just paid the contractual monthly mortgage 
payments.
In August 2020 Miss L complained to NatWest, saying shed been told her arrears were 
included in the new agreement so she didnt need to make any additional payments. 
NatWest said it was unable to locate the conversation in question, but that it had no reason 
to dispute that it took place as Miss L said. It apologised for that. It also explained that it 
hadnt contacted Miss L about the arrears once the change happened on 1 April 2020 due to 
Covid-19, as it wasnt taking certain actions on customers accounts. It said as Miss Ls 
account was reviewed manually it could have done more to contact her, but also pointed out 
that Miss L had said in March that she intended to discuss a repayment plan with NatWest 
once the new rate had been confirmed.
It apologised for everything that had happened, and sent her a cheque for £100 to apologise. 
It also paid £35 to the mortgage account to cover any additional interest incurred on the 
arrears since April 2020, and amended Miss Ls credit file to show her mortgage as in an 
arrangement to pay between April and August 2020.
Finally, it said if Miss L could show she was in a position to clear the arrears in full in that 
period had she known about them, and now did clear them, then it would amend her credit 
file for that period to show her mortgage as being up to date. If Miss L was unable to repay 
the arrears in full it said she needed to set up a formal repayment plan, otherwise normal 
collections activities would resume.
Our investigator looked at things. He said that whilst the call Miss L had mentioned couldnt 
be located, he had listened to another call and in that Miss L was told she would need to pay 
extra towards the arrears, and another call note from about a week earlier indicated shed 
been told the same then. Based on that he felt NatWests response to the complaint was fair 
and so didnt recommend anything further be done.
Miss L said she wanted her complaint looked into again as she felt NatWest had treated her 
unfairly, and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Miss L indicated her representative may send some more information to us, but despite 
waiting for this (since March 2021, and past the 5 April deadline the representative set 
themselves to respond by) weve not received anything further. I cant keep complaints on 
hold indefinitely, and so Im issuing this decision without waiting any longer.
Whilst it is unfortunate theres no record of the call Miss L has said took place in April 2020, 
the underlying matter that shes complained about  that is, whether or not her arrears were 
included in the variation agreement she signed in February 2020  doesnt turn on that. 
Although Miss L says she was told in that call that they were, that was after shed already 
signed the agreement and entered into the variation contract.
More important were the calls in February 2020, before she entered into the contract as 
those are the ones she would have relied upon to make her decision.
Having considered the notes, and listened to the calls, Im satisfied Miss L was made aware 
the new contractual monthly payment of £459 didnt include anything towards the arrears. 
On 19 February Miss L spoke to NatWest. I havent produced an exact transcript of the call, 
but some keys things that were said are:
Miss L: I want to talk about the amount  for me to pay if I accept this offer  £459.28. 
Right now, as you know, Im paying the £548 off the mortgage arrears So I 
want to know how will I arrange for the arrears to continue to be, cos I need to 
pay them off. Could I get a summary of what would be on top of the £459.28.
NatWest: If youve gone to a fixed rate where the payments have reduced, you continue to 
make the payments of £548.61. It just means its clearing a lot more off the 
arrears.
Miss L: Would I be able to pay less on that, because obviously thats gone down?... 
When I go to the fixed rate although itll be £459, whats the additional amount 
Im looking to I need to talk to the mortgage adviser lady who I actually said to 
her could you help me with the arrears? and she said no Id have to speak to 
yourselves, to someone in this part of the NatWest. So are you saying that even 
though Im getting the fixed rate Ill still have to pay the What additionally would 
I be paying?Miss L: My payments would be, obviously without the mortgage arrears, it would be £459 
just without the arrears. And obviously I know Ive got to continue to pay them 
off. But if I can get the payment lowered thats what Id like to do
NatWest:If youre obviously hoping to pay the £24.15 on top of the £459.28 which is what 
Im assuming youre asking is possible.
Miss L:Well Im just seeing if I can pay it a bit lower or to get it a little bit lower 
considering that when it comes to March/April I would have done what Id been 
asked to do with the plan, which was set for that. And because Ive helped 
myself by trying to get this fixed rate
Miss L:I just wanted to know from yourselves what would the arrears be
NatWest:How much youd be paying towards the arrears?
Miss L:Yeah, to see if it could be lowered
NatWest:How much would you be looking at paying roughly?
Miss L:Im just seeing if I could pay a little less I was just looking to see if I could 
maybe take maybe £10 or £15 off the £24.15 which was additional to the 
£524
NatWest:In total how much would you be looking to pay?
Miss L:I dont know, Im just thinking. I just need to know from yourselves what would 
be acceptable and what would be not acceptable. 
It seems, from this call, that Miss L was aware before she entered into the contract that she 
would need to pay extra towards her arrears, on top of the quoted £459 a month. I cant 
know what happened after that, but even if Miss L was given incorrect information  in that 
she was told that payment included an amount towards her arrears  that would be what we 
call a mis-representation.
When were looking at complaints about mis-representations we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Miss L would have been told again what she had 
already been told; that is, that she had to pay extra on top of the £459 towards her arrears. 
Miss L could never have been in the position where she only needed to pay £459. 
NatWest corrected the mistake when it dealt with this complaint as it paid a sum to the 
mortgage account to cover any additional interest that had been incurred on the arrears 
between April and August 2020, and it also amended Miss Ls credit reference file to show 
that she was in an arrangement to pay for those months. It also told Miss L that shed need 
to put a new arrangement in place going forward and paid her £100 compensation.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to fine or punish a business, and our 
awards arent punitive. We look at each complaint individually and ensure  if something has 
gone wrong  a consumer has been put back in the position they would have been in if that 
error hadnt occurred. Miss L could never have been in a position where she didnt have to 
pay extra towards her arrears, where she didnt need to work with NatWest to get a new 
payment plan in place, or where her credit file didnt show her as being in an arrangement to pay. NatWest made an offer in its response to this complaint to put Miss L back in the 
position, at that point, she would have been in and so theres nothing further for me to order 
NatWest to do.
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the 
impact of a businesss actions on the consumer, and how the business handled things once 
it was notified of an issue. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made in other 
similar cases. I think NatWest handled things well as it had no evidence that the call Miss L 
said took place in April 2020 actually happened. But rather than disputing that, it took Miss L 
at her word that the call happened, apologised for not having a record of it, dealt with the 
complaint based on what Miss L says she was told and paid £100 compensation. 
That was fair of the business as it could simply have rejected the complaint saying there was 
no record of the call, and unless Miss L provided phone records to show when she spoke to 
the business then nothing further could be done. Thats not to say I disbelieve Miss L either, 
I simply mention this to show how the complaint might have been handled to explain why Im 
satisfied that what NatWest has already done to put things right is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied National Westminster Bank Plc had 
already made a fair offer to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman