DRN-1919530
The complaint
Mr W has complained Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, wouldnt sort out his 
complaint that hed never taken out a loan with them in January 2019.  
What happened
Mr W received a letter from Savvy in January 2019 confirming theyd set up a direct debit to 
collect regular payments for a loan hed taken out. This quoted an account with a bank (Ill 
call H). Mr W didnt bank with H and quickly discovered an account had been taken out in his 
name. Money from different loans had been taken out and paid into this account.
Mr W got most of the companies whose loans hed supposedly taken out to accept hed 
been a victim of ID fraud. Savvy didnt accept this despite Mr W sending them evidence from 
H about the account. They wanted a report from the police confirming what had happened. 
Mr W had explained this wasnt going to happen as the police had told him it wouldnt be 
investigating this fraud.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator could quickly see Savvy had accepted a loan application from a Mr W at the 
same address as Mr Ws. However practically all the other personal details differed, 
including employment and NI number. Based on this she told Savvy she was more than 
likely to uphold the complaint. Savvy said as long as Mr W was able to provide a copy of the 
Action Fraud report confirming the issue, theyd write off the loan.
Mr W immediately provided the report to our service and this was shared with Savvy. Savvy 
confirmed theyd write off the loan and remove all data from Mr Ws credit record relating to 
this. This was done on 3 April 2020.
Our investigator asked Savvy to pay Mr W £250 in compensation for the distress this had 
caused him. Savvy werent prepared to do this. They argued Mr W had ignored their 
requests to provide additional information to enable them to consider his request. They 
asked an ombudsman to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome overall as our investigator, although I have 
increased the compensation payable. Ill explain why.
The main question for me to review here is whether Savvy should pay Mr W compensation 
for not sorting out his complaint about ID theft earlier than they did. And whether this added 
to Mr Ws distress and concern over being a victim of ID theft and the consequences.
Im aware that Savvy has accepted Mr W didnt apply for the loan on 15 January 2019. 
Theyve cancelled the agreement and written off the debt. Theyve also amended Mr Ws 
credit record to ensure this loan no longer shows.
I would just add that this is very much the only thing Savvy could do. Its clear to me from the 
evidence provided by Mr W  who it should be noted did a lot of the legwork himself in trying 
to clear this up  that he didnt take out the loan. I also believe this should have been clear to 
Savvy as well.
Its not my role to tell a business what systems and processes it should have in place to 
identify complaints about fraud. However I have to note that in this case, I cant see Savvys 
processes were designed to assist the victim. There is a requirement on them to make sure 
they can deal with victims of fraud effectively and fairly. I appreciate it can sometimes be 
tricky to differentiate between genuine victims and those people who may have taken out 
loans and no longer wish to pay. And financial institutions need to have time to carry out 
their proper investigations.
However Mr W contacted them in January 2019 and felt he had no option but to bring his 
complaint to our service in October: nine months later. Savvy by this stage seems to have 
ignored what Mr W was telling them that there would be no police investigation.
Our investigator detailed in her views of 13 April and 26 May 2020 the steps Mr W went 
through and the correspondence he had with Savvy in his attempt to get them to stop asking 
him to pay for a debt that wasnt his. I dont feel the need to repeat these, other than to 
confirm Ive read the detailed 29-page set of contact notes provided to us by Savvy along 
with their robust response to the first view on 29 April 2020.
Savvy told us they were only waiting for Mr W to provide them with a report from Action 
Fraud but I cant see them ever asking him for this. He provided them with a reference from 
Action Fraud right from the start. He also provided them with other information. He confirmed 
that he was unable to provide a police report. Id expect Savvys processes to be flexible 
enough to cope with the difficulty of providing a police report when in many cases its known 
the police are unlikely to investigate.
Savvy has told us they contacted Mr W on numerous occasions without him getting back to 
them. I dont believe this can be the case. Theyve not provided us with evidence they were 
contacting him using his email or mobile contact. I suspect they may well have been 
attempting to contact the person whod made the fraudulent application.
It was nearly 15 months after Mr W first complained to Savvy that they accepted the loan 
wasnt his. This seems to have taken an unnecessarily long time and I will be asking Savvy 
to compensate Mr W for this.
Putting things right
Ive decided the fair and reasonable compensation to pay Mr W is £400. This is slightly 
higher than the redress our investigator recommended. I say this because Ive reviewed 
Mr Ws testimony about the impact this had on him. 
I appreciate that its not Savvys fault that Mr W was a victim of ID fraud in the first place but 
knowing that he had been, I feel their response was inadequate. Their delays added to his 
distress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk to Pay Mr W £400 for the distress caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman