DRN-4331814
The complaint
Mr M complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (Transunion) have been
reporting incorrect information on his credit file for the last six years.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. I intended to come to a different 
outcome to the Investigator, and because of this I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my final decision on 
the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision:
Mr M says that he went to apply for two separate loans and he was told by these lenders
that it would be unlikely he would be accepted for the loans due to information on his credit
file.
As a result of this, Mr M requested a copy of his credit report and found that Transunion had
linked other names and addresses to his credit file. He says this meant that they were
reporting negative information on his credit file that didnt relate to him.
Mr M complained to Transunion, who agreed this had happened due to a matching error with
their system. Mr M says it took Transunion around four months to put the information right.
And he is still now having credit searches applied to his credit file that dont relate to him.
Transunion asked Mr M to provide evidence of any losses he had incurred as a result of the
information being reported on his credit file. But Mr M hasnt done this.
Mr M complained to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about the data being
reported about him. The ICO upheld Mr Ms complaint  and said they would get in touch
with TransUnion.
Our Investigator requested evidence from Transunion on a number of occasions however it
didnt provide this. The Investigator then upheld Mr Ms complaint and awarded £100
compensation.
Transunion agreed to pay the £100, however, Mr M didnt think this was enough  especially
given that the issue hadnt yet been resolved and there was still information that didnt relate
to him being reported on his credit file.
Tranunsion said that the most recent search, that Mr M referred to wasnt its fault and this
was down to how the data provider was recording the information. And so, Mr M should get
in touch with the data provider.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my intention to uphold this complaint.
Its disappointing to see that despite numerous requests to Transunion for their business file,
they havent to date sent us anything to help this service look at what happened and why it
happened.
I note that Transunion has agreed the information being reported on Mr Ms credit file was as
a result of its systems incorrectly linking him to other people. It hasnt sent me evidence to
persuade me that it has resolved the matter in a timely manner, nor has it sent me any
evidence that persuades me the issue isnt ongoing.
Mr M says hes lost out by having to spend money obtaining credit reports. Hes said he was
told he wouldnt be accepted for a number of loans because of the incorrect information on
his credit file. And hes spent considerable time trying to resolve the issue, that doesnt
appear to have been resolved.
Given the lack of information from Transunion, its difficult for me to be able to agree with it
that the most recent issue with the credit search is down to something the data provider has
done wrong  especially when I consider that the search that was completed is in the name
of the alias Transunion said it had removed. I know Transunion has said that this is a new
issue that it hasnt had the chance to investigate. But in my view, this currently appears to be
a continuation of the same issue.
I accept its possible that Mr M might have been declined for credit based on information on
his credit file. But I also havent seen enough persuasive evidence from Mr M to satisfy me
that the only reason he was declined for credit was because of the information TransUnion
was reporting about him.
I understand that Mr M would like £1,000 compensation for every year the incorrect
information has been reported about him. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I wont be asking
TransUnion to compensate this much. When deciding on a distress and inconvenience
award I have taken into account the impact this has had on Mr M alongside our general
approach to awards of this nature  more information about this can be found on our
website.
To put things right for Mr M, I currently think Transunion should:
Remove links with third parties from Mr Ms credit file, including the most recent
search
If the search isnt as a result of its error, then it needs to dispute this with the data 
provider
Pay Mr M £350 for distress and inconvenience.
TransUnion didnt respond to the provisional decision by the deadline, so Ive assumed it has 
nothing further to add.
Mr M responded and provided evidence of the alias currently showing on his credit file. He 
also said that when he applied for credit, he was told that he was unlikely to be accepted due 
information showing on his credit file.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I will still be upholding Mr Ms complaint, for the same 
reasons as outlined in my provisional decision. 
Id like to thank Mr M for providing the evidence he has done. I took this into account when 
coming to my provisional decision, and so my direction for Transunion to put things right by 
either removing the link with the third-party or disputing this with the data provider remains.
I have also taken into account Mr Ms comments in relation to being previously declined for 
credit due to information showing on his credit file. I though thought about this carefully, 
however, I havent been provided with any evidence to support what Mr M has said. And so 
Im not persuaded that the information showing on Mr Ms credit file was the only reason he 
was declined for credit.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, I order Transunion to:
Remove links with third parties from Mr Ms credit file, including the most recent
Search; or
If the search isnt as a result of its error, then it needs to dispute this with the data 
provider
Pay Mr M £350 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order TRANSUNION 
INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman