DRN-2763470
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the customer service and delays caused by U K Insurance Limited 
(Direct Line) when she requested proof of no claims on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T purchased a car insurance policy with Direct Line to start from August 2019. She had 
let them know she hadnt made any claims in 18 years. Direct Line wrote to Mrs T at the time 
to confirm theyd got her proof of no claims for her no claims discount (NCD) and that there 
was nothing she needed to do.
In July 2020, Mrs T asked Direct Line for proof of her no claims to provide it to her new 
insurer. Direct Line sent her evidence of only nine years of no claims. But she was expecting 
Direct Line to confirm she hadnt made any claims in 19 years. 
When Mrs T queried this, she was told to send an email asking for proof of the correct 
number of no claim years, after the policy had expired in August 2020. She was also asked 
to include evidence of her previous NCD. But despite doing so, Mrs T hadnt received a 
response, so she raised a complaint. 
Direct Line issued their final response letter (FRL). They explained the maximum NCD 
provided by their system was nine years. So, when Mrs T asked for proof, she was given 
evidence of nine years NCD. They accepted that Mrs T had to make numerous requests and 
sent her a cheque for £25 as a way of apology. They also gave Mrs T a letter confirming her 
NCD entitlement of 19 years.
Mrs T was unhappy as she felt the compensation offered of £25 was insufficient. She asked 
Direct Line to reconsider and increase the compensation amount. In summary she said: 
Direct Line told her at the start, that theyd got proof of her NCD and she didnt need 
to do anything more. 
The confirmation she received at the time said she had NCD of nine years or more, 
but she wasnt told this meant shed only receive nine years NCD.
She said she didnt have knowledge of Direct Lines systems providing a maximum 
NCD of nine years.
She thinks its unsatisfactory to have had to ask for her proof of no claims three times 
and wait over 40 days to receive it. 
Direct Line made mistakes in their final response letter including the date of her 
policy and they said shed provided proof of her NCD prior to taking out her policy 
with them.
Direct Line apologised for the errors in their letter and offered Mrs T an additional £25 
compensation for the upset it caused. They reiterated their position explaining theyd given 
Mrs T nine years NCD as this was confirmed when she took out the policy. They also said 
their website doesnt allow customers to add the actual number of years of no claims and the 
maximum discount provided is for nine years or more. 
Mrs T said Direct Line still hadnt addressed her concerns and felt that it was unsatisfactory 
for her to have gone through four stages to receive proof of her NCD. She asked Direct Line 
to answer her specific questions and reconsider the compensation offered.
Direct Line told Mrs T theyd addressed her concerns and their decision remains unchanged. 
Mrs T remained unhappy with this and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that Direct Line couldve made it clearer to Mrs T at the time of taking 
out the policy that the maximum NCD they provide was nine years. But he felt this didnt 
make a difference to the outcome as the proof of actual NCD was later provided to Mrs T. 
He accepted there was a delay but felt the apology and compensation Direct Line offered of 
£50 in total was reasonable as the impact on Mrs T was minimal.
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary she 
said:
She doesnt think £50 is enough compensation and believes it should be at least £75. 
She disagrees that Direct Line not making it clear that the maximum NCD they 
offered didnt make a difference. She explained she had to take four steps to receive 
her proof of NCD:
oApply for proof of NCD through the My account sections of the Direct Line 
website.
oCall Direct Line to receive an email address to request for proof of NCD for 
more than nine years.
oSend the email to Direct Line to request proof of NCD along with evidence of 
previous NCD.
oSpend time making a complaint.
She also feels she shouldve been told at the outset to email Direct Line to request 
proof of NCD for more than nine years, which wouldve prevented her wasting time.
She believes this can be easily fixed by Direct Line making small amendments to 
their website.
She said she had good reason to worry about receiving the proof of NCD in time as 
there usually is a strict time limit to provide this information to the new insurer.
She says she was constantly worrying about not being able to provide her new 
insurer with proof of her no claims history. 
She feels the offer made by Direct Line of £50 was for specific reasons  £25 as an 
apology and £25 for the upset caused by the mistakes in the FRL. So, she doesnt 
think its fair to consider the compensation amount on a backdated blanket basis.
She believes we should consider the delays in receiving the correct NCD and that 
she had to request it numerous times. But also, the shock, distress and worry it 
caused her as well as the errors in the FRL in compensating her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I recognise the 
strength of Mrs Ts feelings, and I know this outcome will be disappointing to her. So, Ill 
explain why.
Mrs T has raised a number of points. I want to assure her that Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent to us. But I dont intend to respond to every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail shed like. Instead, Ill only concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because I havent taken it on board or thought about it, but simply because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Direct Line have explained that the maximum NCD they allow is nine years. And unless 
evidence of additional years is provided, they only verify nine years of NCD with previous 
insurers.
While Direct Line is entitled to set a maximum amount of NCD they take into account and 
verify, Id still expect them to explain this to Mrs T at the outset and provide proof of her 
actual no claims at the end of the policy year.
Ive looked at the documents sent to Mrs T at the point of policy inception. It states Mrs T 
has nine or more years of NCD. But I dont think this is enough to make Mrs T aware that 
this was the maximum NCD they provided and anything additional wouldnt be considered. 
The policy document also explains Direct Line had successfully obtained proof of her NCD 
from Mrs Ts previous insurer and there was nothing further for her to provide. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mrs T to believe that Direct Line had confirmed her NCD with 
her previous insurer which at the time was 18 years. 
I think Direct Line couldve been clearer that the maximum NCD they provided was nine 
years  even if additional years had been built up. Also, that the proof of NCD theyd 
obtained from Mrs Ts previous insurer was for up to nine years. 
Ive carefully thought about how Direct Line should put things right here. When deciding 
whether to award compensation, I must be satisfied that the impact of the business actions 
or inactions have been greater than just minor inconvenience or upset. 
I know Mrs Ts request was simple which couldve been resolved without any issues. But 
dealing with people, businesses and organisations isnt always completely hassle free. 
Were all inconvenienced at times and just because mistakes have been made, it doesnt 
necessarily mean that the consumer should be compensated. 
Sometimes, an apology and a small monetary award is a fair way to put things right. In this 
case, I dont think any further compensation is warranted for the reasons Ive explained 
below.
I can understand why Mrs T wouldve been surprised and confused to initially receive 
confirmation of only nine years NCD. It was only after speaking to Direct Line, Mrs T was 
made aware that shed need to wait until the policy had expired to request for the proof of 
NCD and to do so shed also need to email proof of her previous NCD. 
But that said, since Direct Line only provide a maximum of nine years NCD, Mrs T wouldve 
always had to email them proof of her previous NCD  so this wasnt an additional step she 
had to take.
Mrs T emailed proof of her previous NCD to Direct Line shortly after the policy ended on 9 
August 2020. She was provided with proof of NCD on 26 August 2020, following her 
complaint on 25 August 2020. I appreciate Mrs T says it took 40 days to receive proof of her NCD. But to ensure she had 
evidence of NCD for the whole policy year, she wouldve always had to wait for her policy to 
expire before requesting proof.  
And while I think it wouldve been useful for Mrs T to have received proof sooner, I dont 
think it was a significant delay. I say this because Direct Line took around three weeks to 
respond to Mrs T after she emailed them proof of her previous NCD. 
I dont doubt Mrs T when she says she was worried about providing the proof of NCD to her 
new insurer in time. But in this particular instance, her new insurer didnt require this proof, 
so it didnt affect her new policy.
I accept the errors within the final response letter wouldve been frustrating for Mrs T. I can 
understand why this may have made Mrs T feel like her complaint wasnt taken seriously. 
Direct Line acknowledged that Mrs T had to request for proof numerous times and gave her 
£25 as a way of apology. They also apologised for the upset caused by the errors within the 
final response letter and offered her an additional £25 compensation.
Although Direct Line have given specific reasons for the compensation theyve offered, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable for me to award Mrs T compensation for each error made 
by them. I say this because our role isnt to penalise businesses. And we dont make awards 
for the mistakes themselves but instead any award is to recognise the impact on the 
consumer. 
Having holistically taken everything into account, I accept Mrs T has been caused some 
unnecessary worry and inconvenience. But I dont think the impact on her is significant 
enough to award further compensation.
Im satisfied the apology and compensation offered already of £50 in total is fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mrs T in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was 
caused. I understand Mrs T has already received £25 compensation. So, Direct Line should 
pay Mrs T an additional £25 compensation, if they havent done so already.
I know Mrs T feels very strongly about her complaint, but I think Direct Line have already 
done enough to fairly resolve it. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay 
Mrs T £50 compensation in total, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman