DRN-2305679
The complaint
Mr W complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) did not follow his instructions to 
purchase shares at a limit price and that he suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr W had an execution only share dealing account with ATS. On 13 April 2020, Mr W placed 
a limit order to invest £20,000 shares in a stock which I will call Company A. Mr W set a limit 
to this instruction of 11.10p.
13 April 2020 was a bank holiday and the market was shut for trading on that day. On the 
next available day for trading, Mr Ws instruction was picked up by ATSs system and the 
trade was attempted. Due to the size of the trade, ATS say that they could not fulfil Mr Ws 
limit order instruction.
Mr W called ATS later that morning to ask why his purchase had not been processed as he 
said that he saw other trades go though at the limit price that he had set. ATS replied saying 
that due to the size of the order, his instruction to invest £20,000 equated to around 189,000 
shares and was given on an all or nothing basis. This meant that they could not process it 
in part or split the order. ATS said that they had acted in accordance with their terms and 
conditions and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with ATSs response, Mr W referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. Our investigator agreed with ATS and did not think 
they had done anything wrong and rejected Mr Ws complaint. Unhappy with the 
investigators view, Mr W has asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I dont think that ATS have done anything wrong and they 
have acted in accordance with their terms and conditions of service. I realise that Mr W feels 
strongly that they are in breach of these terms and FCA rules and I will explain how I have 
reached this decision.
Mr W placed his limit order on a bank holiday when the market was shut. ATS picked up Mr 
Ws order on the next available trading day which was 14 April at 8.18am. Mr Ws purchase 
instruction had a limit price of 11.10p. This means that Mr W did not wish to pay more than 
11.10p per share.
When the instruction was presented to the market at 8.38am, the system would have 
calculated that an invest order of £20,000 of shares in Company A would have equated to 
around 189,000 shares. ATS have said that due to the size of the order, it was not possible 
to trade all 189,000 shares at 11.1op at the same time. ATS have said that as the order was 
all or nothing, it could not be split and could not be filled.
Mr W says that he could see trades going through at his price of 11.10p from 8am  9.07am 
and his instruction should have been successful and his shares purchased at that price.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the service and the following clauses are 
relevant:
Restrictions On The Online Dealing Service
65. Price quotes are provided by our market counterparties and are based on a maximum 
size of order available electronically at that time. If you wish to either:
(a) deal in the relevant security above the quoted size; or
(b) place three or more purchase orders or three or more sale orders in the same
security within a 30 minute period, then you must call us in advance to discuss. This can 
only be done if we specifically agree in advance and we may not be able to agree to do this 
for both practical and regulatory reasons.
This clause says that the order will be subject to the maximum size available electronically at 
the time of execution. In other words, if the order size is to big to be dealt automatically as 
the counterparty cannot match the number of shares and price then it will not be fulfilled.
In his submission to the service, Mr W says that this clause is not relevant to his order as it 
only concerns at market orders, I disagree. There is nothing in the clause that refers to the 
type of order  only that price quotes are provided by our market counterparties and are 
based on a maximum size of order available electronically at that time.
I acknowledge that Mr W may have seen trades go through at his limit price of 11.10p for a 
period of time after the market opened but these were below the number of shares that he 
was attempting to buy and that I believe is the key issue  the online electronic size available 
was below his anticipated 189,000 shares and his order was placed as an all or nothing 
order  it either had to be completed in one transaction or it failed.
Counterparties need to consider various market risks when they are offering quotes and they 
have electronic orders sizes in place so that they can manage these risks. These are 
commercial decisions that counterparties take and the service cannot comment on individual 
business practices. As the counterparty has set the parameters for online trading and ATSs 
systems have been unable to trade at the limit price and level requested by Mr W, I dont 
think that ATS have done anything wrong.
I understand that Mr W feels strongly that clause 65 within the terms have no relevance but I 
am not persuaded by his arguments that they do not relate to his specific limit instruction.
Mr W also says that the FCA rules on Client Order Handling and Limit Orders meant that 
ATS should have been able to execute his instruction by making his order public. I have 
reviewed these rules and the Order Execution Policy which ATS have made available to 
clients and this says:
7. Limit Orders and Market Orders 
Where we accept an order to buy or sell an investment at a particular price for a specified 
size (a limit order), it may not always be possible to execute the trade immediately under market conditions at that time. Where you place a limit order that is not immediately 
executed, we will not make public your unexecuted limit order unless we believe it is in your 
interests to do so, or you expressly request otherwise. By agreeing to this Order Execution 
Policy you agree that we may make your orders public where we consider it to be in your 
best interests.
This clause within the ATS Order Execution Policy states how they will handle unexecuted 
limit orders and they say that they will not make these limits public. By using the service, Mr 
W has accepted these terms and this policy. I dont think that ATS has done anything wrong 
and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mr W also complains that ATS did not attempt to execute his transaction in a timely manner. 
I have reviewed the timings of the order and I think that ATS observed reasonable standards 
of timing when dealing with his instruction on the first available day after the market was 
closed. There is nothing to suggest that the online electronic order size would have been 
different had the instruction being presented for execution earlier and I think that on the 
balance of probability, the same size parameters would have been present at market 
opening. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman