DRN-2732315
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with how TSB Bank plc handled her failed credit card application, which 
meant that she missed out on their interest free balance transfer offer.
What happened
Miss T held a credit card account with another provider. It had an interest free balance 
outstanding which was due to expire on 29 September 2020. So, she searched for another 
interest free offer to transfer the outstanding balance to.
Miss T made an on-line application for a TSB credit card on 7 April 2020. TSBs offer 
included 30 months interest free on balance transfers made within 90 days of completing the 
application. Her application was approved with a limit of £2,600, but she wasnt able to 
complete it due to a TSB system problem.
Miss T didnt receive any further communication from TSB, so she made a further 
application, under the same offer, on 1 May 2020. Her application was approved with a lower 
limit of £1,500. This amount wasnt enough to cover her existing card balance, so she didnt 
complete and accept the offer.
On 7 May 2020, Miss T called TSB to discuss the problems experienced with her application 
and to make a complaint.
TSB responded to Miss Ts complaint in writing on 1 July 2020. They apologised for the 
problems shed experienced and paid compensation of £75. They said that her previous 
applications had expired. They asked her to make another application and then contact their 
Credit Card Team who would make the amendments to reflect the offer. They also provided 
a contact telephone number. They said that theyd ensured that Miss Ts credit file had been 
amended due to the previous checks made.
Miss T called TSB on 18 July 2020 for confirmation that her credit file had been amended 
before she made the new application. TSB agreed to call her back with confirmation.
Miss T called TSB again on 24 September 2020 to discuss a new application and the 
amendments required to ensure she had the same deal previously offered. She was told that 
they couldnt amend any new application. 
So, Miss T called TSBs complaints team about this. She believed that TSBs searches still 
appeared on her credit history and wanted them removing first. TSB agreed to investigate 
and call her back. They also agreed to provide Miss T with a named contact on the Credit 
Card Team to complete the necessary amendments.
Miss T chased TSB by telephone on at least three occasions. When she didnt receive a 
response, she decided to refer her complaint to this service. Her complaint has been looked 
at by one of our investigators. They thought that TSB didnt need to do anything more here. 
So, Miss T asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Having reviewed Miss Ts complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 18 March 2021 giving both Miss T and 
TSB the opportunity to respond to my findings, before I issued a final decision.
In this decision I said:
The initial issue appears to stem from problems with TSBs credit card application systems. 
Mrs T said that when she attempted to finalise her first application and accept the terms and 
conditions, her screen became unresponsive and went blank. TSB have provided a copy of 
Miss Ts application details in their system. This shows that the application had been 
evaluated and approved with a maximum limit of £2,600.
TSB have also provided a copy of Miss Ts second application from 1 May 2020. This shows 
that the application had been evaluated and approved with a limit of £1,500.
TSB said. in their letter of 1 July 2020, that the problem Miss T experienced was due to a 
known issue that they were aware of. They said that they were working on a fix for this 
issue. They suggested that Miss T could make a further application and told her theyd 
amended her credit file. They also paid £75 for any distress and inconvenience. I think this 
response is both fair and proportionate reflecting the problems that Miss T experienced with 
her application.
Miss T called TSB again on 13 July 2020. She wanted to clarify what she needed to do. She 
also wanted confirmation that her credit file had been amended before she applied again. 
TSB agreed to chase this up and call her back. TSBs file notes show that their agent then 
emailed the complaint case handler with this request and a contact number for Miss T.
There are no other TSB file notes until 24 September 2020. So, I cant see anything to 
confirm that the TSB complaint handler called Miss T back before then.
 
TSB have said that Miss T didnt make a third credit card application, despite their 
suggestion in their complaint response letter of 1 July 2020. Although I agree that this is the 
case, it appears that this was because Miss T was still waiting for their response to her 
questions of 13 July 2020. So, I can understand why Miss T wouldve been reluctant to 
complete a further application.
I have listened to two call recordings from 24 September 2020.
 
The first call was made by Miss T to TSBs Card Services. She explained about her 
complaint and what TSB had suggested she do in their letter of 1 July 2020. The agent said 
that they werent able to amend any applications and said that the telephone number 
provided to her was just their helpline. The agent suggested that she contact the complaint 
handler again.
TSBs file notes confirm that Miss T then called to speak to the case handler on the same 
day. TSB said that they would pass a message on for the case handler to call Miss T back. 
The second call recording is of that call back.
 
Miss T explained that there was still a search outstanding on her credit history. The case 
handler tells her that this is a soft search which wouldnt affect her adversely. He agrees to 
check whether this can be removed for her. Miss T also explains what she was told by TSB 
Card Services earlier. The case handler agrees to call her back with a named contact on the 
credit card team who would be able to make any necessary amendments to a new credit 
card application. I can find no record that the complaint handler called Miss T back.TSBs call notes show that Miss T called TSB again on 1 October 2020 asking for the 
complaint handler to call her back. She also called on 7 October and asked for a call back, 
this time requesting a different case handler. On 13 October, Miss T called again to chase 
up on this complaint. I have seen no evidence to confirm that a case handler called Miss T 
back following the call of 24 September 2020. So, it is not unreasonable to conclude that 
Miss T didnt receive any confirmation regarding the soft search or was provided with a 
named contact in the TSB credit card team to deal with her application. Despite the case 
handler agreeing to do so and despite Miss Ts follow up calls.
 
I can understand how this would be very frustrating. Particularly when she knew that her 
existing interest free credit card deal expired on 29 September 2020.
So, taking all of this into account, I think that TSB should have done more here. It is 
disappointing that Miss T was left with concerns. Further, that TSB failed to call her back 
when they said that they would. So, I can understand why she would be reluctant to proceed 
with a further TSB application.
Miss T has now secured a further interest free balance transfer offer with another provider. 
But the impact of these delays has meant that she has incurred interest charges in respect 
of her previously expired interest free deal. These charges total £50.14. The highest balance 
owed, against which interest was calculated, was £1,778.64. This is within the £2,600 limit 
agreed in Miss Ts first application.
TSB said that they feel its more likely than not the maximum limit we offered would have 
been £1,500. The original limit offered in Miss Ts first application was £2,600. TSB have 
said that there were differences in the application details that Miss T provided for each of her 
applications. I have seen both applications and agree that there are some differences in the 
information. But it appears that, on balance, the only reason that Miss Ts first application 
wasnt completed was due to TSBs system problems at the time. TSBs information 
ultimately confirms that the £2,600 limit had been agreed.
Furthermore, if TSB felt that they wouldnt be able to provide a high enough limit for Miss Ts 
purposes, they shouldve told her. She could then have explored offers from alternative 
providers.
The issues that Miss T experienced during her original application were unfortunate. TSB 
have addressed this within their complaint response of 1 July 2020, and I think that the 
compensation paid was fair. But it seems that there were continued delays following Miss Ts 
complaint. There is evidence that her calls werent returned, despite assurances. TSB also 
didnt respond to Miss Ts questions. As a consequence, Miss Ts existing interest free deal 
expired, and she incurred additional interest costs that Im satisfied she wouldnt have 
otherwise incurred had TSB dealt with this differently. I think she had clearly tried to take 
steps to avoid this.
So, I said that I believed that TSB needed to do more here. I said I would be asking them to 
cover the interest costs incurred by Miss T. I also believed that it would be fair to reflect the 
additional distress and inconvenience caused to Miss T by her calls not being returned as 
agreed.
Miss T responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that she has nothing further to 
add.
In their response, TSB have said (in summary) that they believe that Miss T shouldve made 
a further application to them sooner in order to benefit from the interest free balance transfer 
offer available. They also say that she was made aware, in September 2020, that the soft search had no impact on her file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont disagree that Miss T couldve made an earlier application. But, in the individual 
circumstances here, I can see why she didnt. I dont think its fair to assume that Miss T fully 
understood and appreciated the different kinds of searches recorded with the credit 
reference agencies.
 
I accept that TSBs complaint handler told Miss T that the soft search had no impact on her 
credit file. But he also agreed to see whether this could be removed. As previously 
mentioned, there is no evidence that the case hander called Miss T back to confirm this or 
provide details of a named contact as he had previously offered. So, I still think Miss T acted 
reasonably in the circumstances here.
TSB have also said that Miss T eventually arranged a new promotional rate on her existing 
card. They believe that because Miss T knew she would soon be incurring interest costs, its 
reasonable to think that she wouldve arranged this immediately and not incur those costs. 
So, they dont believe that they should be responsible for these. 
But Miss T was still chasing for TSBs complaint handler to call her back, as agreed. So, I 
think its reasonable to conclude that she still fully intended to reapply to TSB given what 
shes said and done here. Her approach to her current card provider appears to have been 
instigated after TSB failed to respond for some time.
In summary, I believe that the original problems with TSBs systems, followed by the failure 
of their complaint handler to return to Miss T, ultimately led to her incurring interest costs that 
could have otherwise most likely been prevented. So, my decision here will remain the 
same. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint.
I require TSB Bank plc to:
reimburse all interest costs incurred by her in respect of the card account balance 
that was to be transferred - totaling £50.14.
pay further compensation to Miss T of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman