DRN-2546648
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way in which Moneybarn handled his account.  
What happened
 In January 2015 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for 42 months with monthly repayments of £253.07. 
In December 2015 Mr B advised Moneybarn that he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Moneybarn asked Mr B to complete an income and expenditure form and determined that he 
could only pay £90.56 per month. A payment plan was agreed.
The payment plan failed and Moneybarn advised Mr B to seek independent debt advice. Mr 
B did this, and sent an updated budget which showed that he had very little disposable 
income.
Moneybarn advised Mr B of his exit options but he declined these so the account was 
defaulted.
Following the issue of the default notice, Mr B told Moneybarn that he was waiting for a large 
payment from a  third party, which he expected to receive before the expiry of the default 
notice. Moneybarn re-offered the exit options but Mr B didnt take these up.
The arrears on the account werent cleared so Moneybarn terminated the agreement and 
arranged to collect the car. 
Some time later, in June 2018, Moneybarn wrote to Mr B and said it was refunding 
£2,681.74 because it hadnt offered him the cheapest option to exit the agreement.
Mr B wasnt happy with the way his account had been handled and brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked at how Moneybarn had handled things  and said that in some 
respects it couldve handled things better. She recommended that Moneybarn pay 
compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B.
Mr B agreed but Moneybarn didnt respond so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at how Moneybarn handled the account to see whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
The investigator has provided a very detailed record of all of Mr Bs communications with 
Moneybarn. Im not going to go into that level of detail here, but Ill focus on whether I think 
Moneybarn acted fairly and whether it couldve handled things differently.
Ive looked at how Moneybarn responded when Mr B advised it that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Id expect a business to respond positively and sympathetically in these 
circumstances. Moneybarn checked Mr Bs income and expenditure and set up a payment 
plan, which is what Id expect them to do. They also wrote to Mr B advising him about the 
arrears on his account and sent him some texts about this as well. I understand that Mr B 
found this distressing, but I dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong here because its 
obliged to make sure that a customer is aware of arrears on the account.
Ive looked at the payment plan itself. Mr B agreed a plan of £90.58 per month, but I can see 
he didnt manage to keep to it. Moneybarn sent missed payment messages as a result. 
Although I think Moneybarn acted fairly in offering a payment plan, its not clear why it 
thought Mr B could make payments at this level and clear his arrears as well. I dont think, 
based on his income and expenditure details, he was in a position to do this. Its not even 
clear that Mr B was aware that he was expected to clear his arrears as well as make 
payments under the payment plan. I think Moneybarn shouldve done more here to make 
sure that the payment plan was affordable for Mr B and that he understood what was 
expected of him.
Later, when Mr B sent Money barn an updated budget, I can see that Moneybarn advised 
him that it wouldnt accept less than £80 per month, even though the budget showed that Mr 
B couldnt afford to pay this. I dont think Moneybarn acted fairly here, as it was clear that Mr 
Bs financial circumstances were such that he couldnt afford £80 per month. 
Ive thought about whether Moneybarn acted fairly in defaulting the account. Im satisfied 
that the account was more than 3 months in arrears and based on the ICO guidelines, I dont 
think Moneybarn did anything wrong here. Although Mr B had told Moneybarn he was 
expecting a large payment, this had already been delayed several times, so I dont think 
Moneybarn acted unreasonably in defaulting the account.
I understand that Mr B is disappointed that Moneybarn defaulted the account and collected 
the car whilst he was expecting the large payment. But on balance, I think Moneybarn waited 
a reasonable time for the large payment, and I dont think it acted unfairly by terminating the 
agreement and collecting the car. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Moneybarn 
to put off collecting the car indefinitely  on Mr Bs own admission, the funds he was 
expecting had by then been delayed several times.  
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, and although I understand that Mr B would have found it 
distressing to receive letters and texts about the arrears, I dont think  Moneybarn has acted 
unfairly. But in relation to the payment plans, I think Moneybarn could have handled things 
better. Its clear that this has had an impact on Mr B and I think compensation should be 
paid.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn Limited must pay compensation 
of £200 to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman