DRN-1761830
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a loan online in May 2000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a loan in May 2000. The loan was taken in joint 
names but the PPI only covered Mrs M. When it started, they paid £17.18 each month for 
the policy. And it provided a monthly benefit of £210.50 in the event of a successful claim. 
This wouldve covered Mrs M for up to 12 months if she lost her job, or 24 months if she 
wasnt working because of sickness or an accident. The policy was cancelled when the loan 
was repaid in March 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because:
Im satisfied Nationwide made Mr and Mrs M aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it. Ive seen copies of the internet screens that Nationwide used 
at the time and I can see that customers were given a choice about PPI. They could choose 
Yes or No and both options were equally prominent.
Moreover the loan agreement that was sent to them after their application also described the 
PPI as optional credit insurance, and I can see that Mr and Mrs M signed this agreement.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right or suitable for them. Mr and Mrs M completed their online loan application and chose to 
take PPI without any involvement from Nationwide. But Nationwide still had to give them 
enough information about it so that they could decide themselves whether or not they 
wanted it. 
I know Mr and Mrs M have said that they had a good level of savings and Mrs M had 
discretionary sick pay  from her employer. And with this in mind I can see why, with 
hindsight, they might feel that the policy wasnt good value for them. But it doesnt look as 
though they bought the PPI because Nationwide gave them the wrong information about it. 
The loan application form clearly states that the policy covers involuntary unemployment, 
accident, and sickness. So in this instance Im not persuaded that Nationwide did something wrong that led to Mr and Mrs M buying something without knowing what it was.
I can also see that the cost of the policy was shown clearly on the loan agreement. And Ive 
noted that when they completed their online loan application, they wouldve been presented 
with the costs of the loan, with and without PPI. So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
understood how much they would be paying each month for it when they took out the loan 
and chose to purchase PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs M 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things  she told us she was employed 
and in good health. So I dont think better information about it wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs 
M from buying it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M have said. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman