DRN-3621357
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly placed restrictions on his investment 
accounts that have prevented him trading. He says the restrictions caused him a loss as he 
couldnt trade or make fund switches when the market was moving.  
What happened
In August 2020, Mr A made a request to withdraw £10,000 from his General Investment 
Account (GIA). The request was processed, and the funds were credited to the receiving 
bank. 
In October 2021, HSBC contacted Mr A about a problem it had identified with the withdrawal 
he made the previous year. Mr A asked for the details to be put in writing. On 8 October 
2021, HSBC wrote to him explaining that while the money had been transferred to his 
nominated receiving bank, the funds hadnt been debited from his investment. It said Mr A 
needed to repay the funds and gave him a deadline to do this. It said restrictions would be 
placed on two of his accounts until the funds were repaid. 
Mr A contacted HSBC and raised concerns about the restrictions on his accounts. He didnt 
accept that HSBC was entitled to do this and said he was being penalised for its mistakes.  
HSBC responded. In summary it said:
The terms and conditions allow it to prevent Mr A from using his accounts when there 
is money owed as a result of any payment mistake by him or HSBC.
It required Mr A to give an instruction as to which account he would like to repay the
£10,000 from to remove the trading restrictions. And it is within its rights to deduct the 
amount owed from Mr As ISA account  but given the tax efficient treatment of ISA 
accounts, it wanted to give him the opportunity to repay the £10,000 from another 
source.
It made a payment of £250 in compensation into Mr As bank account to 
acknowledge its mistake and to say sorry for any inconvenience caused.
Mr A continued to correspondence with HSBC and express his dissatisfaction with the 
situation. On 1 November 2021, he gave an instruction to take the money from the 
uninvested cash in his ISA account. He said if this was done at the outset, it would not have 
necessitated restriction on his trading accounts. 
Following this Mr A referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary she said:
Although HSBC failed to debit £10,000 from Mr As account, it would be 
unreasonable for him to retain the funds due to the error.
HSBCs terms and conditions state it is entitled to deduct funds owed to it. 
She didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC to restrict the service it provided to Mr 
A, until it reached a repayment agreement, or a refund of the money owed.
She didnt think the losses incurred on Mr As investment portfolio have been as a 
result of HSBCs actions
HSBCs offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators conclusion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate Mr A feels HSBC acted unfairly in its decision to place restrictions on his 
accounts when the need for him to repay funds stemmed from HSBCs error in processing 
the October 2020 withdrawal.
I note Mr A says when the withdrawal was originally processed, he was unaware that the 
funds had been credited to the receiving bank. While I havent seen clear evidence regarding 
this, I also note in making his complaint Mr A hasnt indicated the money wasnt received 
either  which I would have expected him to raise when he was being asked to make 
repayment. 
From the information provided, Im satisfied that HSBC has made a genuine error in not fully 
completing the withdrawal transaction. Ive considered the actions taken by HSBC after it 
discovered the error. Firstly, I think it was reasonable to attempt to recover the funds. Mr A 
also appears to accept he cant benefit from HSBCs mistakes. But he feels the placement of 
restrictions wasnt fair and has caused him financial loss. So, Ive concentrated by findings 
on this point. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions HSBC has provided as relevant to Mr As account. It 
has pointed to the following term to justify its actions regarding the restrictions: 
In addition to any other rights we may have, weve the right to deduct an amount from your 
General Investment Account and/or ISA Account necessary to reduce or repay any amounts 
which are due from you on the General Investment Account and/or ISA Account which have 
not already been paid by you (such as charges, fees or expenses payable by you to us 
under the Terms). This includes any amount owed to us as a result of any mistaken 
overpayment by us to you. This could involve selling any Fund Shares that we may choose 
or deducting money from any future income. We may also prevent you from using your 
General Investment Account and/or ISA Account while we take these actions, if this is a 
reasonable and proportionate response. These may include any outstanding tax liabilities or 
charges.
HSBC says it was able to apply this term to the circumstances of what happened with Mr As 
account. While the term doesnt cover the exact situation, it does cover the broader scenario 
of a customer owing money. I note there is an example given of when a customer owes 
money to HSBC as a result of a mistaken overpayment. While not exactly an overpayment, I 
accept the situation here is similar. In my view it was reasonable for HSBC to rely on this 
term. So, it follows that it may prevent the use of the account in the situation where it 
considers it to be a reasonable and proportionate response. 
HSBC did place restrictions shortly after informing Mr A of the outstanding amount owed and 
gave him a deadline to make payment. I can appreciate why Mr A felt this was heavy handed considering the situation came about because of HSBCs mistake. But I can see that 
HSBC engaged with Mr A and responded quickly to his queries. So, I am satisfied it was 
trying to rectify the situation both in terms of obtaining repayment and removing the 
restrictions. I also note HSBC gave Mr A different options for repayment. I appreciate he 
disagrees with the viability of some of these, but Im satisfied it was a genuine attempt on 
HSBCs part to resolve things quickly. I also note that HSBC was trying to allow Mr A to 
provide funds from a source alternative to those in his ISA, as this would protect the tax 
status of this money. This was also a reasonable thing to do. 
On 1 November 2021, Mr A gave an instruction to take the funds from his ISA and HSBC 
took the payment. HSBC wrote to him and confirmed the restrictions were lifted the same 
day. This is something that it seems could have happened when the matter was first raised 
with Mr A. Looking at the evidence, I havent found HSBC were responsible for preventing 
this happening sooner. Im satisfied it was clear from the outset, and in later correspondence 
that HSBC could accept any funds that were transferred to the investment account to clear 
the debt. 
So, in summary, I dont find that HSBC treated Mr A unfairly or exhibited insufficient regard 
for his interests. Im of the view that it made reasonable attempts to resolve the matter with 
him. It is unfortunate that the payment that was agreed from the ISA didnt happen sooner, 
but I havent found that this was a result of failings by HSBC. It follows, as Ive found that 
HSBC has acted in a reasonable manner and fairly applied the terms of the account, I dont 
agree it is responsible for the financial losses Mr A claims. 
But it is clear that Mr A has been caused upset by the situation and hassle. Im satisfied that 
this impact is as a result of the original error HSBC made in not processing the withdrawal 
correctly in October 2020. I particularly recognise the emotional impact of the restrictions put 
in place when Mr A felt they were unwarranted, and he has been put to trouble to get things 
sorted. So, I agree that HSBC needs to compensate him. I understand HSBC has paid Mr A 
£250 in compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. I 
consider this offer to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what I 
would award had it not be made. For this reason, I dont required HSBC to pay any further 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman