DRN-3166400
The complaint
Ms K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined part of her 
claim on her home insurance.  
What happened
Ms K had a home insurance policy with RSA. In January 2018 she made a claim under the 
subsidence cover after noticing cracks at her home. RSA accepted the claim and repairs 
were carried out. 
However on completion of the repairs in 2020 Ms K felt RSA hadnt repaired all the damage. 
She said there was still damage in the hallway and lounge that hadnt been addressed. She 
also said that RSA had replace paving slabs in her garden for the main patio and one path. 
However the second path in the garden hadnt been replaced and was now a different 
colour, she thought RSA should replace this too so it matched. 
A complaint was made to RSA which it didnt uphold. It said its surveyor had said the 
damage to the hallway and lounge was too remote from the cause so wasnt subsidence 
related. However it did offer to re-inspect the damage to confirm this position. It also said the 
policy doesnt provide cover for items that havent been damaged by an insured peril, so it 
wouldnt pay for the second path to be re-tiled. 
Ms K wasnt happy with this response and asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought RSA had acted fairly 
by declining the claim for the repairs to the hallway and lounge based on the available 
evidence. And thinks RSAs offer to reattend to check this assessment is fair. However she 
thought it was reasonable for RSA to pay 50% towards the replacement of the paving slabs 
on the second path, in order to match the other one. 
Ms K accepted our investigators opinion. However RSA didnt. It said the second path 
wasnt damaged and therefore wasnt covered under the policy so didnt agree it should 
contribute to its replacement. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA has offered to re-attend Ms Ks property to inspect the hallway and lounge, and 
Ms K has accepted our investigators findings on this, all thats left for me to consider is 
whether RSA has acted fairly by declining to pay a contribution towards the second path. 
 While I can see the policy doesnt offer cover for undamaged parts of the home, I dont think 
RSA has acted fairly by declining to offer a contribution. Ill explain why. 
Ms Ks garden is made up of a paved area and two paths leading from this. The area and 
paths were originally all made up of terracotta paving slabs. However these were replaced 
with grey paving slabs on the paved area and first path, so now there is a clear mismatch 
between the second path and the rest of the paving. 
When a repair is carried out by an insurer and it creates a mis-match with undamaged items, 
this service thinks its reasonable for the insurer to contribute to the remaining items that 
havent been damaged. This is to compensate its customer as they are left with something 
that doesnt look as good as it did before the claim.
Here, the contrast between the different coloured paving slabs creates a clear mismatch, so 
I agree with our investigator that RSA should contribute 50% to the replacement of the 
second path in Ms Ks garden so it matches the rest of the slabs. 
RSA has said Ms K chose the grey paving slabs, so she is responsible for the mismatch. 
While this is true, Ms K has explained that she thought all the paving slabs would be 
replaced, so she had no reason to foresee that there would be a mismatch. Shes provided 
this service with messages from the contractor and from these I can understand why she 
was under this impression. So I dont think its fair for RSA to decline a contribution due to 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms K 
50% of the cost of replacing the paving slabs on the second path in her garden. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman