DRN-2477607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) didnt do enough to 
help them when they fell victim to a scam.  
Although the funds were sent from a joint account, for ease of reading, as Mr P has taken a 
lead in the complaint, Ill mostly just refer to him in my decision, but the reference should be 
understood as meaning both Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here.
Its understood that in March 2019, Mr P believed he was purchasing a mobile phone hed 
seen advertised online. He made an online payment of £280 from his joint account held with 
bank H to the account details provided by the seller. The beneficiary account was with 
PrePay. 
A couple of days later, Mr P received a message from the website where hed seen the 
mobile phone advertised, informing him the seller had been reported as fraudulent. It was at 
this point, Mr P realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam. He immediately reported the 
matter to the police, who advised him to contact H and report the incident to Action Fraud  
all of which he did.
H contacted PrePay to try and recover Mr Ps funds, and to let it know about his concerns 
about one of its customers. PrePay informed H no funds remain to be returned.
Having exhausted his pursuit of recovery through Action Fraud, the police and H, Mr P 
complained to PrePay. He felt it was inconceivable that PrePay had not shared the 
beneficiary account holder details with the police. He wanted it to report the fraud and return 
the £280 hed been tricked into sending to one of its customers accounts. 
PrePay didnt uphold his complaint. It didnt think it should reimburse Mr Ps loss. It didnt 
agree that it was at fault. It explained itd acted appropriately by blocking the account upon 
notification of possible fraud and correctly reported to H that no funds remained to be 
returned. It said, unfortunately, due to the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), it 
was unable to provide Mr P with any other details in relation to the beneficiary account. But 
provided assurances that it has robust Anti Money Laundering (AML) procedures in place 
and Know your Customer (KYC) checks are conducted on all its customers before an 
account is opened. And whilst it wouldnt report a crime on Mr Ps behalf, it would be willing 
and happy to assist the police in their investigations. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked this service to review the matter. 
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend the complaint should be
upheld. In summary she thought PrePay had treated Mr P fairly. She was satisfied PrePay 
couldnt reasonably have done anything more to prevent his loss.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings. He expressed concerns about the banking 
systems enabling criminals to launder money. He thinks that everybody is doing everything 
they can to protect the criminal who stole his money rather than doing something to help 
him, the victim, recover his loss. 
Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. 
Firstly, I appreciate from Mr Ps perspective, having been the victim of fraud through no fault 
of his own why he feels strongly about his complaint. I note his concerns about the lack of 
interest or support from other organisations hed contacted for help, but to be clear Im only 
able to look at Prepays actions here. 
I also acknowledge his general concerns about the banking systems and processes not 
being fit for purpose; enabling criminal activities and not doing enough to support and protect 
victims. But whether or not the regulations and rules are sufficient is ultimately a matter for 
the financial regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and not something I can 
comment on. This service was set up to resolve individual disputes between a complainant 
and business, with no powers to fine or punish businesses or tell them to improve their 
processes. 
My role here is limited to deciding whether or not PrePay reasonably did enough to prevent, 
or respond to, the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And if it did not whether its 
acts or omissions resulted in Mr Ps loss. I of course have great sympathy for individuals 
affected by such cruel scams. But it remains that I cant reasonably ask PrePay to reimburse 
losses if there werent any failings by it and the loss resulted from a failure by another 
organisation or the criminal actions of a third party. 
I understand why Prepays response that it was unable to disclose any information to Mr P 
and wouldnt report the beneficiary account holder to the police felt unsatisfactory to him. But 
I do not consider that PrePay is obliged to provide detailed information about its security 
systems nor actions it took in relation to a third-party account. That type of information is not 
generally disclosed, because it includes personal data and, sensitive information about a 
banks fraud prevention systems and security processes. PrePay is also not required to 
report such matters to the police  it would be for Mr P as the victim of the crime to report the 
incident to the appropriate authorities.
PrePay has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and has provided that which is necessary for the 
determination of this complaint. But Im also limited to how much of this I can share for the 
same reasons as PrePay. But Id like to assure Mr P Ive carefully reviewed everything 
before reaching my decision.   And in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that PrePay carried out checks to 
verify the identity of the account holder and did its due diligence when opening the 
beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve 
alerted PrePay that the account it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im 
satisfied it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Ps loss when opening the account.
In addition to customer due diligence requirements at account opening, regulated firms such 
as PrePay are also required to have ongoing monitoring of their business relationships. And, 
more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as a 
matter of good industry practice at the time, it should reasonably have had measures in 
place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or financial 
abuse. With this in mind Ive carefully considered whether PrePay ought to have had 
concerns about the operation of the beneficiary account meaning that it ought to have 
intervened. Having reviewed the account statements provided by PrePay I cant say that 
there was any account activity that I think would reasonably have alerted PrePay to the 
possibility of fraud or given rise to a reason for it to act outside its mandate - which is to 
make the payments authorised by its customer. So in these circumstances I dont think 
PrePay reasonably couldve done more to prevent Mr Ps loss.
And finally, once notified of the fraud, I dont think PrePay could reasonably have done 
anything more to limit Mr Ps loss. As unfortunately, his funds had been withdrawn by the 
beneficiary before Hs notification was received. 
I appreciate Mr P was warned by the website on which he saw the mobile phone advertised 
that the seller was likely fraudulent, which would naturally raise the question of whether the 
misuse of the beneficiary account to misappropriate funds had been reported to PrePay 
before the funds Mr P had sent to the account, had been withdrawn. But PrePay have 
confirmed that the notification they got from H (which was on behalf of Mr P) was the first 
report of fraud in relation to that account. So this also isnt a case where it could be said that 
there had been a prior notification that PrePay hadnt appropriately responded to, which 
possibly couldve limited Mr Ps loss.
I do realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P and Im sorry to hear of 
what he has been through, but ultimately this has been caused by the acts of a fraudster. 
Overall, I cant fairly conclude PrePay missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ps loss and Im 
satisfied it responded appropriately when notified by H of the alleged APP fraud. So I wont 
be asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman