DRN-1519114
The complaint
Mr Ts unhappy with the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have offered him for his car 
when he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Ts car was unfortunately stolen. He raised a claim with UKI for the 
loss.
After some discussion UKI eventually offered £38,000 and said this was their final offer. 
During this process Mr T set out why he thought that was unfair, including information such 
as:
Significant amounts of extras that would enhance the value of the vehicle
Extreme care taken with his car because hes a car enthusiast  including repairs at 
an authorised manufacturers dealership
Car itself has stopped being made, and as a desirable car this increases the value
He had a previous version of this type of car, at a lower specification, which sold for 
more than he bought it for  so his logic was in looking after this car, he could 
potentially do the same
Mr T also explained hed looked around at adverts and dealers and just couldnt get a car for 
this price in a similar condition and thought £45,000 would be a fairer offer. He also 
explained their engineer said he could have gone to a specialist insurer  so why didnt they 
tell him that when taking out the policy? Because of this he asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so, but he felt UKI had acted fairly. He explained we use trade 
guides to value second hand cars and found that UKI had provided a fair value using those 
guides. He could see UKI had taken into account the additional items Mr T had added to the 
car. And he thought it fair Mr T checked the policy when taking it out  so didnt think UKI 
had acted unreasonably on this point either. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. In summary he said:
Its disappointing hed have to make up the difference in price to be back in the same 
position  and that he bought his car from a dealer to have the reassurance of a 
warranty and that the car was genuine
UKI originally said they were looking at a valuation of £40,000, which he hopes we 
can understand might now feel misleading
UKIs technician told him theyd not had a reply from one of the trade guides, but they 
were under pressure to resolve this as they were due to go on holiday  Mr T feels 
something very important to him was rushed
Taking an average of the trade guides isnt fair and isnt applicable in his situation  
and he doesnt feel hes being offered the market value
And he provided adverts showing two vehicles with values of £42,500 and £45,000.
Because Mr T didnt agree with our investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to express my sympathy for the situation Mr T has found himself in. His car was 
stolen, and it meant a lot to him  so Im genuinely sorry to hear of the experience Mr Ts 
had.
Mr T feels very strongly that his car is worth more than what hes being offered for it at the 
moment. Hes set out in detail the reasons for that which Ive noted above  and I want him 
to be aware Ive considered everything he said very carefully.
Mr Ts policy will pay the market value of his car at the time its deemed a total loss. Itll help 
to explain that its very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of our service to 
value Mr Ts car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the insurers 
offer is reasonable. 
To do this, we get valuations from motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second 
hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence provided by both parties. This might 
include engineers reports, information from dealers and, in some cases, adverts for similar 
cars. 
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional 
variations. We dont find adverts particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking 
prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair market 
value for the type of car being assessed.
The majority of the evidence Mr T has provided to demonstrate why the value of his car 
should be higher is because of the additional care hes taken with the car. Based on the 
evidence hes provided its clear he did really look after his car. But I think its worth adding 
that the trade valuations that this service looks at is for cars in very good condition and at the 
high end of the valuation prices available.
The valuation offered by UKI is £38,000 which I appreciate is less than the £40,000 Mr T 
says the engineer told him during one of their conversations  but this was before they 
finalised their position.  That valuation of £38,000 factors in the mileage, non-standard 
fitments, and the condition of the car. Itll help to explain the value of the car is determined as 
at the time of the loss  in Mr Ts case, November 2019.
Ive looked at the valuations UKI completed and ones completed by our investigator. The 
average values obtained from the trade guides is around £32,700. Ive repeated the exercise 
for the date Mr Ts car was stolen  and again this shows the same average figures  over 
£5,000 less than what UKI have offered.
Mr T has made several arguments his car would be increasing in value  because the 
manufacturer has stopped making it which means its becoming rarer. So, I completed new 
valuations to show the date of loss as September 2020. This produced an average of just 
over £33,000. So again, is similar to the date of loss in November 2019 and still below the value offered by UKI. And in all of the valuations used, the low mileage, and condition of the 
car, have been factored in to get these averages.
So, UKI have actually offered around £5,000 more than the average of the trade guides 
suggest. Because of this, I cant reasonably say the offer theyve made is unfair.
Ive noted Mr T has also provided two adverts, but these are from an auction site, and the 
prices would most likely allow for negotiation  and indeed one of those adverts does say itll 
consider offers. And these cars arent like for like  one of the cars has around 10,000 less 
miles which would make a difference to the value  and for the other car I cant see how 
many miles itd done. So, I dont think these adverts mean the offer should be increased.
Ive also noted Mr T had concerns that UKI didnt tell him when taking out the policy that he 
should have had it insured by a specialist policy. It appears Mr T took the policy out through 
a comparison website, so doesnt seem like UKI gave him any advice on taking out the 
policy. But in any event Mr Ts argument is based on UKI not offering the market value. And 
for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied theyve offered a fair market value for the 
car in line with the trade guide valuations.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman