DRN-3465216
The complaint
Mr H says HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated him unfairly with regards to his overdraft. 
What happened
Mr H is unhappy with the changes HSBC made to its overdraft pricing and charging structure 
in April 2020 as well as the two letters it sent him in January and February 2021 about 
finding a way to reduce his overdraft limit. He also complains that HSBC did not send a copy 
of his overdraft agreement despite multiple requests, and that it has not made reasonable 
adjustments to allow him to correspond as he needs to, in writing. To resolve his complaint 
he wanted a copy of his agreement; the financial loss he has suffered from the rate rise on 
his overdraft to be corrected; for an offer of a facility at a more appropriate rate to be 
provided in writing; and for the bank to properly accommodate his disability.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said, in summary:
The bank is not obliged to retain a copy of the original overdraft agreement for as 
long as its in place: each year it issues updated terms and conditions which 
determine how the facility works.
HSBC provided the required notice before making changes to the overdraft pricing 
and charges, and the changes were in line with a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
ruling that came into effect on 6 April 2020.
Mr Hs bank statements show persistent use of his overdraft and we would expect a 
responsible lender to review this.
HSBCs records highlight Mr Hs hearing impairment and to contact him by post, 
which it has.
Mr H was unhappy with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary:
The FCA ruling said lenders must charge the same rate on arranged and 
unarranged overdrafts, not that the rate on arranged overdrafts must be increased 
to match the cost of unarranged overdrafts. What HSBC did is unfair and 
penalises him.
His overdraft dates back to 2008, it did not start on 2014. What evidence do we 
have that it is not sustainable? He does not consider himself to be dependent on 
it.
HSBC states it is a responsible lender  how is increasing the overdraft interest 
rate to 39.9% responsible? He has not been treated fairly. 
He is not looking for financial planning advice or affordability checks, just a loan 
divergence to transfer his overdraft debt onto a more appropriate facility. But 
surely his ongoing maintenance of the facility demonstrates affordability.
HSBC has not accommodated his disability; it continues to direct him to call. And 
it has ignored his request to allow him to submit a written application for a facility 
(to move his borrowing to, I am assuming).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of Mr Hs submissions and comments carefully. I will respond here to 
those points that remain in dispute and that I consider to be material to the outcome of his 
complaint. 
The change in overdraft pricing
I find HSBC has acted fairly and reasonable in the way it implemented the changes. I note it 
also offered a transition period because of the pandemic and it provided the required 
advance notice to comply with the terms of Mr Hs account. He is unhappy that in response 
to the FCA ruling that restricted fixed fees and higher charges for unarranged overdraft 
HSBC increased the cost of its arranged overdrafts. But I cant say the bank did anything 
wrong  this was a commercial decision that it is entitled to make.
Mr Hs overdraft
We would expect HSBC to monitor and respond to prolonged use of an overdraft facility. I 
disagree with Mr Hs argument that the management of an overdraft within its limit is a 
demonstration of sustainable affordability. And the letters demonstrate HSBCs intent was to 
help Mr H reduce his interest costs. Mr H argues he is not looking for financial planning or 
affordability checks - he wants a firm written offer of an alternative way to manage his debt. 
But for HSBC to assist him it would need to discuss his current financial situation and carry 
out appropriate and up-to-date affordability checks. This service would not expect it to make 
any lending offer to Mr H without first doing this.  
Accommodating his disability
From what I can see HSBC was made aware of Mr Hs hearing impairment on 2 March 
2021. We asked him to confirm this but have received no reply. HSBC acknowledged it in its 
final response letter of 7 May 2021 and offered the option to visit any branch to discuss his 
overdraft facility - although it somewhat confusingly also gave a phone number to call. 
In subsequent correspondence on 16 November 2021 I can see the bank again 
acknowledged Mr Hs hearing impairment that prevented telephone discussions. It said he 
could visit any branch where its representative would be able to assist and speak to its 
specialist team by phone on his behalf. And in its letters of 8 February 2022 and 1 March 
2022 it set out other contact options such as Textphone and the UK Relay app. So I think it 
has acknowledged Mr Hs hearing impairment and offered alternative communication 
methods.
HSBC has explained its correspondence may continue to reference the phone as Mr H 
hasnt asked that his customer contact preferences be changed to exclude the telephone, 
rather he said he was unable to enter into any detailed discussion on the phone. It notes    
Mr H regularly uses its voice service over the phone. It has said Mr H would need to give it 
permission to change his contact preferences if he wishes to do so. I anticipate Mr H will be disappointed with my findings, but in particular I hope they will help 
him understand why the bank must take certain steps if it is to assist him better manage his 
overdraft debt. I would urge him to contact the banks specialist team either by using 
Textphone, the UK Relay app or by visiting a branch and asking an adviser to call on his 
behalf. I have not seen any evidence in his submission that none of these options offer a 
suitable solution.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman