DRN-4322174
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough 
to prevent their loss as a result of a scam.
What happened
Briefly, in September 2018, the director of R was contacted by a scammer posing as a staff 
member from HMRC. He was told that HMRC had previously miscalculated the tax due from 
R and therefore the company needed to pay a further sum of about £5,000.
The director says that the call appeared to come from a genuine HMRC number, and the 
caller knew a lot of information about Rs accounts. So, he didnt have any doubt that the 
caller was from HMRC. He went ahead and made the requested payment, spread over three 
transactions. 
As soon as the call with the scammer ended, the director contacted Barclays as he was 
suspicious about what had happened. Barclays in turn contacted the recipients bank but 
unfortunately the funds had been removed swiftly by the recipient. 
Early this year, the director asked Barclays to reimburse Rs loss. The bank didnt agree.  It 
said it made no error. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and was of the view that it could not be 
upheld. They said that the bank made no error or omission. They said, in summary:
The payments were not particularly unusual or suspicious compared to the normal 
account activity. Further, R didnt interact with the banks staff at the time, so it cant be 
said that the bank missed an opportunity to identify the scam. 
At the time the scam happened, the banks were not obliged to check whether the 
payees name matched the actual name on the recipients account. Such a check, called 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP), was introduced only afterwards. 
There was a slight delay by Barclays in contacting the recipients bank to notify them of 
the scam. But the funds were rapidly dispersed within minutes upon receipt, and so the 
delay didnt make a difference to the ultimate outcome. 
R did not agree. They said that the bank ought to have found it suspicious when three 
payments went in quick succession to a newly added payee, and therefore intervened. 
Further, the payees name as input by R was incomplete, as it had no prefix or surname. 
That ought to have been picked up by the bank.  The bank should also have given a warning 
that it wouldnt be validating the name.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and for essentially 
the same reasons. 
As the investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional 
steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Rs account statements for a year or so prior to the payments to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account with many incoming and outgoing payments. There have been several 
occasions of multiple payments on the same day though many of them appear to be internal 
transfers to another account. 
However, there have been external payments of similar or higher amounts too. For example, 
in June 2018 there was a payment of £2,000 to a third party, and a week before the scam 
there was a payment of about £5,000 to HMRC. In fact, I see that most of the external 
payments were to HMRC (an existing payee). So, I can see the banks argument that there 
was no need to set up a new payee to pay any shortfall in tax. 
I agree that the three payments went in quick succession. However, as I said, this was an 
active account, and the size of the three payments were not unusual compared to the typical 
transactions. So, I am not persuaded this alone ought to have given the bank a cause for 
concern. 
The director has said that the payees name, as input by him, had no prefix or surname. He 
says that the bank failed to validate this and raise this as a concern. Instead, it allowed the 
payments through. However, looking at the bank statement it seems more likely that the 
payees name was entered in full (which was the directors name). It seems that it was in the 
reference field just his first name was entered. However, a customer is usually able to input 
what they consider necessary in the reference field.
Regarding the banks failure to carry out the name check, as the investigator has said, at the 
relevant time the bank was not required to check the payees name against the actual name 
on the destination account. So long as the unique identifiers (which tend to be sort code and 
account number) were correct, the bank was able to carry out Rs instructions. Whilst it is 
always helpful if the bank could provide as much warning and information as possible, it was 
not obliged to warn the payer that it was not carrying out a name check. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for Barclays as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payments stood out 
sufficiently to reasonably have prompted Barclays to take further action. Im not persuaded 
that there was enough here for me to find Barclays was at fault in carrying out Rs payment 
instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.There was some delay in Barclays contacting the recipient bank. However, the available 
information shows that the recipient had immediately withdrawn the money. So, even if the 
bank had acted quickly to inform the recipients bank, I consider it unlikely that any funds of 
R would have been recovered.  
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to R. But I can only make an award against a 
bank if it has done something wrong that led to a loss. In this case, for the reasons given, I 
am not persuaded that there was any error or omission on part of Barclays which has 
resulted in Rs loss. As such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman