DRN-4312756
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim under his home
emergency policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
whats happened.
Mr R has a home emergency policy which is underwritten by AXA. In mid-January
2023, he contacted AXA because his boiler had stopped working leaving him without
hot water.
An engineer attended who identified a new part was needed. But the engineer said it
couldnt be sourced.
Mr R subsequently located the part and informed AXA. In mid-March, an engineer
attended to fit the new part and the issue was resolved.
During the claim, Mr R complained to AXA several times about the lack of service
hed received. He said engineers failed to attend on eight occasions, and hed spent
an unreasonable amount of time chasing AXA for updates on his claim. During this
time, he was without hot water which he says caused him significant difficulties.
AXA accepted its service had fallen short and paid Mr R £425 compensation.
Mr R remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator
considered it and said he thought the amount of compensation AXA had paid was 
fair.
Mr R disagreed and so, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans
decision. I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont consider the amount of compensation AXA has offered to reasonably
reflect the difficulties Mr R experienced and Ill explain why.
As an insurer, AXA has a responsibility to progress claims promptly. Its not in dispute that
hasnt happened here as AXA has accepted it caused avoidable delays. From what Ive
seen, this claim took almost two months to resolve, when it seems the problem with the
boiler  once a new part had been sourced - was fixed in a matter of hours. Even allowing
AXA one week to find and source the part (which I note Mr R helped them find), Im satisfied
Mr R experienced delays of approximately seven weeks. A considerable amount of time to
be without hot water which Im satisfied had a significant impact on his day-to-day life. AXA
is also aware Mr R is an older consumer and has vulnerabilities, and so, being without these
facilities had a greater impact on him.
Ive seen Mr R spent time having to chase up what was happening with his claim  both by
email and telephone  and that he wasnt provided with helpful updates. To add to this,
engineers failed to attend appointments on eight occasions which understandably caused
him inconvenience and frustration.
So, overall, Im not satisfied the compensation AXA has already paid reflects the difficulties
Mr R experienced and so, I intend to direct it to increase this to £750 in total.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK
Plc to:
pay Mr R £750 compensation in total. It can deduct from this amount the 
compensation it has already paid Mr R.
Both parties replied to my decision. AXA said it had nothing further to add. Mr R replied  in 
summary he said:
AXA has only paid £275 compensation. 
AXAs subsequent offer of an additional £150 compensation  which was to resolve 
all matters concerning the complaint - hasnt been paid. 
AXA should pay an additional £750 compensation to reflect the difficulties hes 
experienced  bringing the total compensation to £1,025. 
The part required to complete the repair was available from the manufacturer on         
20 January 2023, and so the repair could have been completed at an earlier date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs comments in response to my provisional decision. However, they 
havent led me to reach a different outcome - Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr R considers AXA to have attributed specific amounts of compensation to 
certain elements of his complaint (for example, £150 for a missed engineer appointment) 
and so, considers £750 to insufficiently reflect all the difficulties he experienced. 
When this Service considers awards for compensation, our approach is to look at the overall 
picture  we dont usually make specific awards for someones time or calculate it using a 
set amount. We do however, factor in the inconvenience someone may have experienced in 
spending time dealing with a matter  which is what Ive considered when deciding what I 
consider to be fair compensation in this case. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont doubt Mr R suffered avoidable distress and 
inconvenience for a period of approximately two months. But in line with our publicised 
approach to awards for distress and inconvenience, I remain satisfied that £750 
compensation in total fairly reflects the difficulties he experienced during this time. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay Mr R £750 compensation in total. It can deduct from this amount any 
compensation it has already paid Mr R. AXA must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for 
settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman