DRN-1976780
The complaint
Mr O has complained about a loan he took out through a company called United Kash 
Limited, trading at the time as Lend UK. Mr O says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan 
caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lend UK throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr O took out just 1 loan from Lend UK, in 2010. One of our adjudicators 
has looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be upheld. Mr O disagreed, 
so Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Os complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr O, Im afraid theres no credible supporting evidence for me to uphold 
his complaint. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely, so its not particularly 
unusual that we dont have all the records still available relating to this transaction; it was 
now some 10 years ago. The bulk of the complaint therefore relates to Mr Os submissions 
and he explained how his financial position was precarious at the time and he should never 
have been lent to.
In general terms, Lend UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr O could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These 
checks ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts 
being lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lend UK should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Os complaint.
Lend UK told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr O, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It implies that based on what was 
said, this information showed that Mr O would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. 
Given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I dont have 
anything that indicates Lend UK did anything wrong. It provided a single loan of moderate 
value. Even if I accept Mr O was experiencing wider financial problems, I think Lend UK was 
justified - at that stage in the lending relationship - in taking Mr Os self-declared income and 
expenditure on face value and carrying out only moderate checks. I think this was 
appropriate for the situation at the time.
Had the lending continued and hed been lent to more and more over the subsequent 
months, then clearly, I would expect the financial and background checks to become more 
comprehensive. That did not occur, however. This was a single loan of only £150.
I note Mr Os submission about his other borrowing, elsewhere. And whilst I dont wish to 
imply this wasnt a significant concern for him, Im afraid it has no bearing on this particular 
loan, for the reasons Ive outlined above.
In short, Lend UK wasnt obliged, in my view, to carry out a full financial overview in this 
situation. I think the checks carried out were probably proportionate and so there isnt 
enough evidence to uphold his complaint. Im sorry to have to disappoint him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct United Kash 
Limited to pay Mr O any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman