DRN-4359533
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, who Ill call
Santander.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs F acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs F. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mrs F complained soon after she took receipt of the car, that the key fob wouldnt unlock it.
An independent inspection was completed in October 2022 and the inspector clarified there
was a fault that was likely to have been present when the car was supplied and was
therefore the suppliers responsibility to rectify.
The relevant legislation gives the business one chance to repair faults that are present when
goods are supplied, but a further inspection has explained that repairs have failed, and faults
persist. In those circumstances the relevant legislation says Mrs F should be allowed to
reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Santander say that action is disproportionate, but I dont agree. This was a new car and I
think Mrs F could have expected it to have been fault free for some time. I can imagine it
must have been frustrating not to have been able to gain access without using the blade,
and I also understand from the inspectors reports that the alarm would sound when the car
was accessed in that manner. I dont think that was a trivial issue and I dont therefore think
rejection is disproportionate.
Putting things right
Santander should collect the car at no cost to Mrs F and they should end the finance
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs F has paid and, as shes been deprived of that
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mrs F has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the
dealership on several occasions and has had to arrange to be present at the independent
inspections. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could
have been resolved earlier. Since our investigator issued her view in March 2023 there have
been some further delays waiting for Santander to organise a further independent
inspection, although these were limited. On balance, I think Santander should pay Mrs F
£400 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
This was a new car and I think the issues Mrs F has experienced with it will have impacted
on her enjoyment of the car. To compensate Mrs F for that Santander should refund 5% of
the monthly instalments Mrs F has paid to her agreement, but its fair for them to retain the
rest of the payments as Mrs F has had use of the car.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to:
Allow Mrs F to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs F.
Refund any deposit or part exchange contribution that may have been paid and add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 5% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of
enjoyment and impaired use. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs F £400 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Fs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
Mrs F didnt think my provisional decision was fair. She explained that a deposit wasnt paid 
for the car, and she did not think surrendering the car was a satisfactory outcome, given her
daughter would be further inconvenienced by being without a car, and would have to sort a 
further finance agreement when she is currently a student midwife and has not got the time 
or the means to do so. She didnt think the amount of compensation was sufficient to 
address the distress and inconvenience caused either. She suggested that she should keep 
the car, fix it at her own cost, and be provided with £2,000 in full and final settlement.
Santander said the dealership would replace the key fob and theyd be happy to pay the 
compensation I set out in my provisional decision. They said if the repair didnt work they 
would support Mrs F in rejecting the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained that the relevant legislation expects a business to attempt to repair 
goods in these circumstances, but if the repair fails, as has been the case here, the 
consumer should be allowed to reject the car. Im not persuaded that the distress and 
inconvenience experienced here requires a higher award than I set out in my provisional 
decision. It seems there has been no problem driving the car, and Mrs F has been able to 
access it albeit, at times, only by using the key blade. 
I understand Mrs Fs daughter has been using the vehicle. but its Mrs F who has been 
financing it and she is Santanders customer. It wouldnt, therefore, be fair for me to take into 
account the problems Mrs Fs daughter, a third party, may have in securing finance.
As Santander are still prepared to repair the fault it may be that Mrs F prefers that option. 
But Ive not been persuaded to increase the compensation I suggested in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to:
Allow Mrs F to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs F.
Refund 5% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of
enjoyment and impaired use. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs F £400 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Fs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman