DRN-3041977
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC offered him a loan which he couldnt accept due 
to limitations with the e-signature. He feels they have discriminated against him.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr A applied for a £7,000 loan with Barclays. The £7,000 was pre-
approved and Mr A had to sign for it using an e-signature before Barclays would release the 
funds. Mr A attempted to sign for the loan but received an error message. Barclays raised 
the error with their IT department who tried to resolve the issue but wasnt successful.
Barclays initially said they couldnt generate a paper version of the loan documents  it had 
to be signed for online. So, Mr A raised a complaint.
In the meantime, a new loan was requested for £3,900  so the previous loan offer for 
£7,000 was removed. Mr A still couldnt sign the online document. Mr A explained he needed 
the loan to pay for home improvements which had already been carried out  so he was 
being chased for the money. 
Mr A explained he feels he has been racially profiled and discriminated against by Barclays.
Barclays explained a system error occurred for both loans and theyd raised it with their 
technical support team. Barclays thought the most likely explanation was because there was 
a security mechanism in place to stop e-signatures if the IP address was outside the UK. 
They also said Mr A could sign for the loan in branch  but Mr A couldnt do that as he told 
Barclays he was outside of the UK. Barclays also confirmed all decisions to lend is based on 
affordability and their lending criteria  and they were satisfied they hadnt discriminated 
against Mr A. 
In their final response, Barclays offered Mr A to manually apply for the loan in branch when 
he was back in the UK and they would try to arrange the same term and APR he was 
originally offered. Barclays also paid compensation to Mr A for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator explained that he hadnt seen 
any evidence of discrimination, and thinks Barclays acted proactively in trying to put things 
right for Mr A. He also thinks the offer to try and manually put the loan through when Mr A 
returned to the UK, and the compensation theyd offered, was fair. So, he didnt ask Barclays 
to do anything differently.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he was in the UK at the time for trying to sign for the loan and has 
also tried on two separate occasions in branch. So, he felt Barclays had misled our service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not recommending Barclays do anything differently. I know this will 
come as a great disappointment to Mr A  so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Mr As location when trying to electronically sign for the loans
Mr A has explained that he tried to sign for the loan in branch and he was in the UK when 
trying to complete the e-signature. Ive reviewed the contact notes Barclays has provided 
and I can see that Mr As complaint was first logged on 2 December 2019. From these 
notes, it has been referenced that Mr A told Barclays he was travelling Europe and Africa at 
the time. Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to show our service he was in fact in the UK at 
the time, and I find it unlikely Barclays would have recorded Mr As location as travelling 
Europe and Africa if he didnt tell them that. Ive also seen that Barclays proactively 
contacted their lending team when they realised the technical support team couldnt resolve 
the issue. Within these notes, it confirms that they have asked to print the loan agreements 
so Mr A could manually sign them in branch. The notes go on to confirm that wouldnt be 
possible because Mr A wasnt in the UK. 
In conclusion, while I have no reason to doubt Mr A, the above information linked together 
with the comments from the technical support team regarding the IP address, make me 
believe its likely Mr A was outside of the UK at the time of trying to sign for the loans. 
Did Barclays discriminate against Mr A?
Mr A has commented that he feels Barclays racially profiled and discriminated against him. 
This is a serious allegation Mr A has made, and one Ive considered carefully. Barclays 
approved the loans Mr A applied for  and the issue Mr A faced was with signing for them 
electronically.
Im satisfied Barclays raised this issue to the relevant teams to find out why Mr A couldnt 
sign using the e-sign function. Barclays technical support team supplied a plausible answer 
to that  and it was because the IP address appeared to be outside of the UK. This is a 
security measure Barclays have in place, and one which I find to be reasonable  and even 
if I didnt, its not for me to say what Barclays processes should be. 
Because of this, Ive seen no evidence of discrimination being applied against Mr A for any 
of his protected characteristics, including his race. I hope its reassured Mr A that somebody 
impartial has considered this allegation and found no evidence to support it.
Do Barclays need to do anything differently?
I recognise this would have been a difficult time for Mr A. He applied for a loan to pay for 
home improvements  and couldnt access the money because of a technical issue. While 
the technical issue sat with Barclays, I cant fairly hold them responsible for the reasons 
behind it.
Ive considered Barclays actions when they became aware of the issue  and they offered 
alternative solutions to Mr A. One of these options was to sign for the loan in branch which 
Mr A couldnt do because of his location so Barclays confirmed theyd try to manually 
process a new loan when he returned to the UK. I think this is a reasonable alternative given 
the circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays tried to help Mr A.
Barclays also recognised the distress this overall situation would have caused  and the 
inconvenience of calling them from abroad. They paid Mr A in the region of £300 
compensation in total which I think fairly reflects this distress. Because of that, I dont 
consider Barclays need to do anything differently.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman