DRN-2329267
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Loans 2 Go Limited has treated him in relation to a 
logbook loan.  
What happened
Mr M was given a loan of £500 by Loans 2 Go in February 2019. The total amount repayable 
including interest was just over £2,480, repayable in 36 monthly instalments. 
I understand that Mr M experienced some difficulties repaying the loan and his account fell 
into arrears. He complained to Loans 2 Go that the loan hadnt been affordable. Loans 2 Go 
agreed to uphold his complaint and offered to write off the interest due on the loan so that Mr 
M only had to repay the principal amount that hed borrowed. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this Service. He says that Loans 2 Go continued to pursue 
him for a large amount of money and this has caused him a great deal of distress. Loans 2 
Go eventually agreed to write off the outstanding amount due and closed Mr Ms account. 
Our of our adjudicators looked into Mr M's complaint. He asked Loans 2 Go to remove any 
adverse information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file but he didnt think that Loans 2 Go 
should be asked to do anything more. Mr M didn't agree with that assessment. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to resolve the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this Service. This Service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Instead this Service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter.
From what Ive seen, when Mr M told Loans 2 Go that he was struggling to repay his loan, 
the lender did try to set up an affordable repayment plan with him. It also noted on its 
customer contact records that Mr M was a vulnerable customer. 
Loans 2 Go told Mr M in its Final Response dated November 2019 that it was going to 
uphold his complaint about the affordability of the loan and write off the interest that was 
due, which would mean he was only liable to repay the amount he originally borrowed. The 
letter also said that the total paid was just over £462. Loans 2 Go asked Mr M to confirm his 
acceptance of its offer so that the necessary adjustments could be made to his account and 
to arrange a repayment plan for the amount that was still outstanding.
I can see from the lenders customer contact notes that after sending its Final Response, 
Loans 2 Go attempted to contact Mr M, asking him to repay what was due on his account. It 
seems that Loans 2 Go was unable to make satisfactory contact and in late December an 
Overdue letter and Default Notice were automatically generated. 
From what I understand, I think its likely there was a breakdown of communications 
between Mr M and Loans 2 Go. Mr M didnt understand why he was being asked to repay a 
large amount when he understood from the Final Response that a much smaller sum was in 
fact due. But it appears that as Loans 2 Go hadnt been able to reach an agreement with Mr 
M about how or when this smaller outstanding amount would be paid, the lenders system 
continued to automatically generate messages asking for repayment of a much larger 
arrears sum.
Loans 2 Go eventually agreed in March 2020 to write off the outstanding amount due and to 
close Mr Ms account. But Mr M feels he should be compensated for all the distress that he 
has experienced which he says severely impacted on his mental health and well-being.
I appreciate that Mr M was very upset by what happened. From what Ive seen, Loans 2 Go 
did note in October 2019 that Mr M was a vulnerable customer and it did attempt to support 
him by setting up a repayment plan when he first ran into difficulties repaying his loan. But I 
dont think Loans 2 Go fully appreciated the negative impact that this matter had on Mr M at 
the time. Or how much anxiety it inadvertently caused him.
But Loans 2 Go did uphold Mr Ms complaint about the affordability of his loan and offered to 
write off the interest. It also subsequently agreed to write off the remaining outstanding 
capital and it has agreed to remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms 
credit file. I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy about his dealings with Loans 2 Go. But in the 
circumstances, I cannot fairly say that Loans 2 Go should be asked to do anything more.
I am aware that Mr M will be disappointed, but I would like to reassure him that in reaching 
my decision, I have very carefully considered everything that both he and Loans 2 Go have 
told us. Having done so, I am not asking Loans 2 Go to do anything more and I am not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman