DRN-2220336
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy about the way Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern Rock) has 
handled her claim under her motor insurance policy following a car accident.
What happened
Mrs R was the driver of vehicle which was involved in an accident. She had a 
comprehensive motor insurance policy with Southern Rock. She reported the accident to 
them and they initially declined her claim as there was an issue regarding the cars MOT. 
However, Southern Rock subsequently reviewed their decision and agreed to deal with the 
claim. This resulted in a 10 week delay and during this time Mrs R paid for temporary repairs 
to be carried out as she needed a car for work and other commitments.
Mrs R paid a total of £3,187.48 for the temporary repairs. These repairs were completed with 
second hand parts. Mrs Rs claim to Southern Rock was for a refund of the cost of the 
temporary repairs and for the full repairs to be carried out by a reputable insurance approved 
garage. She provided an estimate for the full repairs using new parts of £5,266.37, plus 
labour.
Southern Rock obtained an engineers report which estimated the cost of the full repairs to 
be £7,361 including parts and labour. They offered Mrs R £6,500 less the £700 policy 
excess as a cash in lieu payment for the repairs and the inconvenience caused by the delay 
dealing with the claim. Mrs R did not accept this and brought her claim to this service as she 
also wanted a refund of the costs of the temporary repairs.
Our investigator upheld the claim on the basis that Mrs R had only had to carry out the 
temporary repairs because of the delay in Southern Rock accepting her claim. He concluded 
that Southern Rock should refund the cost of the temporary repairs and pay for the full 
repairs. Southern Rock accepted the investigators decision on the basis that Mrs R provide 
full receipts for the repairs, including proof of payment.
Mrs R provided receipted invoices and Southern Rock paid a further £700 but have not 
made payment in full and therefore the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Southern Rock have already accepted Mrs Rs claim, and the only issue outstanding is the 
amount to be paid.
Having agreed our investigators decision, Southern Rock requested proof of payment of the 
invoices before making payment to Mrs R. This is not an unreasonable request. I have seen 
invoices, not estimates, provided by Mrs R for £37.48 for a new part, £950 for labour, and 
£2,200 for used parts. This totals £3,187.48. Mrs R says that she paid these amounts in 
cash and is therefore not able to provide any further evidence of payment.
I think that the invoices provided are sufficient proof that the sums have been paid. The £950 
invoice is marked Received £950 and the £2,200 invoice is marked Paid. Although these 
invoices are handwritten, they are issued by small independent garages and I have no 
reason to believe that they are not genuine. The £37.48 invoice is from a main dealer and 
although not marked as paid, it is an invoice and not an estimate and would be issued when 
purchasing a part direct from them. I also note that Southern Rocks engineers report does 
not suggest that the temporary repairs were not carried out. 
Mrs R has also provided an estimate from the main dealer garage for the new parts required 
to carry out the full repairs. This estimate has not been paid as the full repairs were not 
carried out. The estimate does not include a price for labour. Southern Rocks engineers 
report itemises the full cost of the repairs, including parts and labour, and I accept this as a 
reasonable estimate. Their estimate for parts alone was not dissimilar to the quote obtained 
by Mrs R. 
Southern Rock appear to have already made payment of two sums - £5,800 and £700. The 
£5,800 is based on their full costs estimate of £7,361 less vat on the basis that they were 
making a cash payment in lieu. This is usual practice where the repairs are not actually to be 
carried out by the insurer. The payment of £6,359.17 has then been made up to £6,500 to 
include a sum as compensation for the initial delay. This was paid, less the £700 excess. It is 
not clear what the additional £700 payment was for. 
Payment of £5,800 by way of cash in lieu has been made for the full repairs. If Mrs R intends 
to carry out the repairs and vat is payable on those repairs, I would expect Southern Rock to 
pay the vat added on to any insured work once Mrs R has shown that she has paid it. What 
has not already been paid is the cost of the original temporary repairs and I uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint in this regard. Mrs R should be put back into the position she would have been in 
if Southern Rock had dealt with the claim from the outset. This will therefore include making 
payment for the temporary repairs.
I do not make a specific award for distress and inconvenience. This is because Mrs R has 
already received the sum of £140.83 from Southern Rock within their payment of £5,800, 
which I think is fair.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Southern Rock are required to make payment of £3,187.48 less 
£700 already paid equalling £2,487.48. In addition, they should pay interest at 8% from the 
date payment was made by Mrs R to the date the sums are reimbursed to her. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and require Southern Rock Insurance 
Company to make payment of the sum of £2,487.48 to Mrs R, plus interest, as stated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman