DRN-4104479
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ziglu Limited asked him invasive and irrelevant questions as part of their 
Know Your Customer (KYC) checks.
What happened
Mr T says that Ziglu told him they would close his account unless he completed a 
questionnaire. He says they made claims that the questions must be answered in order to 
fulfil their regulatory obligations/KYC checks. But Mr T challenged them to identify which of 
the eight questions they asked him were required legally or to meet their regulatory 
obligations. He says that some questions such as question seven was not relevant to him as 
it asked him how much he intended to deposit in his first year, despite him being a customer 
of theirs for over two years. He says that no other regulated organisations he holds accounts 
with have asked him similar questions and he found the questions to be invasive. He says 
Ziglu were unable to provide any tangible evidence that the questions asked were required 
for regulatory purpose. Mr T made a complaint to Ziglu.
Ziglu did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said they are obliged under legislation to carry 
out due diligence on their customers, including KYC checks. The source of those obligations 
can be found in The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
(Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (SO 692/2017), as amended, as well as in 
related legislation and regulatory guidance. Ziglu said that they dont elaborate on how as a 
firm they meet their regulatory requirements with customers, particularly with respect to their 
compliance with Anti Money Laundering (AML) legislation. Ziglu said their terms allow them 
to close/suspend an account if a customer fails to provide them with the information they 
need. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that the terms and conditions of his 
account state that a customer must provide Ziglu with whatever information they request, 
and this may include information for the purposes of satisfying their own regulatory and 
compliance obligations and KYC checks. So given this was within the terms and conditions, 
he didnt think Ziglu had done anything wrong here. He said Ziglu was reasonable to close 
Mr Ts account when he didnt provide them with the relevant information. 
Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that Ziglu failed to provide the specifics of which of the eight questions 
were required legally or to meet their regulatory obligations. He said that as he has not 
received similar requests from similar organisations then the likelihood is that the questions 
are not required in order to fulfil legal or regulatory obligations and were for another purpose 
such as customer profiling. He said he had already gone through extensive KYC checks with 
Ziglu at the account opening stage, and he had been a customer for a long period of time 
before the questions were asked. He said there was no legal basis, regardless of what is 
detailed in terms and conditions, for a financial organisation to request or expect whatever 
information it requests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
It is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their KYC/AML processes or 
procedures such as what questions they should ask a customer in order for them to be 
satisfied they are meeting their legal or regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the power to instruct Ziglu to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
There is no set way in which the regulator requires a business to meet their KYC/AML 
requirements as set out in the FCAs current Financial Crime Guide  section 2.1.3G  All 
firms must take steps to defend themselves against financial crime, but a variety of 
approaches is possible.  So each business will have their own individual procedures with 
respect to KYC requirements. So Im not persuaded that because Mr T has said that none of 
the other financial institutions he has dealings with have asked him similar questions, that 
this means that Ziglu are doing something wrong.   
The aforementioned current FCA Financial Crime Guide sets out under section 3.2.5G the 
requirements for ongoing monitoring and states Ongoing monitoring means scrutinising 
transactions to ensure that they are consistent with what the firm knows about the customer, 
and taking steps to ensure that the firms knowledge about the business relationship remains 
current. So Im persuaded that even though Mr T had completed KYC checks when opening 
the account, this doesnt mean that Ziglu should not take steps to ensure their knowledge 
about their relationship with Mr T remained current, even if he didnt frequently use the 
account. Under section 3.2.6G, this discusses Establishing the source of funds and the 
source of wealth can be useful for ongoing monitoring and due diligence purposes. So Ziglu 
asked Mr T questions about the source of funds and the source of his wealth. 
The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the 
Payer) Regulations 2017, which Ziglu referred to in their final response letter, shows that 
under Chapter 1, section 28, point 11 that the relevant person at Ziglu must conduct 
ongoing monitoring of a business relationship.
So Im satisfied that Ziglu were asking the eight questions to Mr T to satisfy themselves that 
they were following their legal and regulatory requirements. Im persuaded that it is 
reasonable to expect customers circumstances to change over time, including their 
employment status, annual salary, the industry they work in, a customers experience with 
cryptocurrency and their net worth. So Im not persuaded asking these questions (in addition 
to Mr Ts source of funds) years after he first started his relationship with Ziglu is 
unreasonable.
Im persuaded that one of the questions could have been worded clearer. I say this because 
Mr T has told us he had been a customer of Ziglus for years, so it could be confusing when 
they asked him how much he intended to deposit in the first year. Its likely this should have 
read in the next year instead of first year.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about there being no legal basis, regardless of what is 
detailed in the terms and conditions, for a financial organisation to request or expect 
whatever information they request. But only a court of law can make a legal finding. Our service is an informal free alternative to the courts. But I understand the point Mr T is 
making. Here, the questions Ziglu have asked are in relation to their KYC checks (although I 
appreciate Mr T believes there are other purposes why theyve asked him these questions). I 
would expect Ziglu to only request information from him which is relevant to the relationship 
they have with him, and Im satisfied that the questions he was asked was relevant to the 
relationship they had with him to meet their own KYC requirements. 
As the potential legal/regulatory requirements can change over time, this is why its likely 
Ziglu have included this particular wording in their terms and conditions. But If Mr T had any 
doubt about this wording, it would be reasonable and proportionate for him to query this prior 
to opening his account with Ziglu, considering he would need to agree to the terms and 
conditions in order to open his account. If he disagreed with the wording or the expectation 
of Ziglu asking him for further information, then it would be proportionate of him to not agree 
to the terms and conditions and to not open the account with them. But he still opened an 
account with them. 
Based on Mr T not providing the information Ziglu asked him to satisfy themselves that they 
were meeting their legal and regulatory requirements, then they closed his account in line 
with section 16 of their terms and conditions. Im not persuaded they were unfair in doing so 
and they gave Mr T an opportunity to provide the information before they took the step of 
closing the account. So it follows that I dont require Ziglu to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman