DRN-2713566
The complaint
Mr C complains about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos (Argos) 
decision to close his credit card account. He says this has affected his credit rating and 
wants Argos to restore his credit rating and pay him compensation.  
What happened
Mr C held a credit card account with Argos until it was closed by them due to inactivity on the 
account. Mr C complained to Argos and they responded and said they had sent him a text 
message in June 2020 to give him two months notice that his account would be closing. 
They explained Mr Cs account was then closed in August. They said they have a duty to 
report factual information to Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) and have no control over how 
they then use that information. They didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. Argos told us, after they issued their final 
response, they had become aware of an issue where some customers werent sent 
notification prior to the account closure. So, they upheld the complaint and offered 
compensation of £75. Our investigator thought the offer was reasonable but Mr C disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think Argos offer is a fair way 
to resolve matters. I understand Mr C will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have 
made this decision. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account says, under the heading If you do not use your 
account 
We may end this agreement and close your account (by providing two months 
written notice), cancel or suspend your right to use your account and/or reduce your 
credit limit if it has been dormant, meaning there have been no purchases or there 
has been no balance owed to us for at least 6 months.
I can see from information provided that Mr C hadnt used the Argos account for more than 
six months. So, I think Argos have acted in line with the terms and conditions in their 
decision to close his account. 
The terms and conditions also say Argos will provide two months notice in writing. And, the 
key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Argos have admitted they got 
things wrong when they didnt provide Mr C with advance notice of his account closure. I 
think its right that Argos compensate Mr C, so the issue for me to decide is whether their 
offer is fair and reasonable.     
To decide this point, Ive looked at the impact this has had on Mr C. He says, had he been 
notified in advance, he wouldve let Argos know he still wishes to keep the account. Looking 
at the terms and conditions, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to Argos decision 
as the reason for the account closure was due to inactivity for at least six months. I cant see 
anywhere in the terms and conditions where it says Argos will reconsider their decision 
should a consumer tell them they still wish to keep the account. Mr C also says, had he 
received the notification, then he wouldve made a small purchase to keep the account 
active. Its not clear from the information provided whether, had Mr C taken such steps, 
Argos would still have continued to close his account. This might well have been a possibility 
given that, at the point they intended to send the notice, Mr Cs account was already inactive 
for more than six months. Alternatively, Argos mightve decided to keep the account open 
given that there was now activity. The issue here though is that Mr C wasnt given that 
opportunity to attempt to keep his account open  and that is what Ive taken into account.   
Mr C says Argos shouldve been more understanding about customers being less likely to 
use a credit card during the pandemic. I do take this on board and understand Mr Cs point 
but I cant say Argos have acted unfairly. The terms and conditions refer to inactivity of at 
least six months but in this case I can see Mr C hadnt used his account for over a year. So, I 
think Argos have taken a more flexible approach here.  
Mr C says Argos havent offered to give him his account back. I can see our investigator has 
put this to Argos. Argos say they cant reopen an account thats been closed and Mr C will 
need to reapply for a new account should he require use of this facility. So, reopening the 
account isnt an option which can be used to put Mr C back in the position he was in before 
the account was closed. I think Argos proposal here for Mr C to reapply is reasonable and 
presents Mr C with an option to apply for the credit account should he wish to do so.    
I can see Mr C has made reference to a number of sections in the terms and conditions. I 
have carefully reviewed these sections but, apart from the section about account inactivity, I 
dont think the other sections Mr C has referred to are relevant to this complaint. I do agree 
with Mr Cs point though that Argos havent acted in line with the terms and conditions by not 
giving him two months notice.  
I note Mr C is concerned about the impact the account closure has had on his credit file. Its 
important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about a customers 
account to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) state 
that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date. Ive 
also looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Cs account and this refers to Argos privacy 
policy which is available on their website. This says Argos will share information with CRAs. 
So, I dont think Argos have acted unreasonably in sharing information about the account 
closure with the CRAs. The information they share about Mr Cs account is factual so I cant 
say theyve acted unfairly.   
Mr C has provided a copy of his credit file for August and September and says the account 
closure led to his credit score falling by 63. I agree the information does show this and I can 
see this also led to Mr Cs credit score dropping one band. 
There are a range of factors which can lead to a credit score falling from one month to the 
next. Mr Cs credit reports for August and September arent much different apart from the 
Argos account showing as open in August and closed in September. So, this might well have 
been a reason, or part of the reason, for the fall in Mr Cs credit score. But, for the reasons I 
have set out, I dont think it was unreasonable for Argos to decide to close the account. And, 
I havent seen any evidence of the fall in credit score having a significant impact on Mr C.      I dont doubt this has been upsetting for Mr C, but my role is to consider whether Argos have 
acted fairly and reasonably. And, if I find they havent, then what I think they should do to put 
things right. I do agree Argos have made an error and, while I fully understand Mr Cs 
frustration at not being given advance notice of the account closure, I think the offer of £75 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Argos havent acted reasonably by not giving Mr C two months 
notice of their decision to close his account. Argos should pay compensation of £75 for the 
frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
trading as Argos must pay compensation to Mr C in the sum of £75 for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman