DRN-2051221
The complaint
Mr M complains that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) declined his application for a credit card 
after he had been pre-approved.
What happened
On 3 July 2020 I issued my provisional decision on this case. I explained that Id come to the 
same outcome as our investigator, but I wanted to explain my reasoning for this in more 
detail  and give both parties the chance to respond with any additional information. 
I have copied my provisional decision below:
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M went to Virgins website to apply for a credit card. He used its facility 
called a Card Checker to get an early indication as to whether or not he would be accepted 
by Virgin for the card. Mr M says the Card Checker tool confirmed that he would be 
accepted. So he went ahead and applied for the credit card. But he was later declined. He 
says he wouldnt have applied for the credit card if hed have thought he might have been 
declined. Hes also told us that hes unhappy that Virgin didnt tell him it would perform a full 
credit search on him before he applied for the card.
To resolve this complaint, Mr M says he would like Virgin to stand by the decision of the 
Card Checker tool and give him a credit card with the benefits it said it would. 
Virgin says there was no guarantee hed be approved for the credit card  even if the Card 
Checker said hed be accepted. It says the Card Checker doesnt search on a persons 
credit file, and a full credit search isnt completed at this stage, so the checker isnt able to 
give a final decision on the lending. Virgin hasnt given Mr M an exact reason as to why it 
declined his application but has said that it takes a number of factors into account when 
deciding whether or not to lend to someone. In Virgins response to Mr M, it says that it didnt 
feel the standard of service it had provided him with was satisfactory and so it offered him 
£50.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong. 
She thought Virgin had treated Mr M fairly and declined his application as its Virgins 
decision who it lends money to.
Mr B still didnt agree. He doesnt believe that he was told a full credit search would be 
completed on him. He states that the screen shots of the application process that this 
service have received are different to the ones he saw when going through the application. 
And that he feels he has been mislead by the information on Virgins website. 
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M feels that the evidence Virgin sent this service, which demonstrates what Mr M would 
have seen when going through the application is different to what he saw when applying. 
Because of this, I have checked with Virgin and asked them to send me the screen shots of 
what Mr M would have seen on the website in February 2019, which is when Mr M applied 
for the card.
Virgin has sent me information to show that when Mr M used the Card Checker tool, before 
carrying out the full application, he would have seen a screen that said the below: 
If you decide to go on to apply for a Virgin Money Credit Card after using Card Checker, we 
will ask you to complete a full application, at which point we would do a full application credit 
search. Even if your Card Checker results indicate you are likely to be approved, you may 
still be declined for a card as this full search is completed. We will retain the information you 
provide to us in Card Checker.
Mr M says that when he goes through the Card Checker tool process now, it says something 
different to the above  and he has sent me a copy of what he now sees. The wording on 
what Mr M has sent me is different, but this is because Virgin updated the text in the tool in 
March 2019, after Mr M applied for a credit card. But in any event, the text that Virgin has 
sent me, and the text sent to me by Mr M both state that a full credit search will be 
completed and that he could still be declined for a credit card.
Mr M says this information wasnt there when he applied. I dont disbelieve that Mr M doesnt 
remember seeing this, but I have also considered the possibility that Mr M may not have 
noticed this at the time or that he doesnt remember seeing it.
So taking everything Ive said into account, on balance, I think its more likely than not that 
Virgin let Mr M know that it would complete a full credit search on him if he chose to apply for 
the credit card  and that he could still be declined. And I think it likely he was aware of this 
at the time.
Ive now looked at the reason why Virgin turned Mr M down for a card. Virgin has sent me 
information about Mr Ms application. This shows that Mr M completed the Card Checker tool 
twice before going through the full application. The first time he went through checker tool it 
came back that Mr M was not eligible for the card. Mr M then went through the checker tool 
again, but this time, some of the information he input was different. The second attempt at 
the checker tool came back stating that Mr M had been pre-approved for a credit card.
After this, I can see Mr M went ahead with the full application, using the same information he 
had input in the second Card Checker application. Mr M wasnt given an answer on his 
application straight away because it needed to be checked by a different team. But once it 
had been considered by this team Mr Ms application was declined.
Looking at the underwriting information I have seen from Virgin, there were a number of 
reasons as to why Mr Ms application was declined. Virgin have asked that I dont disclose 
this information to Mr M because it is commercially sensitive. But having read it, I think Virgin 
have fairly declined Mr Ms application  even after it initially pre-approved him.I wont be disclosing Virgins internal data as to why it declined Mr Ms application. But, as 
Ive already said, there were inconsistencies in the information Mr M submitted through the 
Card Checker tool. From what Ive seen, these inconsistencies dont appear to by typing 
errors as theyre significantly different to what was typed in first time. And so, I think for this 
reason alone, it would be fair for Virgin to decline Mr Ms application.
So it follows that I cant say that Virgin unfairly declined Mr Ms application. Or that Mr M was 
misled into completing the full application and in turn allowing Virgin to carry out a full credit 
search.
Virgin has a responsibility to ensure that the information it provides to the credit reference 
agencies is correct. And because I dont think Virgin has done anything wrong in carrying out 
a credit check Im not going to tell it to arrange for the credit search to be removed from his 
file. And Im not going to ask it to provide Mr M with a credit card.
Virgin has offered Mr M £50 for the service it provided him with. Im not going to ask Virgin to 
do anything more than this.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision to say they have nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party had anything further to add to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change any part of it. And so my decision remains the same in that I wont be 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman