DRN-3843230
The complaint
Mr T complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to switch his
pension fund.
What happened
Mr Ts pension was invested in Avivas Pension Assured (PA) fund. In May 2018, when Mr T
reached age 55, Aviva switched his pension from the PA fund into the Deposit fund.
In 2021, Mr T learnt that Aviva had made the switch into the Deposit fund. He didnt think this
fund was appropriate for him, and so in September 2021 Mr T transferred his pension to a
fund (that Ill call Fund Z) through an existing pension scheme he held with a former
employer.
Mr T complained to Aviva about its decision to switch his units to the Deposit fund. He said 
he had spoken with Aviva in April 2018, and told it that he wanted to put back his retirement
and leave his pension where it was. He thought his pension would therefore remain invested
in the PA fund. He said Aviva should have advised him of the fund switch and also told him
of the Deposit fund charges.
Aviva explained that the PA fund was a closed fund, and said that if Mr T had wanted to
remain invested there, then six months notice would have needed to be given before his
nominated retirement age of 55. Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr T brought a complaint
to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ts complaint be upheld. He thought Aviva ought to have
advised Mr T in April 2018 that his pension couldnt remain invested in the PA fund, due to
the requirement for six months notice to be given when putting back retirement.
The investigator thought that if Mr T had been made aware of this, he would not have agreed
to switch his units into the Deposit fund as of May 2018, and would instead have arranged
for his pension to be transferred to the scheme with his former employer. However, Mr Ts
former employers pension scheme wasnt invested in Fund Z as of May 2018, and was
invested in a different fund. The investigator thought the draw for Mr T was moving his
pension to his former employers scheme once he knew the PA fund was no longer available
to him, regardless of where it was invested.
Our investigator therefore recommended that Aviva carry out a loss/gain calculation as 
though Mr Ts pension had been transferred to his former employers pension scheme as of
30 May 2018. He said if the difference was greater than the current value of Mr Ts pension,
then Aviva should compensate Mr T for this.
Aviva didnt accept our investigators recommendations. It said the statements Mr T had
been sent in June 2018, and then 2019, 2021 and 2021 had made him aware that he was
invested in the Deposit fund.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2022. Heres what I said:
Aviva has provided this service with a Guide to investing in the Pension Assured Fund. 
This was written in 2016 and says:
As long as there are more than six months to your chosen retirement date, you can 
put back your retirement and remain invested in the Pension Assured FundIf you 
choose to put back your retirement date within six months of the original date, you 
cannot remain invested in the Pension Assured Fund. When you reach your original 
retirement date, all Pension Assured Fund units, which are guaranteed to be worth 
£1, will be switched to another investment fund of your choice. If you do not choose 
another fund we will switch them to a deposit fund.
The six-month notification period wasnt included in the original terms and conditions, and I
havent seen any evidence that Aviva gave Mr T the above guide from 2016. Therefore, as
far as I can tell, Mr T was not aware of the requirement to give six months notice if he
wanted to remain invested in the Pension Assured fund. Given how important this
information was, I think Aviva ought to have brought it to Mr Ts attention.
Aviva wrote to Mr T in December 2017 to remind him that his retirement date was 30 May
2018, and to ask him to think about what he wanted to do next. The letter explained that
Mr T didnt need to start taking benefits, and there were a number of options available to
him. It didnt explain that he needed to give six months notice if he wanted to remain
invested in the PA fund. Though even if it had done, it would have been too late for Mr T to
give the required notice.
Aviva again wrote to Mr T in April 2018 and referred him to the information it had sent him in
December 2017. Mr T then called Aviva about his pension.
Ive listened to this call. Mr T explained he wanted to leave his pension where it was for a
few years. Aviva confirmed he did not need to do anything, because once his nominated
retirement age of 55 had passed, Aviva would automatically put back his retirement to age
75.
Aviva did not advise Mr T during this call that his units would automatically switch from the
PA fund to the Deposit fund. Though again, even if it had done, it would have been too late
for Mr T to remain invested in the PA fund.
Based on the April 2018 phone call, its apparent that Mr T wanted to remain invested in the
PA fund after his nominated retirement age of 55. I think Aviva was at fault for not making
Mr T aware that he needed to give six months notice if he wanted to do this.
To put matters right, Id normally expect Aviva to place Mr T back in the position he would
have been, had he remained invested in the PA fund. However, I also need to think about
whether Mr T would have still transferred his pension in 2021 had he remained invested in
the PA fund.
Mr T says he noticed in 2021 that his pension had gone down. After looking into this further,
he realised at that point that the switch into the Deposit fund had taken place in 2018. He
said he knew the Deposit fund was not appropriate for long-term investment, and so he
made the decision to transfer to another pension scheme he held with a former employer.
Aviva has compared the value of the policy that Mr T transferred in 2021, and what the value
would have been at that time if he had remained invested in the PA fund. It found that Mr T
was £476.58 better off as a result of being invested in the Deposit fund between 2018 and
2021.Given that Mr T was concerned about the reduction to his pension between 2018 and 2021, I
think he would have been even more concerned if he had remained invested in the PA fund.
I say that because his pension would have been nearly £500 less than the actual value in
2021.
Taking this into account, and whilst I cant be certain about what would have happened at
the time, I think its likely that Mr T would have still chosen to transfer his pension in 2021
even if he had remained invested in the PA fund. This is further supported by the fact there
were several other funds available with Aviva which were appropriate for long-term
investment, but Mr T still chose to transfer his pension elsewhere.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr T didnt suffer a financial loss due to Avivas actions.
I do think that Aviva caused Mr T unnecessary confusion and inconvenience as a result of
transferring his units into the Deposit fund. However, he is nearly £500 better off as a result
of this. I therefore dont intend to require Aviva to pay him additional compensation for this,
as any award I might have made would have been less than this amount.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made my final 
decision.
Aviva didnt provide any further comments. 
Mr T responded with the following points:
His complaint was that he was charged for something he was not informed about, did 
not request, and was inappropriate for his financial aims.
He wanted a refund of the management charges that Aviva applied for the Deposit 
fund.
Avivas figure of £476.58 was based on him remaining in the PA fund, which he did 
not ask for and the parties agreed he would not be able to do. 
Whilst he accepts that any fund he would have moved to would have some type of 
management charge, he would have been aware of this, and made sure that the fund 
aims aligned with his own.
He says the loss in the PA fund would not have triggered him to move his funds from 
Aviva, as his sole motivation for doing so was that he wanted them in a long-term 
fund that presented good value. He has pointed out that he has another pension fund 
invested in Avivas PA fund (with a different maturity date) but he has not withdrawn 
the money from there. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain that, when a financial business makes an error, this service will 
aim to place the consumer back in the position they would have been (as far as possible) if 
not for the error.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Aviva ought to have told Mr T that he needed to 
give at least six months notice if he wanted to remain invested in the PA fund after his 
nominated retirement age of 55. I thought it was apparent from Mr Ts phone call with Aviva 
in April 2018, that he had wanted to remain invested in the PA fund after this time. I therefore explained that I would normally expect Aviva to place Mr T back in the position he 
would have been, had he remained invested in the PA fund. However, Aviva had worked out 
that Mr T was actually £476.58 better off as a result of being invested in the Deposit fund, 
rather than the PA fund. I note that the management charges were either taken into account 
when Aviva worked out the price of the investment, or were taken from the policy directly as 
a reduction in the number of units. Therefore, it seems the figure of £476.58 would have 
taken the management charges into account, yet Mr T was still better off as a result of 
Avivas error.
Although Mr T wants his management charges refunded for being invested in the Deposit 
fund, this would not be fair. He cannot benefit from Avivas mistake and also be refunded 
charges.
Avivas calculation of £476.58 was based on the figures up to the date Mr T transferred his 
pension elsewhere. I therefore considered why Mr T transferred his pension to see if he had 
lost out due to this. It is not possible to be sure exactly what Mr T wouldve done had the 
error with the PA fund not occurred. Though Mr T cannot be put back into the PA fund now 
in any event, even if that is what he desired. 
Mr T transferred his pension due to his unhappiness with the Deposit fund, but this in fact 
outperformed the PA fund over the same time period. So I dont think it is unreasonable to 
think he wouldve done the same had he still been in the PA fund. Im therefore satisfied that 
Mr T gained due to Avivas error and so there is no financial loss to put right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman