DRN-2686637
The complaint
S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC relied on an inflated valuation in making a lending 
decision leading S to believe that the price it bought the property for was reasonable, 
resulting in negative equity and insolvency.
What happened
In December 2005, S was offered the opportunity to purchase the freehold of a public house 
and approached Lloyds for funding. Lloyds got a valuation in February 2006 which valued 
the property at £725,000 on a bricks and mortar basis and £800,000 as a going concern. S 
purchased the property for £800,000 in May 2006 with a loan of £605,000 from the bank.
Since then S has traded from the property meeting all the banks repayments on time. S also 
made a number of improvements and converted one of the outbuildings into a house for the 
owners family for £50,000. S says this outbuilding may have had a value of £25,000 which 
would reduce the bricks and mortar valuation of the property to £700,000. 
S approached Lloyds in 2018 for potential re-financing in order to purchase another property 
and Lloyds instructed a different valuer. The valuation of the public house was £275,000 and 
the converted house was £375,000. So, S says that according to the valuations, the public 
house had reduced in value by 64.7% over the period. S says that according to a report from 
a national firm of estate agents, average prices of freehold pubs reduced only by 13.4% over 
the period. S says that one of the two valuations must be incorrect and either way S has 
suffered as a result. Lloyds says that the valuations are not comparing like with like. It says 
that the first valuation was before the financial crisis and based on an immediate sale and 
the second based on the property being sold within six months. It did offer S £100 for its late 
response to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that Lloyds had done anything wrong. S disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S believes that one of two valuation of his public house is incorrect. The evidence in support 
of that is a chart showing that the average sale price of all freehold pub sales fell 
substantially less than that of this public house. The chart shows the average price and 
clearly there will be public houses that sell well below the average and others well below the 
average. I dont believe that this chart tells me whether these particular valuations are 
incorrect and isnt evidence that they are. S has produced no alternative evidence of what 
the valuation in 2006 or in 2018 should have been in order to establish that either was wrong
But, in any case, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to conclude that Lloyds had 
done something wrong. Ss complaint is about the valuation of the property. But Lloyds didnt 
perform the valuation. It appointed suitably qualified surveyors who have produced detailed 
valuations. Both valuations were carried out by members of a recognised professional body, 
not by Lloyds. S says that the valuers were on Lloyds panel which may indicate a bias 
towards Lloyds and a conflict with the valuers independence. Lloyds may have a quality 
assessment process to determine what surveyors are on their panel but that should not 
compromise the professional independence of the surveyors who are regulated by a 
professional body. In any case any suggestion of bias should be directed to the valuers and 
not to Lloyds.
So, although I understand Ss concerns with the disparity in the figures over the period, I 
cant say that Lloyds has done anything wrong. I appreciate from what Ive read that S has 
worked hard to improve the business and is naturally disappointed with the valuation 
received. But any issues with the valuations arent the fault of Lloyds. So, I cant fairy uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman