DRN-4456881
Complaint
Mrs C has complained about a credit card Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
provided to her. She says it ought to have been apparent that she already had a lot of 
existing debt and so she shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Mrs C is also complaining about the decision to provide her with an overdraft. But weve 
explained that were looking at that complaint separately. So this decision is only looking at 
whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when providing Mrs C with her credit card.
Nationwide provided Mrs C with a credit card with an initial limit of £8,500.00 in March 2018. 
The credit limit on Mrs Cs credit card wasnt ever increased.
When it investigated Mrs Cs complaint, Nationwide agreed that Mrs C entered into financial 
difficulty in June 2022. And as a result it agreed to refund all of the interest and charges 
added to Mrs Cs account from this point onwards. Mrs C was dissatisfied at Nationwides 
offer and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs C and Nationwide had told us. And he thought 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong or treated when initially offering Mrs C her credit 
card. So he thought what Nationwide had already do to put things right was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and didnt think that it needed to do anything more. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Im therefore 
satisfied that what Nationwide has already done is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and Im not requiring it to do anything further. Ill explain why thats the case in a bit more 
detail.
Nationwide needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwide says it agreed to provide Mrs C with a credit card after it carried out a credit 
search and obtained information about her income. The information obtained suggested that 
Mrs C had some existing debts but these were well managed and reasonable in comparison 
to her income. In Nationwides view, the information obtained indicated that Mrs C would be 
able to make the monthly repayments due for this credit card. 
On the other hand Mrs C says that her credit limit shouldnt have been increased.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mrs C was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Nationwide was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£8,500.00 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. A 
credit limit of £8,500.00 wasnt small but it didnt require huge monthly payments in order to 
clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Nationwides credit check did indicate that Mrs C did have some debts. But its fair to say 
that these were being well managed. Indeed the information Nationwide relied on suggests 
that Mrs C had total unsecured debts of around £23,000.00 and this wasnt unreasonable 
compared to Mrs Cs declared income at the time. 
Given the amount of the likely monthly payments, Mrs Cs existing debts and the total 
amount of funds shes likely to have been in receipt of, I dont think that Nationwide needed 
to do more here. I say this particularly as Mrs C was transferring an existing credit card 
balance on to this account. And in doing so she was likely to be paying less interest than she 
would have done had the balance stayed where it was. 
For the sake of completeness, even if I were to agree that more needed to be done, at the 
absolute most it could be argued that Nationwide needed to obtain more on Mrs Cs actual 
living costs, rather than rely on an estimate of this at the time of the limit increase. But I dont 
think that Nationwide would have made a different decision even if it had asked Mrs C for 
more information. 
I say this because Ive not seen anything that clearly shows me that when Mrs Cs 
committed non-discretionary regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from what she received, she did not have the funds to make a sustainable 
repayment for this credit card. So, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude 
that Nationwide wouldnt have lent even if it had tried to find out more about her 
circumstances at this time. 
I accept that the information Ive been provided with may not fully show the extent of Mrs Cs 
position. And its fair to say that her employment circumstances did change drastically in 
2021. Im sorry to hear that Mrs C has gone through a difficult time. But it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that Nationwide should have known this 
would happen. 
I can only judge Nationwide against what it knew or ought to have known at the time it 
decided to provide this credit card. This is especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks were carried out and even if more had been done this would not have 
prevented Nationwide from offering this card to begin with. 
So overall while I can understand Mrs Cs sentiments and I sympathise with her current 
position, I dont think that Nationwide treated Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably when providing  
her with a credit card. And Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Im therefore satisfied that what Nationwide has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable 
and Im not requiring it to do anything further. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like Nationwide of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration in relation to the outstanding balance on Mrs Cs account 
and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint and I therefore do not 
require it to do anything more or anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman