DRN-1713600
The complaint
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) returned a third partys 
payment made to Mr Es credit card account in error, without his authority.
What happened
In October 2019, another bank acting on behalf of a third party, who Ill refer to as P, made 
two separate payments of £5,000 into Mr Es account on the same day followed by a further 
payment of over £6,500 the next day. These payments put Mr Es Barclaycard account in 
credit by over £3,500. Mr E says he confirmed with Barclaycard that two payments of £5,000 
had been paid into his account, following which he undertook purchases and services to the 
amount of £10,000. 
Ps bank contacted Barclaycard via the faster payments service soon after and said that a 
duplicate payment of £5,000 had been made in error. Barclaycard wrote to Mr E on 
4 November 2019 to tell him Ps bank had transferred £5,000 by mistake. Barclaycard said if 
it didnt hear from Mr E by 25 November 2019, it would assume it had his consent to return 
the funds. 
Mr E phoned Barclaycard on 19 November 2019. He said he was calling about the £5,000 
extra paid into his account and that he didnt give authority for it to be returned to Ps 
account. Mr E said It is correct, its fine, let it stay on my card. Barclaycard checked with 
Mr E that he wasnt willing to allow the funds to be returned and asked him for a reason. 
Mr E didnt give a reason and again said let it stay on my card. Barclaycard said that the 
funds had been deposited by mistake to which Mr E responded, Its fine, I dont authorise. 
Barclaycard said it would update its system to that effect. Despite Mr Es response, 
Barclaycard did return the payment. 
Mr E complained to Barclaycard. Barclaycard responded and it upheld his complaint on the 
basis it had taken £5,000 out of his account when Mr E had specifically said he didnt want 
Barclaycard to do that. Barclaycard said it tried to retrieve the payment via the faster 
payments service, but the service said it couldnt return the payment because it was a 
duplicate. Barclaycard gave Mr E £150 compensation for the stress caused by its error 
and told Mr E he could contact our service if he wasnt happy. 
Mr E complained to us. He said Barclaycard shouldnt have taken money from his account 
without his consent, particularly as hed made purchases of £10,000. He doesnt think its fair 
hes now being charged interest because he cant pay his remaining balance off in full. 
When it provided its comments to us, Barclaycard said it was satisfied it had made the right 
decision to return the funds because Mr Es account was returned to the position it should 
have been in. But it accepted its actions caused Mr E frustration, as he hadnt consented to 
Barclaycard returning the payment. Barclaycard also confirmed it suspended interest for 
January 2020 as a goodwill gesture. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and noted Mr E had received two payments of 
£5,000 and another payment of over £6,500 from Ps bank a day later. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard made a mistake in letting Mr E think if he didnt consent, he could keep the additional £5,000 paid in error. The investigator said that if Barclaycard hadnt returned 
the extra £5,000, it would be committing fraud on Mr Es behalf. The investigator felt 
Barclaycards compensation payment of £150 was fair in the circumstances, as was its 
decision to freeze interest on Mr Es account for January 2020. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. Mr E said that despite Barclaycard agreeing not to return the duplicate payment if 
he made contact by a certain date, it did so anyway. Mr E said hes now out of pocket on the 
basis of the assurance hed been given, so he expected his rights to be protected by 
Barclaycard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr E thinks Barclaycard was wrong to return the additional £5,000 paid into his 
account when he didnt agree to that. And he holds Barclaycard responsible for the financial 
loss he says hes now suffering. 
So, Ive thought about whether Barclaycard handled this situation appropriately, particularly 
given the lack of consent from Mr E to return the funds paid in error.
Mr E indicated he was expecting two payments of £5,000 into his account. I havent seen 
any evidence to show what was agreed between Mr E and P, but I have no reason to doubt 
Mr Es account of what he expected to happen. 
But despite what he expected, Ive seen that over two days Ps bank made three payments 
totalling over £16,500 into Mr Es account. Of those, there were two separate payments of 
£5,000 made on the same day. When it realised a duplicate payment of £5,000 had been 
made, Ps bank asked Barclaycard to return one of the payments. 
Barclaycard told Mr E that if it didnt hear from him by 25 November, it would assume hed 
consented to one of the payments being returned. And it seems Mr E thinks that because he 
contacted Barclaycard before the deadline and said he didnt agree, hed be able to keep the 
money.  And so, because Barclaycard did return the payment despite the lack of consent 
from Mr E, he says hes lost out financially by £5,000.
And I think this is where things went wrong in terms of Barclaycards handling of this 
situation. Im satisfied it was fair for Barclaycard to contact Mr E when it became aware of 
the mistake on his account and to ask him for his consent, in case Mr E could demonstrate 
that he was entitled to all of the funds paid in.  
Theres no evidence to suggest Mr E was entitled to all of the funds. He indicated he was 
expecting two payments of £5,000 to be deposited, so Im satisfied from what Ive seen that 
he received at least that amount - In fact he received more - even once the mistake had 
been corrected. But that said, I do think Barclaycard could have taken more time to address 
the points Mr E made when he phoned. Ill explain why. 
When discussing the error, Ive heard from the call recording that Mr E said he was ringing 
about the extra payment, and that it is correct- let it stay in my account. But later in the call, 
he seemed to suggest it was more a question of him not agreeing to the funds being 
returned rather than him believing he was entitled to the extra £5,000. And when asked, he 
didnt give a reason why he didnt want the funds returned other than he didnt consent to 
Barclaycard doing that. At this point, I think Barclaycard should have asked Mr E why he thought the amount deposited was correct and how much he was expecting to receive. 
And, a quick look at the account statement would have shown Mr E had received more than 
he was expecting, even if some of it were returned. But, if Mr E had insisted he was entitled 
to everything paid in, Barclaycard could have agreed to look into the matter further. Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest it did any of this.  
And whilst I think it was preferable for Barclaycard to have Mr Es consent, in the absence of 
evidence that Mr E was entitled to the funds in question, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclaycard to return them. However, I think Barclaycard should also have told Mr E that 
regardless of whether he consented, it was likely to return the duplicate payment anyway 
because it shouldnt have been made. But Barclaycard didnt do that either. So, that gave 
Mr E the impression that if he didnt consent, he was entitled to keep the whole amount paid 
in. And I think Barclaycard mismanaged Mr Es expectations by not clearly explaining what 
was likely to happen.
Mr E says that he lost out financially when Barclaycard returned the duplicate payment and 
that his rights should be protected because of the mistake. From what hes said, it seems 
that because Barclaycard returned the payment despite him not consenting, Mr E expects 
Barclaycard to put him back in the position he thinks he should have been in as he 
undertook purchases and services to the amount of £10,000.
Ive thought about what Mr E said, but I dont agree. I can see from Mr Es early October 
2019 statement that the balance outstanding is about £11,500. And its possible that the 
previous months expenditure was linked to the payments Mr E expected to get from P later 
in October 2019. When Ps bank made three payments into Mr Es account, it put the 
account in credit for a short time. I havent seen any evidence from the following months 
statement to show Mr E had already spent the extra £5,000 he thought he had. And whilst it 
may be that Mr E was intending to spend the extra amount - even if he hadnt done so 
already - I dont think the two things are the same.  
In any event, Mr E expected to get two payments from P. And thats what he had once the 
duplicate payment was returned. Although as I said earlier, Mr E actually received more than 
£10,000 between the two payments. So, I think Mr E was at least returned to the position he 
would have been in had it not been for the error. And whilst I appreciate Mr E might have 
expected to keep everything paid in because he hadnt consented to money being returned, I 
dont agree that means hes suffered a financial loss when it was. 
As Ive said, Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr E was entitled to all three payments. 
So, whilst I accept Barclaycard should have managed his expectations better, I dont think it 
would be fair for Mr E to benefit from the mistake Ps bank made. Nor do I think Barclaycard 
is responsible for any interest and charges Mr E incurred because he might have spent more 
on his account than he otherwise would have done.  
Im satisfied Barclaycards compensation payment of £150 recognises the disappointment 
Mr E suffered when his expectations werent properly managed, and I dont think 
Barclaycard needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I am aware that Barclays Bank UK PLC have paid Mr E £150. I conclude that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC dont 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.Amanda Scott
Ombudsman