DRN-4454179
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with a 
claim she made on her home insurance policy. 
Mrs Ps daughter has brought this complaint on her behalf but for ease Ill refer to Mrs P 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mrs P has home insurance with Lloyds. 
Mrs P is vulnerable with significant mobility issues. She lives alone and walks with the aid of 
a walker. Mrs P says these were considered or factored in the handling of the claim. 
At the beginning of June 2022 Mrs P had a leak in her kitchen. She reported it to her insurer 
who sent out a leak detection engineer. It transpired the leak was coming from under the 
concrete floor. 
Mrs P went back and forth with Lloyds about whether she was covered for the work or not. 
Once it was established that cover was in place Lloyds referred the matter to a surveyor to 
scope the work. Mrs P then had to deal with a number of different people trying to get the 
repairs completed. 
There were several delays to the work which meant Mrs P was having to boil water and 
carry the kettle to the bathroom to wash up and bathe. This was difficult given the mobility 
issues.
Mrs P was left without hot water for several weeks and her kitchen was blocked by cabinets 
and debris during the works. She was left without access to washing and cooking facilities 
for weeks. Mrs Ps fire exit was blocked by the cabinets and debris and so there was only 
one way in and out of the property.  
In November 2022 the work to reinstate the kitchen commenced, five months after the initial 
leak. Mrs P was offered a temporary kitchen but wasnt sure it was safe due to her mobility 
issues. She asked for further information regarding the temporary kitchen but says it wasnt 
forthcoming. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with the service she received so she complained to Lloyds. Lloyds said 
it agreed there were delays and further issues with the water supply. It said the time it took to 
collect the kitchen units was longer than expected. Lloyds also accepted the drying process 
was prolonged due to a leak from a pipe it had previously repaired. So it apologised for the 
inconvenience and awarded Mrs P £450 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds didnt agree the back door was obstructed by the units or that Mrs P didnt have 
access to the oven and microwave. Lloyds said there was a level of inconvenience due to 
the sink not being accessible but it had made suggestions for ways this could be minimised 
but these were rejected. 
Mrs P disagreed with Lloyds. She said moving the kitchen units to another room wasnt 
possible because of space. Furniture would have had to be moved around and Mrs P needs 
the space to walk since she uses a walker. Mrs P also says the garage was full so there was 
no space for the units to be stored there. Because Mrs P didnt agree she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her. She said she didnt think Lloyds had acted fairly. 
She said she thought it hadnt taken her specific needs into consideration when dealing with 
the claim and hadnt offered alternative accommodation for the duration of the claim. The 
investigator said the level of compensation should be increased to £750, plus a disturbance 
allowance of £430 based on the industry standard of £10 per day. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the outcome. She said she was without cooking facilities and hot 
water and proper access in and around her home for several months. This had a substantial 
impact on her health and wellbeing given her age and vulnerabilities. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might be best resolved. I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint  and for much the same reasons given by 
the investigator. Ive explained my rationale below, but before I do I want to acknowledge 
that Ive summarised events in my own words and in far less detail than whats been 
provided to me. If Ive not mentioned anything its not because I havent considered it  Ive 
carefully reviewed all the evidence submitted by both parties. Instead Ive focussed on the 
key elements of the timeline and what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  in line with 
our remit as a quick and informal alternative to the courts. No discourtesy is meant by that, 
nor is it my intention to minimise in any way what Mrs P went through. 
A claim of this nature, where restoration works were required in the key areas of the home, 
was always likely to be a very disruptive and stressful experience for Mrs P. Ultimately the 
leak resulted in the damage to Mrs Ps kitchen. But Ive had to decide what impact Lloyds 
has caused over and above what might reasonably be expected, through its handling of the 
claim. Bearing that in mind its my intention to uphold the complaint.
Having considered the information available to me I think Lloyds needs to pay Mrs P more 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. But not to the level Mrs P 
has indicated to our service. Ive considered Mrs Ps comments carefully about why she 
feels further compensation payments are due. And whilst her submission goes into some 
detail about the events which occurred I can only consider compensation for avoidable 
delays, and distress or inconvenience which were as a result of Lloyds action, and which 
impacted Mrs P directly. I have no power to consider the impact or costs to Mrs Ps family, or 
anyone who isnt a named policyholder. 
Delays 
Based on everything Ive seen during the claim between June 2022 and November 2022 its 
clear there have been avoidable delays by Lloyds in dealing with this claim. For the most 
part this can be attributed to length of time taken for the leak detection contractor to attend, 
the time taken for the site visit to complete the scope of repairs, and the issues with the further leak and extra time taken to dry out the property. There was confusion and delay over 
when the kitchen units would be collected. 
On review of the timeline of events I think Lloyds should have been able to establish and 
repair the fault much sooner than it did. It should also have taken Mrs Ps circumstances into 
account in its handling of the claim and I cant see it did this. Its clear the delays caused 
significant inconvenience for Mrs P as she was without hot water for a prolonged period. I 
think the situation would also have caused her a lot of worry and day to day disruption. 
This should have been better monitored by Lloyds given that Mrs P was a vulnerable 
consumer. And its arguable that Mrs Ps circumstances shouldve put Lloyds on notice from 
the first notification of loss call. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance for businesses on the fair treatment of 
vulnerable consumer states, Firms should take additional care to ensure they meet the 
needs of consumers at the greatest of harmfirms should also act early to prevent risk of 
harm emerging or growing.
The guidance also states, firms should be asking themselves what types of harm or 
disadvantage their customers may be vulnerable to, and how their own actions can increase 
or reduce the risk of harm. 
Ive thought about how this applies in the circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P has 
explained she was due to have hip surgery and had issues with her mobility. She also lived 
alone. But Lloyds went back and forth with Mrs P on whether she had cover in place. And its 
probable that this initial delay added to the overall length of the claim and this had a knock-
on effect to the later handling of the claim. 
Overall Im not persuaded Lloyds has given sufficient consideration to Mrs Ps circumstances 
in its offer of compensation. So I find an additional payment of £750 would fairly reflect the 
heightened distress and upset caused to Mrs P. 
Alternative accommodation 
I agree with the investigators findings in respect of the alternative accommodation. There is 
no evidence on the file to suggest alternative accommodation was offered. In the 
circumstances I would have expected Lloyds to discuss alternative accommodation with Mrs 
P given she was without hot water or kitchen facilities. The investigator has suggested a 
payment of £430 by way of a disturbance allowance for the time Mrs P was without access 
to her kitchen and hot water and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. The calculation is 
based on industry standard rates of payment for disturbance allowance.
Compensation 
I think having various tradespeople visiting on many different occasions was inconvenient 
and having to liaise with various parties had been added effort. Given the mobility issues Mrs 
P described, this matter would have caused her greater inconvenience and distress. Its 
clear from Mrs Ps testimony that the matter had an impact on her quality of life. I accept that 
the situation had been distressing for Mrs P and had caused a serious amount of disruption 
to her daily life for many months. So I think on top of the disturbance allowance 
recommended by the investigator I think Lloyds should pay total compensation of £1,500 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
I understand Lloyds has recently sent Mrs P £1,180 so I intend to direct it to pay the 
remaining amount of £750.My decision is likely to be for Lloyds to pay Mrs P £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused plus £430 by way of disturbance allowance. 
Response to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Lloyds accepted the findings in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact Lloyds agreed with the findings set out in the provisional decision (which 
Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), Im satisfied it represents 
an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out Im upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to;
Pay Mrs P £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused less any amount 
already paid
Pay Mrs P £430 by way of disturbance allowance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman