DRN-3190619
The complaint
Ms B and Mr G are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim for cutting
short their holiday under their travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its
behalf.
What happened
Ms B and Mr G had the benefit of an annual multi-trip, deluxe cruise, travel insurance policy,
underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy).
The policy covered the period 12 November 2019 and 11 November 2020. Ms B and Mr G
arranged a trip abroad to take place between early February 2020 and late April 2020 -
which included travel to multiple countries.
In March 2020, Ms B and Mr G were visiting a country, which Ill call C. They were due to
travel to an Island off mainland C on 19 March 2020 and then return to the mainland on 24
March 2020. They then planned to travel around mainland C for a further period.
Ms B and Mr G say that on18 March 2020 they were advised that C had put a number of
border restrictions in place and the movement of people had been severely restricted.
Theyve also provided evidence that with effect of 17/18 March 2020 the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) also strongly encouraged non-resident British nationals in C
to consider leaving the country.
As such, Ms B and Mr G say they had no alternative but to cut short their trip. On 18 March
2020 they reserved flights back to the UK, departing on 22 March 2020. Ms B and Mr G say
they tried to obtain authority from Great Lakes before paying for the return flights to UK. But
when they didnt hear back from them within time, they confirmed and paid for their flights
rather than risk losing them and being stranded in C.
After returning to the UK, Ms B and Mr G made a claim on the policy for their irrecoverable
expenses, including the costs of their return flights home.
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that the reason for Ms B and Mr G cutting short
their trip wasnt listed as an insured event under the relevant section of the policy.
However, as a gesture of goodwill, Great Lakes offered to pay £500 each to Ms B and Mr G
under the Catastrophe section of the policy. As this still left Ms B and Mr G with a
considerable shortfall of the monies theyd claimed, they brought a complaint to our Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said, although Ms B and Mr Gs claim
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, they thought it would be fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to re-assess the claim under the cutting your trip short section
of the policy. Thats because our investigator said Ms B and Mr G wouldnt have had any
cover under the policy if theyd remained abroad, but also had no cover if theyd cut their trip
short. Our investigator explained why they didnt think that was clear from the policy
documents.
Great Lakes didnt agree. So, Ms Bs and Mr Gs complaint was referred to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision in November 2021, explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Ms B and Mr Gs complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand Ms B and Mr G found themselves in an entirely unprecedented situation which
was outside of their control. However, its also the case that no insurance policy covers
every eventuality. And insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in
return for the premium paid for a policy.
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Ms B and Mr G are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Did Great Lakes unfairly decline the claim?
Page 15 of the policy (under the heading: Cutting Short Your Trip) provides for Great Lakes
to pay certain costs if a policyholders trip is cut short due to one of the following listed,
insured reasons:
-an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or 
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
-you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or 
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or 
advisory capacity).
-accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during 
your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence 
is required by the Police in connection with such events.
-complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion.
-you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to loss 
or theft of your passport, or that of a travelling companion.
-your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable due 
to fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or 
civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police requesting 
your presence following a burglary or attempted burglary.
Ms B and Mr Gs trip wasnt cut short for any of the reasons listed above. So, under the
policy, their claim isnt covered. I know theyve said that there was an unforeseen illness
(namely Covid-19) which resulted in them having to cut short their trip, but Ive seen nothing
which supports their trip being cut short due to Ms B or Mr G - or anyone with whom theyd
arranged to stay with - contracting Covid-19.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Ms B and Mr Gs insurance policy, but I dont
think there was any cover in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Section 17 of the policy (at page 29) sets out cover for Catastrophe. And the policy provides
for a benefit of up to £500 per person to be paid to allow a policyholder to continue with their
holiday if their accommodation is affected by stipulated issues such as an infectious disease.
Ms B and Mr G didnt continue with their holiday  they returned home  but Great Lakeshas offered them a total of £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill under this section of cover, which
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As our investigator said in their view dated 16 July 2021, the policy also contained a number
of general exclusions applicable to all sections of the policy  including cutting short the
policyholders trip.
The general exclusions relating to all sections of the policy are set out at pages 38-40.
General exclusion 23 (set out at page 39) says the policy wont cover:
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing
body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
The FCO did advise against all but essential international travel on 17 March 2020. And on
17/18 March 2020, the FCO strongly encouraged non-resident British nationals in C to
consider leaving C.
So, its possible Ms B and Mr Gs policy might not have provided cover if theyd remained in
C against FCO advice, as our investigator concluded. And thats why our investigator
concluded this left Ms B and Mr G in an unfair position.
If I accept that the policy may not have provided cover if they remained abroad after the FCO
had issued their advice, there may be some limited situations where I might think it was fair
and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the policy
terms and conditions. Particularly in circumstances when I didnt think an insurer had clearly
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCO advice and/or claims for remaining abroad when FCO advice changed.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to do so here.
Thats because Page 17 sets out what isnt covered under the curtailment section of the
policy. Clause 16 says the following isnt covered:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country or delay or amendment of
the booked trip due to Government action.
I think that exclusion is very relevant to the circumstances of this complaint. And Ill refer to it
as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.
Im satisfied Ms B and Mr G amended their trip by cutting it short and returning to the UK. Im
also satisfied that the amendment of their trip was as a result of Government action; namely
the announcement from Cs Government on 16 March 2020 that it will be closing its borders
to international travellers with effect of 18 March 2020 (and the closing of the airport of the
island they were due to travel to on 17 March 2020). Further, the FCO had issued a strong
recommendation to consider leaving C on 17/18 March 2020.
So, not only is the reason why Ms B and Mr Gs trip was cut short not covered as a listed,
insured event under the policy, I think its likely the prohibitive regulations exclusion that Ive 
outlined above applies to the circumstances of their claim.
I know this will come as a huge disappointment to Ms B and Mr G especially given the value
of their claim, but I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly declined the claim as it isnt covered
under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Other issuesI accept Ms B and Mr G contacted Great Lakes on 18 March 2020 to discuss cutting short
their trip short and returning to the UK on flights theyd already reserved but were yet to pay
for. They say they initially had trouble getting through to Great Lakes as its phone lines were
busy. But that they did manage to eventually speak to a representative of Great Lakes who
said theyd call them back within an hour as this is how long the flights were being held for
them.
Although Great Lakes cant locate any recordings of any calls with Ms B and Mr G that day,
Im satisfied that Ms B and Mr G have given a plausible and consistent account about what
happened. Further, Great Lakes accept that a case was opened that day. Ive also seen an
email from Great Lakes representative to Ms B dated 18 March 2020 reflecting that a
manager was reviewing coverage and an update would be provided soon.
When that call didnt materialise  and worried that theyd lose the flights unless they
confirmed them  I can understand why Ms B and Mr G went ahead and paid for the flights.
It was after the flights had been paid for that Ms B and Ms G received a call back and that
was from the medical emergency assistance team. Ms B and Ms G were then advised to
contact the claims team. They have questioned  reasonably in my view  why they werent
told this initially.
Ive taken into consideration the unprecedented situation at the time and the likelihood that
Great Lakes wouldve been receiving a number of excess calls around that time due to the
Covid-19 pandemic and FCO advice. But I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Great
Lakes to have promptly called Ms B and Mr G back as promised. And to have told Ms B and
Mr G at the outset to contact the claims team for further assistance.
However, Im persuaded that had Ms B and Mr G received a call back before theyd paid for
their flights  of if theyd been able to speak to the claims team before doing so - its unlikely
that Great Lakes wouldve given any definitive assurances that the costs of the return flights
wouldve been covered. Thats because in my experience insurers dont usually confirm
cover before a claim is made. Also given what theyve said about what was happening in the
country they were in, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that if Ms B and Mr G did
receive a call back along the lines theyd been promised they still wouldve gone ahead with
paying for the return flights to ensure they could get back to the UK  even if cover for the
flights hadnt been confirmed.
I accept that not receiving the call back before paying wouldve been disappointing for Ms B
and Mr G given the uncertain situation that was quickly evolving in the country they were in.
And this disappointment wouldve been compounded by being told that they needed to
speak to the claims department anyway.
I also know that Ms B and Mr G are unhappy with the way in which Great Lakes dealt with
their complaint  in particular that it didnt address all their complaint points when
responding. I can see why this wouldve also been frustrating for them.
However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award compensation to them for the
additional and unnecessary worry, disappointment and frustration Ms B and Mr G
experienced as a result of what Great Lakes did wrong here. As Ive set out above, Great
Lakes has offered to pay Ms B and Mr G £1,000 in total as a gesture of goodwill  which is
the total benefit theyd be entitled to had they made a successful claim under the
catastrophe section of the policy. Thats not something they were entitled to claim under the
terms of the catastrophe section.
Im satisfied that this amount is significantly more than any compensation Id be minded toaward Ms B and Mr G as compensation to reflect the additional and unnecessary worry,
disappointment and frustration they G experienced as a result of what Great Lakes did
wrong.
So, I dont think Great Lakes needs to do anything more.
Response to my provisional decision:
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or information. 
Great Lakes didnt object to my provisional decision. 
Ms B and Mr G raised a number of points in reply. In summary they said:
My provisional decision wasnt fair and reasonable. And I hadnt taken into account 
the wider nature of the worldwide events. Instead Id applied a strict and narrow 
interpretation of the policy which is inherently flawed due to its ambiguity.
Id ignored the reasons put forward by our investigator when recommending their 
complaint be upheld. 
The Association of British Insurers indicate that it would be reasonable for insurers to 
cover claims arising from Covid-19.
There has been a recent Court ruling which went in favour of business interruption 
insurance policyholders. This widened the scope of insurance policies which may 
now provide coverage for losses caused by Covid-19. 
They didnt cut short their trip and return to the UK because of prohibitive regulations 
of any country so the prohibitive regulations exclusion isnt relevant to their claim. 
They say it was the Covid-19 pandemic that prevented them from travelling on, not 
because of government action. 
There was only a recommendation made by the FCO for UK nationals to return to the 
UK on 17/18 March 2020. They werent ordered to return or ordered to leave the 
country they were visiting.
C closed its borders, but it didnt issue prohibitive regulations preventing them staying 
in the country.
The policy doesnt define prohibitive regulations or government action. Cancellation 
claims are covered under the policy if beneficiaries under the policy were unable to 
go on their trip due to FCO advice in prescribed circumstances. Its therefore logical 
to assume that FCO advice isnt considered government action or a prohibitive 
regulation.
Theyd sought to recover all costs and claimed on the policy as a last resort. Theyve 
demonstrated throughout that they have behaved fairly and reasonably.
Theyve also referred me to comments made by the Financial Conduct Authority and a large 
body of Ombudsman lore providing examples of what constitutes fairness in certain 
situations  as well as general comments made by the Chief Ombudsman of our Service.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the points raised by Ms B and Mr G in response to my provisional decision. I 
thank them for the time it mustve taken them to put their response together and for pointing 
out that the prohibitive regulations exclusion is at page 16 of the policy, not page 17. 
Having considered all their points  and I know this will come as a great disappointment to 
Ms B and Mr G  I remain satisfied that Great Lakes has fairly and reasonably declined their 
claim. And I dont uphold their complaint.
When provisionally deciding their complaint, I was aware of the recent Court case and 
Ombudsman lore theyve referred me to. Id also considered our investigators view and the 
reasons put forward when recommending the complaint be initially upheld. However, I have 
to consider each complaint given its individual circumstances  and that includes the terms 
and conditions of the policy Ms B and Mr G had the benefit of. 
Ms B and Mr G say they didnt cut short their trip UK because of prohibitive regulations of 
any country or Government action so the prohibitive regulations exclusion isnt relevant to 
their claim. They say they returned because of the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Ms B and Mr Gs claim form (question 16) asks them to please advise the reason for the 
curtailment of the trip. Its reflected that they responded: FCO advice regarding Covid-19. 
Further, when first submitting their claim to Great Lakes in April 2020, they included a 
covering letter which said the trip was curtailed due to the Covid-19 situation and advice 
from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. They go on to say: On 18th March whilst we 
were in [C] we were advised that a number of border restrictions were in place and that the 
movement of people was being severely restricted. Therefore, based on the local situation 
and advice from the UK FCO  we had no alternative to curtail our holiday.
Those reasons arent listed in the curtailment section of the policy as specific insured events. 
And whilst I appreciate what Ms B and Mr G say about the terms Government action and 
prohibitive regulations not being defined under the policy, Im satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable to interpret Government action to include the advice issued by the FCO in this 
complaint. 
Its possible that FCO advice doesnt constitute an order of the Government as Ms B and Mr 
G says. But I make no finding on that. Because the prohibitive regulations exclusion refers to 
Government action (as opposed to a government order) and I think an order and an action 
are very different things. The FCOs advice, strongly encouraging non-resident British 
nationals in C to consider leaving the country is action taken by part of the UK Government. 
And overall, Im satisfied that Government action  as set out in the prohibitive regulations 
exclusion - is broad enough to include FCO advice.  
Ms B and Mr G say that the cancellation section of the policy (as opposed to the curtailment 
section of their policy) does provide a claim to be made if the FCO issue advice against all, 
or all but essential, travel to the destination of the trip because of an earthquake, fire, flood 
or hurricane. They also point out that the prohibitive regulations exclusion applies to the 
cancellation section of the policy. The implication being that Government action cant include 
FCO advice otherwise the prohibitive regulations exclusion would apply. So, if someone made a claim under the policy because their trip was cancelled due to FCO advice against 
travel because of an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, it wouldnt be covered.
However, Im not persuaded that this means that Government action doesnt include advice 
issued by the FCO  part of the Government. The cancellation section provides for cover if a 
trip is cancelled due to FCO advice in prescribed circumstances. And as those 
circumstances are transparently set out as an insured event under the cancellation section, 
any claim made for those reasons are likely to override the prohibitive regulations exclusion. 
However, the prescribed circumstances set out in the cancellation section of the policy arent 
relevant here. Ms B and Mr G didnt cancel their trip  they cut it short. And they didnt cut it 
short because the FCO advised against travel to C  or to return to the UK from C - because 
of earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. 
In summary, the reason why Ms B and Mr Gs trip was cut short isnt covered as a listed,
insured event under the policy. And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
above, I think its likely the prohibitive regulations exclusion applies to the circumstances of 
their claim. Im satisfied Great Lakes fairly and reasonably declined their claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms B and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman