DRN-3020925
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent sufficiently 
compensated it for the impact of their delay when returning an international payment. 
In bringing this complaint, J is represented by its director who I refer to as Miss C.  
   
What happened
 In September 2020, using HSBCs Business Internet Banking facility, J made a payment of 
about $10,000 to a supplier abroad.  When making the payment, J shortened the name of 
the intended beneficiary because it was too long to fit within the field provided. As this did 
not match the beneficiarys full name on the account, the payment was rejected by the 
beneficiarys bank. 
In the three weeks that followed, Miss C sent a number of emails to HSBC in an attempt to 
find out what had happened to the payment. And because HSBC hadnt been able to provide 
any firm answers Miss C complained. She was unhappy the payment hadnt been received 
by Js supplier or returned to J. 
In November 2020 the funds were returned to HSBC from the beneficiarys bank and 10 
days later the bank credited the funds to Js account, less the $55 the beneficiarys bank 
deducted in charges. 
HSBC says it was Js error in abbreviating its suppliers name when sending the payment 
that caused it to be rejected in the first place. Nonetheless, they acknowledged they delayed 
returning the funds to J and that J was inconvenienced as a result. So, they agreed to make 
a series of payments to J, totalling £300 by way of compensation. 
J didnt think the compensation was adequate, but HSBC disagreed. HSBC said they 
returned the funds to J eight working days after they were received. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, J referred it to this service. 
After the complaint came to us, HSBC agreed to pay an extra £50, bringing the total 
compensation being offered up to £350. But J still didnt think that was enough. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC should be held responsible for the beneficiary banks 
decision to reject Js payment. However, they agreed that HSBC caused some avoidable 
delays which caused inconvenience to J and concluded that HSBCs offer of £350 is fair in 
relation to that.
J didnt agree. On its behalf Miss C said her consultancy charge out rate is £600 per hour. 
So, she believes HSBCs offer of compensation should reflect that rate. She says Js funds 
were missing for a number of weeks and she spent many hours trying to resolve the matter 
with HSBC.  
  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusion and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.   
 I do not think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for the rejection by the beneficiarys 
bank of the payment J made to its supplier. The reason this happened was because when 
making the payment, albeit for understandable reasons, J shortened the suppliers name. 
That being said, following the rejection of the payment it was reasonable for J to expect that 
the funds would be returned without unreasonable delay. 
Miss C has said she spent many hours communicating with HSBC in an attempt to get them 
to return Js funds. And, to that end I have seen a number of email exchanges between Miss 
C and HSBC beginning late October and throughout November 2020. In those email 
exchanges, Miss C sought clarification about what had happened to the payment. And she 
repeatedly chased HSBC for confirmation as to when the funds would be returned. She 
made clear the relationship with the supplier was becoming difficult because without the 
return of the funds J was not in a position to pay it. 
 
Miss C has told us the delay also caused distress to her and Js supplier. But above all, the 
reason Miss C doesnt think the that £350 the bank has offered is reasonable is because she 
believes that having regard to the time, she spent dealing with HSBC they should be offering 
compensation that matches her consultancy charge out rate. 
Its important to note, however, that this is Js complaint. That means I cannot consider any 
distress cause to Miss C personally as well as to Js supplier. Also, as a limited company J 
cannot suffer distress though it can be inconvenienced as a result of the banks actions or 
failures. Further, even in those instances, we wouldnt generally award compensation based 
on the directors hourly rate as Miss C would like to happen in this case. Instead we consider 
the overall impact the error had on the complainant. 
In light of what I have said above, I agree that HSBCs delay caused some avoidable 
inconvenience to J, especially as it had to chase the bank several times to find out the 
position regarding the payment.
.   
But after taking everything into account Im satisfied that the £350 offered by HSBC is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is subject to the deduction of any amount already paid, HSBC UK Bank 
PLC should pay £350 to J in full and final settlement of this complaint
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman