DRN-2893329
The complaint
Mr M complained that Valour Finance Limited, when it was trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) 
lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with Savvy as follows: 
loan start datepaid or not 
paidmonthly 
instalmentsloan amount instalment amount
127 June 2016 The loan is fully 
repaid 18 £750 £68.76
When Mr M first complained to Savvy he was mainly concerned about the cost of the loan 
and the way that Savvy had pursued collection. Savvy didnt uphold either of those complaint 
points and so Mr M brought his complaint to this service.  
Mr M told us that he had three main complaint points. In brief summary he said:
1.  the interest charged was unfair
2.  he was clearly struggling with major financial difficulties throughout and doesnt 
believe Savvy really understood or gave him proper help and time to sort out this 
difficult period
3.  loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. Mr M told us his credit 
file highlighted a lot of issues at the time of application including missed payments, 
late payments and repayment plans. He told us that he made so many credit 
applications prior to being accepted by Savvy that this should have shown a clear 
financial strain and desperation. As well as this, Mr M said the number of loans, credit 
cards and overdrafts he had at the time and in the past should have been very 
alarming.
When we contacted Savvy about this complaint, it took the opportunity to address the 
additional complaint Mr M had mentioned to us - that Savvy had provided him with an 
unaffordable loan. Savvy sent a final response letter explaining the checks it carried out 
before lending and said it still didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.   
Mr M didnt feel this response adequately answered his complaint. He said:
he had more than one loan with Savvy and this hasnt been addressed
due to Savvy lending to him irresponsibly he was put into severe financial hardship 
for a long period of time
his credit history of missed and late payments and declined applications should all 
have been warning signs.
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, he thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided, or the information Savvy 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Savvy shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr M had declared
Mr M didnt have any loan history with Savvy that shouldve alerted Savvy to any 
underlying financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator felt the loan had been fairly provided and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly he said that he has provided proof that 
the loan was unaffordable for him and he felt it was inconsistent and unfair not to uphold his 
complaint when another similar complaint was found in his favour. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Savvy was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make the repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. And, for a first loan, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Savvy did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr M and thought carefully about the following key questions:
 Did Savvy complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending decision? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Savvy act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Savvy has confirmed that it provided only this loan to Mr M. As far as I can see, from looking 
at all the information thats available to me, including having sight of some of Mr Ms bank 
statements, I cant see anything to show that Savvy provided any other loans to him. If Mr M 
can send more information about this showing that it did, then thats something we can 
follow up. Otherwise, as things stand at the moment, Im going to proceed on the basis that 
this loan was his one and only loan with Savvy.  
I havent been provided with the call recording that Mr M had with Savvy when he applied for 
this loan. Thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising if the call 
recording is no longer available after all this time. But, if it can be provided, Savvy should 
confirm this and send me the call recording so that I can take this into account before 
making a final decision.  
Before lending to Mr M, it appears that Savvy asked Mr M for information about his financial 
situation. Using this information, Savvy was able to see what his monthly budget typically 
looked like. And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. 
Savvy told us it checked Mr Ms employment and the amount of his monthly pay by looking 
at the pay slip he provided. Savvy said this evidenced a net pay of £1575.00 and a year-to-
date figure of £1623.82. Savvy said it relied on the lower figure when assessing whether this 
loan would be affordable for Mr M.
Savvy said it asked Mr M about his outgoings, including what he was spending on other 
loans. It worked out he would have a total monthly expenditure of £1026.50, which included 
the amount Mr M had told Savvy about his existing debt repayments. 
Savvy also did a credit check and told us that it questioned Mr M about a missed payment 
on his credit card. It seems that Mr M explained there had been a delay in the payroll and 
hed missed that payment - but had now remedied this. Savvy also said it asked Mr M about 
two recent payday loans it saw and that Mr M advised he took a £95.00 payday loan when 
his wages were delayed and that he had cleared a £667.00 loan. It seems that Savvy requested evidence that he had paid that payday loan off and also evidence regarding 
monthly instalments for an £800.00 loan as Mr Ms credit file didnt reflect this. Savvy said it 
received the requested confirmation via email, confirming that Mr M was paying £169.87 per 
month towards his £800.00 loan.
Savvy calculated that Mr Ms monthly surplus was £479.74. So it was satisfied that the loan 
repayments of £68.76 per month for this loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for 
Mr M. And based on his responses to the information it had gathered on its credit checks, 
Savvy felt the loan was fairly provided. 
Mr M feels strongly that his credit history clearly showed that he wasnt in a position to be 
given any further lending as he had a record of payment problems which showed he was 
already having problems managing his debt. 
But I think its fair to say that all the information Savvy had gathered tended to suggest that 
Mr M seemed to be managing his credit without any obvious signs that he had a serious 
debt problem. Savvy has sent me its credit checks so I can see the same information that it 
relied on when assessing if this loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
The credit checks showed Mr M had a total of nine active credit accounts  he had settled 
twenty three accounts and he had no delinquent accounts showing on his record during the 
previous 12 months. 
The credit checks didnt show that Mr M was involved in any sort of arrangement with 
creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court judgements 
registered and no recent defaults on his record going back 3 years. 
These credit checks show the accounts that Savvy told us it questioned Mr M about  I can 
see he had two credit cards both around their credit limit. And also the three loans Savvy 
said it discussed with Mr M. Apart from these entries, I dont think there was anything else I 
can see that shouldve caused a reasonable lender to be concerned. It wouldnt be unusual 
for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an 
impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I dont 
think the amount of debt shown on Mr Ms credit checks was excessive or that his payment 
history was concerning having regard to his income. 
Id expect Savvy to decide Mr Ms lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This is why information that Mr M feels Savvy should 
have found out, and that he might see on his own credit check, may not have been identified 
by a credit check done by Savvy when he applied for this loan. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to lend here  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
Having thought about what it seems Mr M told Savvy about the outstanding loans, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Savvy to accept what he said at face value and without doing 
further checks to verify what Mr M had said.  Taking everything into account, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Savvy to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Ms finances or ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring (by 
requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources 
to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. I think 
its checks were proportionate and Savvys lending decision wasnt irresponsible. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mr M might now feel this has unfairly added to his debt problems. But Mr M applied for this 
loan and he had to actively engage in the loan application process. The loan documents set 
out the terms and the amount of interest payable. The annual percentage rate of charge 
(APR) on Mr Ms loan was 99%. The total charge for credit would be £487.68 (if the loan ran 
to term). The total amount he would have to repay, including interest, was £1,237.68. The 
agreement showed he would need to make 18 consecutive  payments of £68.76.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr M was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think Savvy had any reason to think 
that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had 
provided information explaining the main loan costs and Mr M said he wanted to proceed. So 
I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult 
for him. I accept that in reality Mr Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Savvy obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this 
case, I dont think that Savvy did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr M. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that Savvy acted towards Mr M in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. Looking at what I've seen and been told so far, I cant fairly 
say that Savvy failed to respond in the way I would expect it to when Mr M contacted it to 
discuss payment issues. Savvy said that Mr M made contact on two occasions when he 
made it aware that he was in financial difficulty  although hed also said the issues were 
short term. Savvy said in February 2017 it asked Mr M to complete an Income and 
Expenditure assessment  I understand he wasnt able to do this due to going to work. And 
in August 2017 Savvy asked him for bank statements which were never provided. In the 
event, Savvy said Mr M committed to reducing spending and contacting other creditors to 
maintain his repayments on this loan.
Savvy told us that all its correspondence also contained information and contact details 
about where Mr M could get additional advice and support to help him manage his situation.
Savvy said there were eight examples of it providing Mr M with a suitable resolution to his 
situation and treating him with understanding, including a refund of charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
And it had done what hed asked and put in place measures to ensure it didnt lend to him 
again. 
I think it was reasonable for Savvy to have requested additional information, such as a 
completed income and expenditure form or bank statements, in order to be able to properly 
assess what help Mr M might need and how it could assist. If Mr M didnt respond to those requests and the information wasnt provided then I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
say that Savvy should have done more than it did. 
Each case is decided on its own merits and so what happened on a different case when 
Mr M complained about the lender doesnt affect the outcome here.
Looked at overall, I dont think I can fairly say that Savvy has acted in a way that isnt fair 
and reasonable. So I havent seen anything to make me think this is a case where it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to award any redress. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M and 
Im sorry. But I hope my explanations help him understand why, as things stand at the 
moment, Ive reached these conclusions. 
If Mr M is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M has sent me detailed comments explaining why he still thinks Savvy acted 
irresponsbily when lending to him. In brief summary, he has mainly reiterated his concern 
that Savvy shouldve done more and better checks before providing the loan, for instance 
with other credit reference agencies - but he also feels that it saw enough information in any 
event to decline his application. And Mr M feels strongly that the high interest on the loan 
wasnt clearly highlighted and that Savvys advertising should be more customer friendly  
he said if the rates had been made more plain and obvious he would not have taken out the 
loan with Savvy. 
Savvy hasnt made any further comments and the deadline for responses has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, I dont find that Mr M has told me anything new that changes what 
I think about this case.
I am very sorry that Mr M has struggled with debt. But I think its fair to say that when he 
applied for this loan with Savyy, in my view the credit information it gathered wasnt enough 
overall to show that he was having serious money problems to the extent that Savvy should 
reasonably have foreseen that this loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for him  
and so it shouldnt have lent it. 
I completely accept that there were evident signs that he was financially stretched. But this 
wasnt untypical of borrowers applying for high cost loans of this type. 
And for all the reasons I've explained more fully in my provisional decision, I dont think that 
a proportionate check required Savvy to do more than it did in terms of checking  the level 
of checks Mr M has suggested it should have done exceed what I think was proportionate for a first loan of this amount in the context of the credit information Savvy had collected. The 
loan looked like it should be affordable  and I think Savvy was reasonably entitled to make 
its lending decision on the basis of the information it had at the time.
Mr M had to engage fully in the loan application process and I think the high interest he 
would pay was reasonably clearly set out in the loan documents  so I dont feel I can uphold 
his complaint that the high interest wasnt clearly stipulated. 
And I cant comment on any other case  Ive made my decision based on the facts in this 
case and I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman