DRN-3105158
The complaint
Mr S says Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) provided him with a very poor service when he tried 
to withdraw funds from a pension plan he held with them. He feels this led to a financial loss. 
  
What happened
Mr S held an Adaptable Pension Plan with Zurich. Zurich sent him a letter dated 6 February 
2020, which aimed to help him prepare for his retirement. Retirement was possible from his 
55th birthday, which was on 11 March 2020. The letter included a current plan value and a 
current transfer value, which the letter noted werent guaranteed. The transfer value was 
higher than the plan value. The letter noted that this was because it included a claim 
enhancement. 
So Mr S contacted Zurich on 24 February 2020 as hed decided he wanted to take his 
pension benefits when he turned 55. Based on the information Mr S was given during that 
call, he decided to take part of the value of his pension fund in the 2019/20 tax year. And the 
remaining pension fund in the subsequent tax year 2020/21. Zurichs adviser explained that 
his request may not be achievable, as the 9 March 2020 was the cut-off date for accessing 
pension funds in the 2019/20 tax year. Based on the information in that call, Mr S expected 
both partial payments to be enhanced.
Some of the information Mr S was given during the 24 February 2020 call wasnt correct. 
Zurichs adviser had told Mr S that his partial payments would be enhanced, but that wasnt 
the case. The claim enhancement couldnt actually be paid until Mr S had taken all of his 
benefits from the pension plan. 
After the call, Zurich issued a retirement benefits pack on 2 March 2020. But Mr S contacted 
Zurich on 5 March 2020, as hed not received it. So a copy was emailed to him that day.
Mr S had to speak to Zurich on other occasions over the next two weeks. He said he felt he 
was provided with unclear information during these calls. 
Over the next couple of weeks, the value of Mr Ss plan fell. His plan value reached a point 
where the partial payment he wanted to withdraw in the 2019/20 tax year was greater than 
the amount the plan permitted to be withdrawn. This was because the partial payment 
wouldnt be enhanced, despite what Mr S had been told on 24 February 2020. And there 
was also a requirement for at least £5,000 to be left invested in the pension plan. Mr S said 
he hadnt been aware of these requirements. So he raised a complaint. Mr S wanted Zurich 
to check whether hed lost out financially due to their errors. 
Mr S had further calls with Zurich on 18 March 2020. During those calls, he decided to take 
all the funds from his pension plan. The plan was settled as a full payment on 19 March 
2020. Zurich wrote to him on 1 April 2020 to confirm the amount theyd paid him. And that 
the funds had been transferred into his bank account. 
Zurich issued their final response on 5 May 2020. They apologised for the frustration and 
inconvenience hed experienced and upheld Mr Ss complaint. They explained that some of 
the information Mr S had been given in the 24 February 2020 call had been incorrect. And 
that they only pay the full enhanced transfer value when the last part of a plan is claimed. 
They noted that feedback about this error had been given to the adviser. And they 
apologised for the error.  
Zurich noted that the claims pack had been re-issued as soon as possible. And that although 
theyd received the completed claims form back on 6 March 2020, they couldnt take any 
action until 11 March 2020 when Mr S turned 55. Zurich also said that the fall in Mr Ss plan 
value was connected to the stock market and the impact the pandemic was having on it. 
Zurich paid Mr S £75 compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused when they didnt 
explain during the 24 February 2020 call that the enhanced value would only be paid on a 
full payment. They also paid Mr S £15 to cover the cost of phone calls.
Mr S was unhappy with their response, so complained again to Zurich. He wanted to know 
why theyd not made him aware of issues with the stock market. And why theyd not offered 
him options to switch his funds into less risky investments. He also wanted a clear 
explanation about how the claim enhancement worked. He felt that the delayed claim pack 
had affected the amount hed got from his plan. 
In their 2 June 2020 response, Zurich explained that theyre not authorised to provide advice 
in respect of switching funds. But they noted that the annual statements they send to 
customers remind them of this choice. They apologised that theyd failed to explain how the 
claim enhancement worked. They also said that theyd received the completed claim form 
before the earliest date they could take any action on Mr Ss request.
As Mr S was unhappy with Zurichs response, he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt that Zurich couldve delivered a better customer experience. But he 
didnt feel theyd caused any significant delays to the process. He also thought that although 
Zurich had given Mr S some incorrect information about partial transfers, this wasnt the 
cause of the value of his funds decreasing. He concluded that Zurich had acted within their 
agreed timescales to process Mr Ss request. And he felt that the £90 Zurich had paid Mr S 
(£75 compensation for distress and inconvenience and £15 to cover the cost of phone calls) 
was fair under the circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained that he wanted clear, correct information in order to execute 
the transaction. He felt that part of that information couldve covered his options in terms of 
where his plan could be invested while he waited to disinvest. He felt it important that the 
specific consequences of any enhancements should be fully explained. 
After the view had been issued, a new investigator took over the complaint. As Mr S had 
disagreed with the view, he was asked if he would prefer an attempt at mediation. Or if he 
wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. Mr S asked our 
investigator to attempt mediation. He felt that a fair amount of compensation was £500. He 
felt that hed financially lost out due to Zurichs errors. And he also said itd been very 
stressful thinking that his fund value had reduced considerably. 
So our investigator put Mr Ss points to Zurich. They declined to increase the compensation 
theyd already paid. As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this on 21 September 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view that Zurichs errors didnt directly lead to 
Mr S receiving a reduced amount from his pension plan. But I dont agree that the amount of 
compensation theyve paid so far is fair under the circumstances of the complaint. So I 
intend to ask Zurich to pay additional compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience, stress 
and frustration theyve caused him. Ill explain why.
Did Zurichs errors directly lead to a financial loss for Mr S?
Zurich acknowledged that they gave Mr S incorrect information about partial payments 
receiving enhancement during the 24 February 2020 call. 
Mr S has also complained about: 
delayed communication
Zurich not making him aware of issues with the stock market, or giving him options to 
switch into less risky investments
the lack of clarity around the transaction he wanted to process
Having looked at all the evidence, I understand why Mr S considers Zurich delayed the 
process for his payment request. But from what Ive seen, I dont agree that they did. They 
re-issued the claims pack as soon as Mr S notified them he hadnt received it. I agree with 
Zurich that it wasnt their fault that the initial letter, sent in the post, didnt get to Mr S. And I 
can see that the replacement pack allowed Mr S to complete and return all of the required 
paperwork before his 55th birthday. And ahead of the 9 March 2020 cut-off for requests in the 
2019/20 tax year. Therefore there wouldve been no advantage in the paperwork having 
been returned any sooner. So Im not persuaded that the delayed paperwork caused any 
issues.
Moving on to Mr Ss complaint about Zurich not making him aware of issues with the stock 
market. Or giving him options to switch into less risky investments. I consider that the issues 
with the stock market had been widely reported. As such Im satisfied Mr S wouldve known 
what was happening whether or not Zurich told him. But there was no requirement on Zurich 
to tell Mr S. So Im satisfied that Zurich did nothing wrong here. 
Ill now look at the lack of clarity around the transaction Mr S wanted to process. As well as 
the acknowledged incorrect information about claim enhancement, Zurich also failed to give 
Mr S important information about a restriction on his pension plan. There was a requirement 
for at least £5,000 to be left invested in his pension plan after a partial payment had been 
taken. But Mr S wasnt told about this during the 24 February 2020 call. This requirement led 
to his partial payment request being rejected on 10 March 2020 when Zurich realised that 
processing that payment would leave less than the required amount in his plan. Given the 
value of Mr Ss pension plan at the time of the 24 February 2020 call, and noting his request, 
I consider that Zurichs adviser shouldve clearly explained this restriction.   
In order to decide whether Zurichs errors and lack of clarity have led to a financial loss, I 
need to assess what shouldve happened. So Ive thought about what wouldve happened if 
Mr S had been given the correct information from the start. 
Clearly I cant know with certainty what Mr S wouldve done had he been given the correct 
information from the start. However, I have a good idea of that from what he went on to do, 
and what he said during the 24 February 2020 phone call. During that call, Mr S was initially comfortable to take all of his fund value in one go if partial payments werent possible. So Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr S wouldve taken a full transfer as soon as 
possible. 
If, during the 24 February 2020 call, hed decided to take a full transfer in the 2019/20 tax 
year, he wouldve had to provide a completed claim form in advance of the 9 March 2020 
cut-off date. No action wouldve been possible on his request until he reached his 55th 
birthday on 11 March 2020. But I would expect Zurich to have processed his request in the 
tax year he requested.
Zurich had previously advised Mr S that on receipt of the claim form they aim to process any 
claims within 10 working days. So Mr S couldve expected his request to be processed within 
10 working days of his birthday, which is by 25 March 2020. So Im satisfied that if Mr S had 
been given the correct information from the start, his request to take a full transfer wouldve 
taken place by 25 March 2020.
In reality, the plan was settled as a full payment on 19 March 2020, with the 20 March 2020 
being the date used to determine the final value of the payment. 
Looking at what shouldve happened and comparing it with what did happen, Im satisfied 
that Zurichs errors and lack of clarity didnt lead to a financial loss. Im persuaded that Mr S 
ended up in the same position he wouldve been in had the correct information been given at 
the start.
Ill now decide whether I consider the level of compensation Zurich have paid Mr S is fair 
under the circumstances.
Compensation for the errors and their impact
I need to decide if the £75 compensation Zurich have already paid to Mr S for not explaining 
during the 24 February 2020 call that the enhanced value would only be paid on a full 
payment is fair and reasonable. 
Mr S has complained about a number of issues, which Ive considered earlier. In summary, 
Im not persuaded that Zurich delayed the process or failed to give investment advice. But I 
am persuaded that there was a lack of clarity on the £5,000 minimum that Zurich havent yet 
taken into account in their compensation. Mr S has told this service that the process of 
accessing his pension plan funds caused him stress and confusion. 
From what Ive seen, Mr S has also clearly been inconvenienced and distressed because of 
Zurichs errors. While Zurich were looking into whatd gone wrong, the value of his pension 
plan was falling. Mr S felt that every time he spoke to Zurich the value of his plan was falling 
- often so significantly that he became concerned and frustrated. This led to him trying to get 
definitive answers from Zurich about what was happening. So I can see that it took time and 
wouldve been stressful trying to get the information he needed.
I acknowledge that Zurich apologised for their mistake in not explaining the claim 
enhancement correctly during the 24 February 2020 call with Mr S. And paid him £75 for the 
trouble and upset that caused. But I also consider that Zurich shouldve compensated Mr S 
for their additional error in not telling him about the £5,000 minimum. And I think they should 
consider the impact their errors had on Mr S over a period of several weeks.
Overall, I consider that Zurichs errors took a reasonable effort from Mr S to sort out. I can 
see that Mr S was in a relatively stressful situation every time he spoke to Zurich for over 
several weeks. I intend to ask Zurich to pay Mr S an additional £225 for their errors, and the impact of their errors. 
Response to my provisional decision
Both Zurich and Mr S accepted my provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Zurich to pay Mr S an additional £225 for their errors, and the impact of their errors. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay Mr S 
£225 additional compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman