DRN-3576372
The complaint
Miss Fs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her pet insurance policy with HDI 
Global Specialty SE.
What happened
In October 2021, Miss Fs dog was diagnosed with Cushings disease and so she made 
claims under the policy for the cost of treatment and tests. HDI refused the claim as it said 
symptoms of the disease (including, fur not growing back, increased appetite and weight 
loss) had been noticed by Miss F before she took out the policy on 3 August 2021. 
Miss F is very unhappy with this and says the symptoms she noticed (her dog being hungrier 
than usual and urinating more) had only started on the weekend of 21 August 2021. Miss F 
has made a number of points in support of her complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
Her dog was perfectly healthy when she took out the policy and there were no clinical 
signs or symptoms evident prior to or within the first 14 days of the policy start date. 
On the weekend of 21/22 August 2021, she noticed he was drinking and urinating 
quite a lot and he appeared hungrier than usual, so she called the vet
on 23 August 2021. 
The vet mentioned that the dogs fur was quite short and asked if he had been 
shaved. He had been shaved at the end of May 2021, less than three months before 
the appointment. 
Her dog was a short-haired breed and if Cushing's disease had been present or 
there had been any issue with his fur growth prior to taking out the insurance there 
wouldn't have been any need to get him shaved in May 2021. 
Her dog was put on medication but he deteriorated quickly, which suggests the 
condition came on quickly as well.  His symptoms were very evident after this  
losing chunks of fur, he became pot-bellied and had an insatiable appetite. 
If it was evident at this initial consultation that her dog was displaying any
symptoms of Cushing's Disease, then why was he not tested for that straight away? 
It was only the third set of blood tests that tested for Cushing's disease.
There have been numerous errors both by the vet and HDI and her dog was not 
given the care he deserved. 
HDI maintained its refusal of the claim but did pay Miss F £75 compensation as there had 
been a delay in dealing with the claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that HDI was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Miss F does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. Miss F also provided a short video and a photo of her dog, which she says were taken 
on 14 and 31 August respectively, showing him in good health and with no issues with his 
fur.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Fs policy, like most other pet policies, does not cover pre-existing conditions. It says:  
What is not covered
Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the insurance or 
pre-existing condition.
A pre-existing condition is defined as: 
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy for 
illness or 72 hours in the case of injury.
And Illness/illnesses are defined in the policy as:
changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an accident, or any which may 
be resulting from gradual or biological cause...
So it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this 
definition and exclusion but the symptoms which occur before the start of the policy, or within 
the first 14 days, must be connected to the condition claimed for. As the policy started on 3 
August 2021, to fall within cover the symptoms or changes in health would have to be first 
known to Miss F on or after 17 August 2021 (i.e. 14 days after the policy started).  
Miss F called her vet on 23 August 2021. The vets notes of that call say: 
[Dog] eating a lot more than usual, snatching food, drinking excessively and losing a lot of 
weight. 
Miss F took her dog into the vet on 25 August 2021 and the notes of that attendance say: 
History- used to be laid back with food and now constantly hungry; 
Last few months  
O [owner] feels like hes lost weight; been shaved 4 months ago and fur not growing back;
acting out of character in the morning when asking for food; polyuric, polydipsic. 
 Not sure if hair thinning due to being groomed and hair not growing back.
Miss F says the reference to symptoms being present for the last few months was in 
relation to the loss of weight only but in fact her dog had not lost weight and so this is not 
relevant. 
I note the vet has also since written to say the only particular timeline she recalls was that 
the dogs fur had been cut four months earlier and the other symptoms had been mentioned 
in a recent light but I would not be able to recall the number of days and there is no 
definitive timeline.  I take this to mean that the other symptoms were mentioned as having 
occurred more recently in relation to the appointment than four months. The vet also says 
reference to symptoms being noticed over the last few months doesnt mean all the 
symptoms developed at the same time but was a way of introducing the history.This isnt entirely in line with the notes the vet made at the time of the appointment. The vet 
records of 25 August 2021 say that Miss F told her that her dog had been constantly 
hungry, which in my opinion suggests this had been an observation formed over more than 
two days. The vet then says that for the last few months Miss F felt he had lost weight, his 
fur had not grown back, urinating more and he had been acting out of character in relation to 
food. It seems to me the reference to months related to all these symptoms, as they are 
listed as part of the same sentence and there is no other time frame given for the other 
symptoms or any other indication that they were reported differently. 
I think it is unlikely the vet would have recorded any of the symptoms as having been 
present for the last few months if this is not what Miss F had told her. And there is no 
reference in the notes of the phone call on 23 August 2021, or the attendance on 25 August 
2021, to any of the symptoms having been noticed over the few days or weekend 
immediately before the appointment. So, even if I accept that the vet didnt mean that all the 
symptoms had been present for a few months, she does no confirm that the other symptoms 
were only present after 17 August 2021. There is no reference to the main relevant 
symptoms only being observed for the previous two/three days.  And the other evidence 
available suggests they had been observed before this. 
Miss F also says the dog had not in fact lost weight and that she had not been concerned 
about the dogs fur (this having been raised by the vet and not her) but this doesnt alter the 
fact she had observed changes in the dog, which gave cause for concern enough to attend 
the vet.  The evidence supports that Miss F told the vet there had been signs of her dog 
being unwell, or acting out of character enough to cause concern, for some time before the 
contact on 23 August 2021. And it seems likely to me that Miss Fs observations of 
suspected weight loss, barking for food and appetite changes would have taken place over 
more than the two days before calling a vet about them. 
As stated above, it is only necessary for HDI to establish it is more likely than not that the 
symptoms were apparent (even if the cause of them was unknown to Miss F) before 17 
August 2021 and I think it has done this. 
There was a delay on HDIs part of around three weeks in registering the claim. It then 
progressed the claim in a reasonable time in my opinion, declining it in mid-January 2022. I 
agree that the £75 compensation is appropriate for the initial delay. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman