DRN-4050444
The complaint
Mr S complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S acquired a new car through a hire agreement from VWFS. Mr S made 
an advanced rental of £2,196.08, which left him 23 monthly repayments of £117. 
Mr S said when his agreement came to an end, he was charged by VWFS for an extra rental 
period whilst he waited for another vehicle to become available. VWFS confirmed they 
invoiced Mr S £366.60 for extra days rental on the agreement and £570 for damages.
Mr S complained to VWFS about the charges. He believed some of the charges were 
incorrectly applied. He also felt that VWFS poor customer service, led to them not collecting 
the payments for the extra days rental. 
In October 2022 VWFS issued their final response to Mr S complaint. VWFS upheld part of 
his complaint and reduced the damage charges to £270. But they maintained their position 
on the extra days rental charges of £366.60. 
Unhappy with their decision, Mr S brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr S 
remained unhappy with the charges applied and believed a 50% reduction would be fair. 
Following a review of the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mr S 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that the damage charges 
applied were fair and that the charges for the extra days rental period were also applied 
fairly.
VWFS accepted this recommendation. Mr S didnt. Mr S confirmed that he wasnt disputing 
the remaining damage charges, or the rental that is owed. Mr S said he was seeking 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of VWFS poor 
customer service, and that they attempted to charge him for damages that shouldnt have 
applied in the first instance. As our investigators view remained unchanged, Mr S asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. 
Here, the charges for damages and the extra days rental due is not in dispute by either 
party. Mr S confirmed this in an email to our investigator in March 2023. VWFS also 
confirmed their position in their final response to Mr S complaint.
Having considered the charges are not in dispute, it seems to me there are two key issues 
for me to consider in relation to this complaint:
1. Should VWFS contribute towards the costs of the extra days rental; and
2. Should VWFS further reduce the damage charges that were applied
extra rental period
Mr S explained that in February 2022 he applied for an extension to his lease agreement, 
but it was declined because hed failed an online verification process. Mr S said that VWFS 
never contacted him but instead instructed a collections agency to pick up his car. Mr S said 
he still needed the car, so he contacted VWFS, who put the case on hold and extended the 
agreement for two months. VWFS system notes confirm that in March 2022 the collection of 
the car was placed on hold and the lease extended.
VWFS system notes also confirm that in May 2022 the vehicle was to be returned with no 
option for extension, and a note on 23 August 2022 confirmed the vehicle collections agency 
collected the car.
In September 2022 VWFS invoiced Mr S £366.60 for 108 extra days rental. Their final 
response confirms the rental period being charged for was from 14 May 2022 and that Mr S 
acknowledged this during a phone call with VWFS on 22 August 2022. VWFS system notes 
confirm the phone call and the contract end date.
Mr S said he received no further contact from VWFS after March 2022, and that he assumed 
the contract had been extended. However, VWFS provided us with a copy of 
correspondence that was sent to Mr S on 24 May 2022, advising that the contract had ended 
on 14 May 2022 and that daily charges would be applied.
Mr S also confirmed in an email to our investigator in March 2023 that he had continued use 
of the car. So, from the evidence provided, Im not persuaded VWFS needs to compensate 
Mr S for poor customer service. Im satisfied that Mr S would have reasonably been aware 
that the agreement ended in May 2022 and that additional daily charges would be applied. 
I acknowledge Mr S said he didnt receive any contact from VWFS, but the evidence 
provided shows a letter was sent to Mr S at the correct address. 
That said, even had VWFS not made contact with Mr S after the lease end date on 14 May 
2022, I still consider that hed be liable for the extra days rental charges. Section 11 of the 
terms and conditions of the hire agreement advise that daily charges will be applied for a late 
vehicle return. Im satisfied Mr S would have had the opportunity to familiarise himself with 
those terms. In addition, I think its fair that Mr S pays for a hire vehicle that he continued to use beyond the agreed lease period. I dont think its reasonable to expect that VWFS should 
allow its vehicle to be used free from charge.
damages charges
Mr S said that he thinks VWFS should pay him some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when they fraudulently attempted to obtain extra money from him for 
damages that were within fair wear and tear.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British vehicle lease and rental 
association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, when they are 
returned at the end of a finance agreement.
In their final response, VWFS confirmed that two of the charges originally applied, fell within 
the fair wear and tear guidelines and were to be deducted from the overall charges. They 
also confirmed in an email to Mr S that a further charge of £190 for a spare key had been 
removed. 
Having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded VWFS were attempting to defraud Mr 
S when they initially invoiced him for the refurbishment charges. 
The initial invoice would have likely been as a result of the collection agencys initial 
inspection of the car when it was returned. The BVRLA advises on disputes, within their 
guidance, about the condition of vehicles when theyre returned after the hire period. I dont 
think its unreasonable or uncommon that some charges, after further consideration, would 
be considered within the fair wear and tear guidelines. Ive seen no evidence to support what 
Mr S has said about VWFS. Im also not persuaded that an incorrect charge means VWFS 
were acting inappropriately. 
Once the issues were raised by Mr S, I dont think VWFS unreasonably delayed removing 
them. I dont consider that VWFS acted inappropriately or unfairly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman