DRN-2280855
The complaint 
Miss C complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly refused to 
provide a refund on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019 Miss B took out a Aioi motor insurance policy. She provided an annual mileage 
estimate of 5,000 miles. In early 2020 the Covid pandemic developed. As a result Miss C 
found she would be using her car less than she had initially expected. So she asked Aioi to 
provide a premium refund based on her lower expectation mileage. 
Aioi didnt agree to a refund. It responded to a complaint from Miss C by explaining its 
reasons. It said she had purchased a policy with its lowest mileage allowance  6,000 miles. 
It said the premium was to cover her to drive 6,000 miles or receive insurance for 12 months. 
It said there was no refund for unused mileage. Unhappy with its response, she brought the 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Aioi had done anything wrong by not providing a refund. So he 
didnt ask it do anything differently. Miss C didnt accept that, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Aiois explanation for not refunding any of Miss Cs premium. Having done 
so I cant say its decision is unfair or unreasonable. 
Aiois explained that it offers policies with mileage allowances up to 6,000, 8,000 or 10,000. 
The policy terms set out that additional miles need to be purchased if the limit is exceeded. 
The terms dont provide an allowance for a refund if any of those miles are unused by the 
end of the policy. Having looked at the policy terms I cant say Aiois failed to follow them.
But this service doesnt just consider policy terms. We also consider if insurers have treated 
their customers fairly. And during the pandemic the industry regulator set out guidance 
requiring them to treat customers sympathetically. 
Considering that, if there was a lower mileage bracket with a lower premium for example, I 
might say Aioi should have offered Miss C the chance to downgrade her policy. But she was 
already in the lowest mileage category. If she no longer needed it at all, and couldnt afford 
it, because of the pandemic it might be fair for Aioi to waive any cancellation fees.  
Miss Cs said mileage was the primary rating factor for Aioi when it set her policy premium  
so she should get a refund. In my experience its likely that Aioi considered a range of 
factors when setting her premium. And its explained the premium was calculated to cover 
her for up to 6,000 miles or up to 12 months. So even if Miss C only drove minimal miles 
during that full period Aioi would still be insuring her car against a variety of risks for 12 
months. 
Overall, Aiois provided a reasonable explanation for its decision not to refund Miss C any of 
her premium. So I wont be requiring it to do anything differently.        
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman