DRN-1716599
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given two loans by Everyday Loans in December 2017 and September 2018.
The first loan in December 2017 was for £2,600. This was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of around £178. The total amount payable, including interest was just over 
£6,440.
The second loan in September 2018 was for just over £3,645 which included £1,000 paid to 
him in cash and £2,645.00 to clear his previous loan. Loan 2 was due to be repaid in 48 
monthly instalments of just over £272. The total repayable, including interest was around 
£13,101. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans 
had been wrong to provide the first loan. But he didnt think it had been right to provide the 
second loan to Mr M.  So he asked Everyday Loans to pay some compensation. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a 
fair lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making the payments to the loans 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr M.Did Everyday Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Everyday Loans says it carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Mr M which 
included asking for details of his income and expenditure and carrying out some credit 
checks. The lender calculated Mr Ms monthly income to include his net salary, child benefit, 
rental income he received from a property and a contribution from his partner. His regular 
monthly expenditure was calculated to include rent/mortgage repayments, credit repayments 
plus living expenses. Everyday Loans assessed Mr Ms disposable income and it says loan 
1 was affordable for him. 
Given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the extended length of the loan 
term, I think Everyday Loans should have taken steps to gain a thorough understanding of 
Mr Ms true financial position. From what Ive seen, the lender requested two months 
payslips and asked to see Mr Ms bank statements. Having taken into account everything 
Ive seen, I am not persuaded that the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before 
agreeing to the first loan were indeed fair, reasonable and proportionate.
But even if those checks werent proportionate, it doesnt automatically follow that the lender 
was wrong to provide Mr M with the first loan. 
Mr M has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve 
shown up in any proportionate checks Everyday Loans might have carried out. But in the 
absence of anything else from the lender showing what this information would have shown, I 
think its reasonable to say that this information is a fair indication of what Mr Ms financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Mr M has provided statements from two bank accounts  a sole account into which his 
salary, child benefit and funds from his partner was paid. And a joint bank account into which 
the rental income he received was paid and from which he paid a number of expenses 
associated with his property, as well as his mortgage payments and car finance payments. 
Mr M appears to have paid some discretionary expenses such as food, travel, eating out etc 
from both accounts. 
Mr M disagrees with Everyday Loans assessment of his income and expenditure when he 
took the first loan. He says the lender didnt ask to see the joint bank account statements; 
that it was aware he was receiving rental income but that it didnt query the expenditure he 
was incurring for that property and it didnt take into account the amounts he was paying 
from his joint account for his mortgage and car finance loan. He also thinks Everyday Loans 
would have been aware of these commitments from its credit report.
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive reviewed everything the parties have provided  
including the bank statements from both Mr Ms sole account and his joint account, and the 
lenders records made when Mr M applied for the loan, as well its credit report. But from 
what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that, even if the lender had carried out more thorough 
checks at the time, it would reasonably have come to the conclusion that the loan application 
should be declined. In the circumstances, I cant fairly say that Everyday Loans made an 
unfair lending decision when it agreed to provide the first loan to Mr M. So I am not 
upholding his complaint about the first loan.
However, I dont think Everyday Loans should have provided the second loan to Mr M and Ill 
explain why.From the evidence provided, it seems Mr M told Everyday Loans he wanted to borrow 
another £1000. He was lent £3,645.08 which included £1,000 paid to him in cash and 
£2,645.00 to clear the previous loan. His monthly instalments rose from £178 to £241 and 
the total payable, including interest, increased from around £6,441 to over £13,000.
Everyday Loans says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M and 
acquired another credit report. It concluded that loan 2 was affordable for him.
But simply requesting information from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender 
will have carried out a borrower focussed assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably 
repay a loan. This was an expensive loan, repayable over a long period and the rules and 
guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the 
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial 
situation.
Mr M was returning, less than 12 months after taking loan 1, to borrow again. His financial 
position had obviously not improved  he had not got out from under his financial problems, 
which were causing him to take expensive lending again. Everyday Loans was aware from 
its conversations with Mr M that he had recently been given a default notice from a utility 
company. Taking things in the round, I think all of this should reasonably have led Everyday 
Loans to have looked into Mr Ms financial position and his expenses in more detail.  In 
these circumstances, I would reasonably expect the lender to have realised that in order for 
its affordability checks to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more 
thorough.
The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, 
it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. Everyday Loans needed to get a more thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial 
position in order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the second 
loan repayments  which were higher than his first loan repayments - every month, for four 
more years.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mr M has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the second loan. I think if Everyday Loans had carried out what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered the full extent of his financial 
commitments and his emerging financial difficulties. In addition to the default notice from the 
utility company, he was finding it difficult to make the repayments for his car finance on time.
Everyday Loans has focussed on whether the loan was affordable for Mr M on a pounds and 
pence basis, based on its analysis of his income and expenditure. But as Ive already 
explained, the lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably make his 
loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I think Everyday Loans should reasonably have realised that Mr M was over committed 
financially and there were indications that he was having difficulty managing his finances. And that it was likely he would need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from Everyday 
Loans. I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably have realised that it was unlikely that Mr M 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay his second loan. So it should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see that Mr M tried to negotiate terms for early settlement of his account on a couple of 
occasions. Everyday Loans explained the terms for early settlement, which required 
repayment of the capital borrowed and some interest. The lender had to treat Mr M positively 
and sympathetically in these discussions. I am not persuaded that it failed to do so in this 
respect. So I dont find that Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in 
some other way. 
Putting things right
Mr M is being expected to pay interest and charges on the second loan that he shouldnt 
have been given in the first place. He has lost out because Everyday Loans has unfairly 
provided him with this loan. So Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr M.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 2, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan. 
If this results in Mr M having made overpayments, then Everyday Loans should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled*. 
If an outstanding balance remains then Everyday Loans should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman