DRN-3361344
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with how Startline Motor Finance Limited dealt with her request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 30 October 2019, Mrs L was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. She paid a deposit if £131 and the agreement was for £15,000 over 60 months; 
with monthly repayments of £320.
Mrs Ls income was affected by Covid-19 and, in April 2020, she contacted Startline for 
assistance. A payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday) was arranged to cover 
the payments for April to June 2020. Mrs L says that, on 7 July 2020, she called Startline 
and agreed a further payment deferral period.
Mrs L contacted Startline in September 2020, explaining that shed be back at work in 
October 2020, and asking them to reinstate payments. But Startline issued a default notice 
due to the arrears on Mrs Ls account. And, Startline told Mrs L that, if she didnt pay £320 
by 31 October 2020, theyd default the agreement and start recovery action. 
The account was terminated on 27 October 2020, and Mrs L recommenced payments to the 
account on 20 November 2020. Startline agreed that Mrs L could keep using the car while 
she continued to make monthly payments, but theyd also look for her to clear the arrears, 
deferred payments, and any fees relating to the termination. And, if a suitable arrangement 
couldnt be reached, then theyd still look to repossess the car.
Mrs L complained to Startline that they hadnt set up the payment deferral they agreed in 
July 2020, and they didnt give her any details so she could make payments, despite several 
requests for them to do so. She was also unhappy Startline didnt take her circumstances 
into consideration  her son was in hospital so she was spending a lot of time there and 
couldnt receive calls; and she was unwell with Covid-19, and is still affected by Long Covid.
Mrs L wasnt happy with Startlines response to her complaint, and she brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Startline had asked Mrs L to contact them at the end of the deferral 
period if her financial situation remained unchanged. But shed seen no evidence that Mrs L 
did so, or that a second payment deferral had been agreed. 
Whats more, as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) didnt issue guidance about second 
payment deferral periods until 17 July 2020, the investigator thought it was highly unlikely 
that Startline wouldve agreed to a second deferral period on 7 July 2020. Instead, they 
would most likely have followed the existing general forbearance guidance. Which meant 
that arrears would start to accrue from the missed July 2020 payment onwards. And Startline 
had acted reasonably be defaulting the account.
The investigator also said that Mrs L indicated to Startline that she would be able to restart 
payments in October or November 2020, but she was waiting for repairs to her shop to be 
completed in October 2020, before she could start trading again. So, even if Startline had 
provided payment details before 31 October 2020, the investigator didnt think that Mrs L 
wouldve been able to make payments earlier than this date. As such, she didnt think this 
delay caused any impact.
Additionally, the investigator also said Mrs L didnt make Startline aware of the situation with 
her son, or about her Long Covid, until 5 November 2020. Which was after the agreement 
had been terminated. So, taking everything into consideration, the investigator didnt think 
that Startline needed to do anything more.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Startline didnt make reasonable 
attempts to contact her about the situation on her account, between May and September 
2020, and the only time they contacted her was about the default. And they then delayed in 
providing details so she couldnt make a payment until after the account had been defaulted.
Mrs L also said the assumption she wouldnt have been able to make any payment in 
October 2020 was incorrect, and had she had Startlines bank details earlier, she wouldve 
made the payment sooner. 
Because Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The FCA published guidance, which came into force on 27 April 2020, which said that a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. The guidance 
also makes it clear that a payment deferral shouldnt be considered as arrears. 
Its not disputed that an initial payment deferral was put into place to cover Mrs Ls payments 
for April to June 2020.
The FCA issued updated guidance on 15 July 2020. This guidance said that, Where, after 
an initial payment deferral, and at any time before their first payment is due, a customer 
indicates they remain in temporary payment difficulties and cannot resume full payments 
immediately, a firm should offer a full or partial payment deferral to reduce payments for a 
period of 3 months to a level the customer indicates they can afford. If the customer is in 
temporary payment difficulties but is unable to afford any payments, the firm should offer 
them a full payment deferral where this is in the customers interests.The guidance was also clear that a firm that has dealt with customers at the end of a 
payment deferral period before this guidance came into force should review whether the 
outcome the customer has received is consistent with the outcome they would likely have 
received under this guidance. If it is not consistent, the firm should make all reasonable 
efforts to contact affected customers and give them an opportunity to take up any further 
help they may be eligible for under this guidance. 
Mrs L has said she contacted Startline on 7 July 2020, and they agreed a second payment 
deferral. But Startline said this didnt happen. Startlines contact log doesnt show any call 
from Mrs L on 7 July 2020, nor does it show that Mrs L asked for a second payment deferral. 
And, despite being asked for this, Miss L hasnt been able to provide any evidence i.e. an 
itemised phone bill, showing that she contacted Startline in July 2020.
Whats more, given the guidance quoted above, Startline wasnt required to offer a second 
payment deferral until at least 15 July 2020  over a week after Mrs L says they did. The 
most theyd be able to do would be to follow the existing guidance about treating customers 
with financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And then, once the 
guidance had been issued, Startline wouldve contacted customers in these situations to 
offer a second payment deferral, if appropriate. But Startline made no attempt to contact Mrs 
L, which indicates that they werent dealing with her under the forbearance guidance.
Given the above, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L didnt contact Startline after 
the initial payment deferral period ended, and that no second payment deferral was either 
discussed or agreed at this point. So, Startline acted reasonably by dealing with the missed 
payments from July 2020 onwards as arrears.
Startline first attempted to contact Mrs L about her arears on 10 August 2020, around 10 
days after the first payment was missed. Given that she was in a payment deferral period 
than ran until the July 2020 payment fell due, I wouldnt reasonably have expected Startline 
to contact Mrs L sooner than this. And I dont think they did anything wrong by not doing so.
Mrs L emailed Startline on 10 September 2020, saying that shed be going back to work in 
October, and asking for the direct debit to be reinstated from 15 October 2020. In reply, on 
13 September 2020, Startline explained that restarting payments would still mean that her 
account would be in arrears. And they asked her to contact them to discuss the situation. 
Mrs L responded to this email, telling Startline that she was on a payment deferral until 
September and that she was hoping to go back to work in October if no new rules are 
introduced. Startline tried to contact Mrs L about this on 14 September 2020 but were 
unable to reach her, leaving a voicemail. And they issued a default notice the same day.
Mrs L contacted Startline again on 18 September 2020, saying that shed arranged a second 
payment deferral in July 2020. Startline responded, advising Mrs L they hadnt received any 
contact from her since 25 May 2020, and that a default notice had been issued. They also 
advised her that the arrears of £1,600 (which included the payment deferral amount) would 
need to be paid by 30 September 2020, otherwise the agreement would be terminated.
On 21 September 2020, Mrs L emailed Startline to say shed asked for her payments to be 
deferred for as long as needed and reviewed every three months. For the reasons already 
given above, Im satisfied that no second payment deferral was agreed and, even if it had 
been, the FCA guidance didnt allow for an indefinite arrangement.No payments were received by 30 September 2020, and Startline took the decision not to 
terminate the agreement at this point. Mrs L emailed Startline on 2 October 2202 asking to 
set up payments from October. Startline have said they needed to speak to Mrs L to confirm 
this, and to discuss the arrears on her account. I can see from their contact log that they 
unsuccessfully attempted to call Mrs L on 14 separate occasions between 8 and 31 October, 
leaving a voicemail message on each occasion.
Startline emailed Mrs L on 7 October, telling her they were trying to contact her, and letting 
her know that she was three months in arrears, that her account was due to default on 31 
October 2020, and to prevent this she would need to make a payment of £320 urgently. 
Mrs L emailed Startline on 13 October 2020 to say she was starting work that month, again 
asking for her direct debit to be reinstated. At this point she was £640 in arrears in addition 
to the deferred payments. And Starline asked her to contact them to discuss the situation.
Mrs L emailed Startline on 15 October 2020, explaining she was having difficulties getting 
through to them. And that shed requested the self-service portal login details to be sent out 
to her. She also said that she wouldnt be making any payments over the phone as Startline 
had agreed to postpone her payments until she was back in work. As a result of this, on 27 
October 2020, Startline terminated the account.
Mrs L sent another email on 29 October, saying shed tried to call Startline over 60 times 
but was unable to speak to them or resolve anything. And she said shed asked for the login 
information for their website four times, so she could make a payment. But hadnt received 
this information. It was at this point she also explained that her son was in hospital, which 
meant that she couldnt use her phone for most of the day.
Startline sent Mrs L an email on 31 October 2020 entitled ***FINAL REQUEST TO 
CONTACT STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE***. In this email they explained theyd been 
unable to contact her, and now had no choice but to default the account and terminate the 
agreement, unless a payment was made immediately. They also provided her with details to 
make a payment by bank transfer. 
In reply, Mrs L told Startline that she shouldve been on a payment holiday until October 
2020, and that she keeps getting emails asking her to contact them, but shes been unable 
to get through to them by phone. Startline replied to this email at 11:53am on 31 October 
2020, explaining that her arrears were now £1,280 (plus the deferred payments) and they 
needed a payment of £320 by no later than 3pm that day, otherwise the account would be 
defaulted. And repossession proceeding started.
On 5 November 2020, Mrs L emailed Startline again. She included income and expenditure 
forms and said from November I am getting back to operation for a limited hours, and I am 
looking to restart my direct debit this month. In this email she also explained I am awaiting 
to open [my] shop, following to our council resuming our services, as they couldnt carry 
repairs needed till October and we couldnt open due to lockdown. And, on 20 November 
2020, she started to make payments again.
In her correspondence to Startline, Mrs L initially told them she wanted to start making 
payments from 15 October 2020, but then said she wouldnt be able to start to make them 
until November 2020. Startline asked her to make a payment of £320 on 31 October 2020, to 
avoid the default. And they provided her with multiple methods by which she could do this.In her comments on the investigators view, Mrs L said that, had she received the payment 
details sooner, she wouldve made the payment in October 2020. But she acknowledged the 
payment details that Startline sent her on 31 October 2020, knowing that she needed to 
make a payment the same day. But she waited a further 20 days before making any 
payment. As such, Im in agreement that, had the payment details been provided earlier, its 
highly likely that Mrs L wouldnt have made any payment in October 2020. So, the default 
wouldnt have been avoided.
Mrs L has also commented on the difficulties she had getting through to Startline to discuss 
the situation. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. Government advice 
was for people to work from home where possible, and Startline wouldve needed to adapt 
their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, Startline 
experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
Mrs L also had Startlines email address and, and given her circumstances (which Startline 
werent made aware of until the agreement had been terminated), it was most likely easier 
for her to email Startline when she had time and felt well enough, instead of trying to call 
within a limited time frame each day, which may not have been convenient for her.
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mrs L trying to get through to Startline, I 
dont think Startline did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Startline dont need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman