DRN-4140008
The complaint
Mr C has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) added a 
welcome bonus of 20,000 points to his account which it later removed.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
The Terms and Conditions of the welcome offer state that the consumer must not have held 
a personal American Express card in the last 24 months. But explains that customers would 
be entitled to other card benefits, excluding the welcome offer.
AMEX has provided evidence to show that Mr C held a Gold Credit Card which he opened 
on 18 October 2022. From the evidence provided I can see 20,000 MR points were applied 
to this card on 20 January 2023. However, AMEX also provided evidence to show that he 
held a Gold Business Charge Card (which he is personally liable for) from July 2022. I can 
see from the evidence provided that on 13 September 2022, 20,000 MR points were applied 
to the account, due to the welcome bonus Mr C qualified for. So, Mr C had already received 
the welcome offer on his Charge Card in September 2022. And as 24 months hadnt passed 
(in line with the terms and conditions), he wouldnt have been eligible to benefit from the 
welcome offer on his Gold Card. Given this is outlined in the terms and conditions, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C ought to have been aware.
Mr C says he spent funds which he wouldnt have spent, but for AMEX enticing him to do 
so. Then when he met the criteria AMEX refused to honour the offer. While I appreciate 
Mr Cs frustrations, I dont think its reasonable to hold AMEX responsible for Mr Cs 
increased spending. I say this because, its important to note (as explained above) Mr C 
should have never qualified for the offer as it breached the Terms and Conditions. And as 
I have concluded above, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr C to be aware of the 
Terms and Conditions governing the offer prior to participating in it. Nonetheless, I have 
gone on to consider Mr Cs spending on his gold card. Mr C opened the card in 
October 2022. As such, I have considered Mr Cs spending between November and January 
2023 (when the points were added in error). As such, I am satisfied that Mr Cs spending 
during that time was consistent. However, it did increase in February 2023, but this was after 
the points had been applied. As such, I am not persuaded Mr Cs overall spending had 
increased solely to benefit from the welcome offer. 
Its not in dispute that AMEX made an error in applying the points to Mr Cs account. 
However, upon realising the error had occurred, it explained why it had happened and 
notified it members. Due to the error and inconvenience caused, AMEX agreed to re-credit 
Mr Cs account with 10,000 MR points, as a gesture of goodwill. Overall, Im satisfied this is 
a fair way to compensate Mr C for the inconvenience that was caused for the reasons I have 
explained above. So, it follows that I wont be asking AMEX to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman