DRN-3173233
The complaint
Mr K complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans lent to him irresponsibly 
and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr K was given a loan by Bamboo as follows: 
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal payable Loan status
6/03/2015 £5,000 60 months £197.09 £11,825.40 Paid in March 2020
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think that Bamboo 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr K and he set out the steps that Bamboo needed to 
take to put things right. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that 
 There was no evidence presented to suggest that this loan was not affordable and a new 
credit search shows that Mr Ks credit profile has significantly improved since taking out this 
Bamboo loan. This demonstrates that the lending decision caused no detriment to Mr K so it 
cant be described as irresponsible or unfair
 Bamboo specialises in lending to consumers who have an impaired credit history, providing 
customers with access to credit allowing them the opportunity to rebuild their credit profile by 
paying affordable payments on time. The new credit search obtained shows that the loan did 
exactly what it was designed to do.
 Bamboos affordability assessment demonstrated that Mr K could sustainably afford the 
loan and it verified that he had the income to support the repayment. Mr Ks most recent 
credit history at the time of application showed that he had the willingness and propensity to 
pay the Bamboo loan.
 Mr K made all the loan payments within a short time of their scheduled date which did not 
demonstrate that he couldnt afford them, but that he lacked the discipline to ensure they 
were made on time. Things improved and aside from a short time in the middle of the loan 
when Mr K had a reduced income due to being ill, the payment profile of the account was 
good and no negative information was recorded with credit reference agencies.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator and I am upholding Mr Ks complaint for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to 
keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Bamboo asked Mr K about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and it 
sent some of this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that Bamboo relied 
on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr K. 
The income and expenditure assessments done by Bamboo suggested that the loan 
potentially looked affordable for Mr K. When looking at what he could afford, it worked out 
that Mr K should still have more than £1,000 in disposable income bearing in mind his income and what he would be paying out. So Bamboo felt that the monthly repayments of 
£197.09 for this loan were affordable for Mr K.
But I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Ks overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending 
decision when it lent to Mr K based on the information it had gathered. I say this because, 
despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr K had enough spare cash each 
month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Bamboo shouldve realised that it 
couldnt rely on this information because what Mr K had declared was significantly at odds 
with what it saw on its credit checks showing Mr Ks credit history. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of Mr Ks total indebtedness and the 
defaulted accounts that Bamboo could see on the credit checks it obtained. He referred to 
the fact that in 2010 two mortgages had defaulted. The total defaulted amount shown on the 
credit report was around £90,000 (mostly on the mortgage accounts but two further accounts 
had defaulted in 2012 also). There was further evidence apparent that Mr K had struggled to 
maintain his payments to his creditors in the past as he also had two outstanding county 
court judgements, including one recorded in June 2014, just nine months before Bamboo 
agreed to lend to him. Bamboo was also able to see that Mr K had borrowed £5,000 from 
another high cost loan provider in February 2014 just a year or so earlier  and the 
outstanding balance owing on that loan was £4,723 so it was evident that hed likely be 
paying the monthly repayments of £197 alongside his Bamboo loan for the next few years.
I think Bamboo should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks painted a very 
different picture of Mr Ks finances compared to the financial situation he had described. And 
like our investigator, I think this credit history strongly suggested not only that Mr K had 
struggled financially in the past but that his money problems were ongoing  and crucially, 
he most likely didnt have the amount of disposable income that its calculations suggested or 
indeed any spare cash at all. The signs were that his finances were, in reality, under 
significant stress and his debt had already become unmanageable.
I agree with our investigator that Bamboo shouldve realised that Mr K was not in a position 
to sustainably repay another high-cost loan with repayments of around £197 each month, 
when he seemed to be already over-stretched financially and unable to pay his existing 
outstanding financial commitments. In saying this, I have noted that the amount of Mr Ks 
most recent county court judgement was £431 - this amount was barely more than two of the 
scheduled monthly payments on the loan it was providing. In these circumstances, I dont 
think that Mr K was in a position where Bamboo could safely say it looked likely hed be able 
to sustainably afford the repayments on this loan for the next five years. Although this was a 
guarantor loan, in other words someone else was responsible for making the monthly loan 
repayments if Mr K didnt pay, Bamboo still had to ensure that it was sustainably affordable 
for Mr K before agreeing to lend to him. 
And given that Bamboo was aware this money was going to be spent, rather than used to 
pay other debt, it should have been clear to Bamboo that Mr Ks financial situation was 
unlikely to be improved by taking out this loan with Bamboo. All in all, based on the 
information Bamboo had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able to say that the loan 
was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr K. So I cant reasonably say that it made a fair 
lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
The fact that Mr K was able to mostly pay the loan on time and ultimately repay it doesnt 
mean that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable  so this doesnt affect my 
overall view. In coming to my decision I havent seen anything to support Bamboos claim that a new 
credit search it obtained shows that the loan it provided helped Mr K to rebuild his credit 
profile. 
As Mr K has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bamboo should pay any additional redress. Mr K 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo acted 
unfairly towards Mr K in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. And 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. I understand that the loan is repaid with a 
nil balance owing so Bamboo should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ks credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman