DRN-4394184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to a Section 75 claim 
they made in relation to a solar panel system (the system). 
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs M purchased the system from a supplier. They paid for it using a loan 
from Shawbrook. They say they did so on the basis that the system would be self-funding, in 
that its financial benefits would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
In 2021, through a claims management company (the CMC), Mr and Mrs M made a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. They said that the system was not self-
funding in the way theyd been told, and that this misrepresentation had induced them to 
enter into the contract. 
Shawbrook responded to the claim to say it didnt think the system had been 
misrepresented. The CMC then made a complaint about this on behalf of Mr and Mrs M, but 
Shawbrook didnt change its decision. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. They said the complaint should be upheld. 
Shawbrook accepted this and made an offer to settle the complaint in line with our usual 
approach  which was to calculate the benefits of the system over the term of the loan and 
ensure that Mr and Mrs M paid no more than this for the system. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy. They felt it was not appropriate to base the settlement 
calculations on their estimated savings at the time of sale or to take account of future 
savings. Their usage had changed with fewer people living in the house and they were also 
in process of selling the house, which means they would not get any future benefits. 
Because our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has accepted our investigators assessment, so I dont need to decide if this 
complaint should be upheld  all parties are in agreement that it should. So, all I must decide 
is what Shawbrook must do to put things right. 
The usual remedy for misrepresentation is to cancel the contract and put the consumer back 
in the position theyd have been in if the misrepresentation didnt happen. This is because if 
it was not for the misrepresentation the consumer wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
purchase. 
However, in the case of solar panels that is impractical, since it would require the system to 
be removed, which is expensive and disruptive and could cause additional issues such as 
damage to the property. It also results in a perfectly good system being scrapped, when 
otherwise it would continue to generate renewable electricity for many years. So, with solar 
panels we take a different, more pragmatic, approach to putting things right. 
That approach is to have the financial business recalculate the original loan based on the 
known past and assumed future savings and income from the solar panels over a 
reasonable period (usually the loan term) so the consumer pays no more than that. We think 
our approach is fair and reasonable for both the consumer and the financial business, since 
it minimises cost and disruption, avoids the system being scrapped and (in most cases) 
allows the consumer to continue to benefit from the system. 
In this case Shawbrook has agreed that it will do that. But Mr and Mrs M dont think that is 
fair because their electricity usage (and therefore the savings they realised from the system) 
reduced and they are now selling the property, so will not receive benefits after the sale is 
completed. So, they would like the recalculation of the original loan to be adjusted to reflect 
this.
Im not persuaded that would be fair and reasonable in this case. This is because at the time 
of sale the supplier based its estimated benefits on Mr and Mrs Ms electricity usage at that 
time. I dont think the supplier wouldve been aware that Mr and Mrs Ms usage would 
change dramatically or that they would sell the house, nor do I think they ought reasonably 
to have been aware of those things. 
In any case, Shawbrook will base the calculation on Mr and Mrs Ms actual usage if they 
provide electricity bills that show this. And when selling the house, the sale price would take 
account of the presence and benefits of the system, so I think Mr and Mrs M will be 
compensated for the lost future benefits of the system through the sale proceeds. That being 
the case it would not be appropriate for Shawbrook to also compensate them for losing 
those benefits.  
Because of this, Im satisfied that Shawbrook can settle this complaint in line with our usual 
approach, which I set out below. 
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs M from the solar panels over the 
original term of the loan, so they pay no more than that. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs M are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr and Mrs Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs M in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the original loan term.Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs M have the following options as 
to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M, and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M, and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs M accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest per year for the time theyve been without that money.
If Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs M first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Shawbrook to put things 
right as set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman