DRN-4005589
The complaint
Mrs K complains that when her cat required blood tests prior to surgery Pinnacle Insurance 
Plc deducted a second excess from the payment they made to her, when shed already paid 
an excess in respect of her claim for the cost of the surgery.
What happened
Mrs K had insurance for her cat with Pinnacle. In May 2022 the cat required surgery to 
remove a large mass on her dorsal thoracic/intrascapular area. The surgery was due to take 
place on 16 May 2022 but when the vet was trying to insert an intravenous catheter, which 
was essential for the general anaesthetic, excessive bleeding and veins blowing from 
multiple sites occurred. So the vet decided to delay the surgery, in the interests of the cats 
welfare. And recommended a blood test to check her clotting parameters, as there was a 
risk of haemorrhage when the mass was removed.
When Mrs K submitted a claim for the cost of the blood test this was initially declined by 
Pinnacle, as they said her policy didnt cover the cost of any routine or investigative tests, 
including pre-operative blood tests, unless they were to diagnose a condition due to existing 
symptoms.
Mrs K raised a complaint with Pinnacle and her vet wrote to them on her behalf saying the 
blood test was necessary to check the cats clotting parameters, to ensure there wasnt a 
risk of a haemorrhage during surgery.
Pinnacle then agreed to cover the cost of the blood test, but said their veterinary advisor had  
advised them that the blood test wasnt directly related to the mass removal. So they 
covered the blood test as a necessary diagnostic test under a new claim for a coagulopathy 
condition, and deducted Mrs Ks excess of £99, from the amount they paid. 
Mrs K wasnt happy that Pinnacle deducted a further excess from her claim, as shed already 
paid an excess on her claim for her cats surgery. So she complained to our service. 
Our investigator considered the case and upheld Mrs Ks complaint. She said she was 
satisfied that the claim related to one condition, as the blood test was recommended due to 
a risk of the cat haemorrhaging during the removal of her mass. And the cats clinical 
records didnt support the presence of any other condition. So she said Pinnacle should 
refund Mrs Ks policy excess and pay her £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
their poor customer service.
Mrs K accepted our investigators opinion, but Pinnacle didnt and requested a decision. 
They then asked for the referral for a decision to be delayed as they wished to consider the 
case further.
On 28 November 2022 they told us that theyd referred the case to their vet and provided a 
note setting out her opinion. The vet said that when the cat was being catheterised in 
preparation for surgery, excessive bruising/bleeding was noted from the catheter site. So it 
was decided to check the cats clotting abilities before proceeding with the surgery. The 
blood test showed no evidence of coagulopathy (a condition affecting how blood clots), so 
the mass was removed on 13 June 2023 and histology showed a soft tissue (likely injection 
site) sarcoma with unclear margins.
The vet goes on to say that sarcomas dont directly cause coagulopathies and she thought it 
unlikely that the excessive bleeding was caused by the medication the cat was given, or by 
the sedation/anaesthetic itself. So she concluded that if there was a clotting issue it was 
caused by something underlying and unrelated to the surgery. So in her view it was 
reasonable to charge a second excess and treat the bloods as an investigation into a 
possible coagulopathy, rather than as part of the mass removal.
Our investigator asked Mrs K to get her vets comments on what Pinnacles vet had said. 
Her vet confirmed that she agreed that there was no direct correlation between the cats soft 
tissue sarcoma and a coagulopathy. But due to the size the mass had reached, 5-7cm in 
length by the time of the surgery, and the fact it was so invasive and aggressively adhered to 
underlying muscles and fascia (multiple blood vessels required ligation), she felt theyd have 
been negligent if theyd proceeded without blood investigations, and putting the cat at that 
level of risk was unacceptable. And the removal of a large vascular mass with evidence of 
uncontrollable haemorrhage during the pre-op preparation wouldnt have been advisable. 
As no clotting issue was identified by the coagulation investigations she said it couldnt be 
concluded that there was a separate and unrelated condition.
Our investigator considered the opinion from both vets and issued a further view. She still 
felt Mrs Ks claim should be upheld. She said that as no clotting condition was found, the 
need for the blood test was more likely to be linked to the mass removal surgery as there 
was no evidence of the cat having a second condition. And it was unfair for Pinnacle to have 
charged a further excess fee. So she said they should refund this and pay Mrs K 8% interest 
from the date the excess fee was charged. And also pay her £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their handling of her claim.
Mrs K accepted our investigators further opinion, but Pinnacle didnt. They maintain that 
their vets opinion is correct and that while no reason was found for the bleeding or bruising 
noted on cannulation, they were satisfied it wasnt related to the lump or any medication 
given in preparation for surgery. So they say its unreasonable to consider that the claim was 
only for one condition.
The case has now come to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks certificate of insurance confirms that in the policy year from 28 January 2022 to 27 
January 2023 her policy excess was £99 per condition, per year. So what I need to decide is 
whether her cat needed blood tests as part of the surgery to remove mass on her dorsal 
thoracic/intrascapular area, or whether these were needed because of a second unrelated 
condition. If its the latter then it would be reasonable for Pinnacle to deduct a second 
excess. 
When Mrs Ks vet inserted a catheter on 16 May 2022, she was concerned about the level of 
bleeding and the condition of the cats veins. She felt it wasnt safe to proceed with the 
surgery, due to the possibility of haemorrhage, until the cats clotting factors had been checked.  That seems entirely reasonable and exactly what Id expect the vet to do in the 
circumstances.
Pinnacles vet has said that the bleeding wasnt related to the mass, or to the drugs the cat 
had been given. So she concluded that if there was a clotting issue it was caused by 
something underlying and unrelated to the surgery. And it was reasonable to treat the blood 
test as an investigation into a possible coagulopathy, rather than as part of the mass 
removal.
Mrs Ks vet accepts that theres no direct correlation between the cats soft tissue sarcoma 
and a coagulopathy. But shes said that due to the size and nature of the mass, it would 
have been negligent to proceed with the surgery without blood investigations, as it would 
have put the cat at an unacceptable level of risk.
We know that the blood test didnt show any clotting issues. And Mrs Ks vet has said that 
because of this it couldnt be concluded that there was a separate and unrelated condition.
Looking at the wording on Mrs Ks certificate of insurance it says the excess is £99 per 
condition per year. And here we dont have any confirmation of a second condition. What 
we have is a vet saying blood tests were required to ensure it was safe to proceed with 
surgery, as they were worried about the risk of haemorrhage. And that risk flows directly 
from the surgery being carried out to remove the cats mass.
So Im persuaded, on balance, that the need for the blood test is directly related to the cats 
mass removal surgery. And it was therefore unreasonable for Pinnacle to deduct a further 
£99 excess from Mrs Ks claim for the cost of the blood test.
Mrs K has told us about the impact how Pinnacle have dealt with her claim has had on her 
and I accept this. 
Its sad to hear that shes had to have her cat put to sleep. I understand how difficult it is to 
lose a pet and Mrs K has my sympathy.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Pinnacle to refund Mrs K the £99 deducted from her claim for the 
cost of the blood test, together with 8% simple interest from the date the deduction was 
made until payment.
And to pay her £50 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of how 
Pinnacle have dealt with her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint about 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
And to put things right I require them to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman