DRN-2521274
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has continued to charge them the full 
monthly fee for their Platinum account during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs R hold a joint value-added Platinum account with Lloyds. The account attracts 
a monthly £21 fee. In return it offers a range of benefits over and above a fee free account. 
This includes (but is not limited to): car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and 
worldwide travel insurance.
Mr K and Mrs R say Lloyds should have charged less for the account in 2020 as they 
havent been able to use some of the benefits due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In particular, 
they point out that the travel restrictions implemented during this time meant they were 
unable to travel. When the fee wasnt automatically reduced, Mr K and Mrs R complained to 
Lloyds.
Lloyds responded to Mr K and Mrs Rs complaint. In doing so, it acknowledged that there 
had been a delay in responding to the complaint due to the impact the pandemic had had on 
its service levels. So, it paid Mr K and Mrs R £30 compensation in recognition of this.
But it didnt offer a refund of the account fee. It said that the Platinum account comes with a 
range of benefits, not all of which were affected by the pandemic. It said it was                         
Mr K and Mrs R choice to have a Platinum account and it was for them to decide if the 
account still met their needs. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr K and Mrs R referred the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it but concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint.  
Mr K and Mrs R didnt accept this outcome and they asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. They reiterated that Lloyds should have reduced the cost of the account 
when the pandemic started to reflect the benefits they could no longer use. So, the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know                   
Mr K and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to explain that the monthly fee applicable to a Platinum account 
is for the account as a whole, rather than parts of the fee being apportioned to each 
individual benefit. 
And, when one of these accounts is taken out, its not expected that every account holder 
will be interested in, or indeed use, every benefit. When such an account is opened, it is for 
the customer to decide if the monthly fee represents good value for the benefits they are 
interested in and intend to use. And that remains the case throughout the life of the account. 
I can see that Mr K and Mrs R have told us that they have made use of some of the benefits 
of the Platinum account - such as breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. And Ive 
seen no reason why they couldnt have continued to do so. So, I dont think they took the 
Platinum account for the travel insurance alone. 
But even if that was the case, as mentioned above, I think it was for Mr K and Mrs R to 
decide  when the pandemic started, if the account fee still represented good value for the 
benefits they could still make use of during this time. And if they didnt think this was the 
case, I think it was for them to contact Lloyds and ask to have their account moved back to a 
fee free account or any other available account that was more suited to them at the time. But 
I havent seen anything that suggests that they did. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr K and Mrs Rs disappointment at not being able to fully use the 
travel insurance benefit during periods of 2020 and indeed more recently, I dont think Lloyds 
was obliged to reduce the cost of the Platinum account for the months when travel 
restrictions were in place.
I note that Lloyds response to the complaint was delayed. It has paid Mr K and Mrs R £30 
compensation in recognition of this. I think that is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman