DRN-2767980
The complaint
Mrs W complains The Co-operative Bank Plc blocked her debit card and when she 
complained she didnt receive a written response setting out the banks position.
What happened
Mrs W has a bank account with Co-op Bank. She received several calls and an automated 
message all purporting to be from the Co-op Bank. She thought they were part of a scam 
and as a result she terminated the calls and didnt respond to the message.
In fact, the calls and message were from Co-op Bank. It was trying to contact her because a 
transaction on her account was flagged as a suspected fraudulent transaction.
On 26 May 2020, Mrs W tried to use her debit card to pay for her shopping. Due to the block, 
the card was declined. 
Mrs W complained to Co-op Bank. On a call it explained following the suspected fraudulent 
transaction it had tried to contact her. When it didnt make contact, it had blocked the card. 
During the call it unblocked the card. Mrs W was unhappy with the verification process using 
automated calls and texts particularly given recent scams involving the fraudsters pretending 
to be a bank. A couple of days later Mrs W received a letter which said her complaint had 
been resolved over a telephone call. Mrs W didnt agree.
Mrs W didnt feel the complaint had been resolved. She felt the way Co-op Bank contacted 
her  to verify her activity - was harassing and that by blocking the card it had caused her 
embarrassment when she tried to pay for her shopping.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She referred to the terms and 
conditions of the bank account which permit Co-op Bank to decline a transaction in certain 
circumstances. She felt that due to its concerns about the account Co-op Bank acted 
reasonably when it blocked her account. She understood Mrs Ws concerns about the 
verification process but didnt think she could say the bank had done anything wrong. She 
thought it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs W to have contacted the Co-op Bank to confirm 
if the communications were legitimate. 
Mrs W disagrees. She says, after receiving automated phone calls, it is not her job to 
investigate whether they are scam or not. She says as well as complaining about the 
blocked card she is also complaining about the bank ignoring most of her emails and 
requests for an explanation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ws frustration here. It must have been embarrassing for her when her card 
was declined. I understand her concerns about responding to automated calls and texts. She 
doesnt think it is her job to investigate whether the calls were scams or not. I agree it isnt 
her job to do that. But I think it would have been sensible to contact the bank just to check 
everything was okay with her account. If she had done this then I think her card wouldnt 
have been declined and she would have been spared the embarrassment. As it was Co-op 
Bank had a flagged transaction it hadnt been able to verify, and in these circumstances, I 
think it was reasonable for it to block the card to protect her money.
Ive listened to her call making the complaint. I think the call handler explained Co-op Banks 
position well. I appreciate Mrs W was frustrated with the written response she got from the 
bank, but I think she is now clear what has happened, and I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman