DRN-3501353
The complaint
Mr N complains that Halifax, a division of Bank of Scotland plc , were unable to complete an 
ISA transfer for him. And unable to tell him where his funds had gone. He would like Halifax 
to transfer his ISA.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr N that his ISA transfer request failed 
as the methods Halifax uses to make such transfers werent acceptable to the 
company Mr N wanted the funds transferred to .Its a business decision as to what 
processes to use and not something we can interfere with. And I cant tell Halifax to 
make the transfer to Mr Ns chosen provider if it doesnt accept Halifaxs transfer 
methods.
I appreciate Mr N may have lost the opportunity to take out an ISA with a higher rate 
of interest . But I cant say that this is Halifaxs fault. The CHAPS transfer method it 
used is a standard method to transfer money. It did make the transfer, it was the 
receiving company that wouldnt accept it.
I also appreciate it must have been frustrating, and worrying ,for Mr N not to know 
where his money was  since he has told us for a period both his Halifax account and 
new provider account showed a zero balance . I understand that , being unable to 
make the transfer, Halifax opened a new ISA to put the funds into. 
Halifax has accepted Mr Ns comments that he had to make numerous calls and was 
given conflicting information . It has paid Mr N £300 compensation to reflect this and I 
think that is reasonable in the circumstances
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman