DRN-3638874
The complaint
Mr E complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile) unfairly holds him 
responsible for the repayment of lending given to finance goods which he says he returned.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr E purchased a mobile phone and an accessory using a fixed sum loan 
provided by Virgin Mobile. Around a week later Mr E asked to return the goods as they 
werent suitable. 
Virgin Mobile sent Mr E a prepaid jiffy bag to return the goods and Mr E says they were 
subsequently returned using that service. Mr E says he asked Virgin Mobile if the goods had 
been received on a number of subsequent occasions, and he was told the goods were in its 
warehouse.
Virgin Mobile then asked Mr E to make repayments under his agreement on the basis that it 
hadnt received the goods back. Mr E told it the goods had been returned and Virgin Mobile 
asked him to provide evidence of postage, but he said that hed disposed of that evidence 
five or six weeks after posting. Mr E raised a complaint about what had happened.
Virgin Mobile said that Mr E had told it hed returned the goods via a postal service other 
than the one intended to be used with the jiffy bag provided. As he didnt have any proof of 
postage and it still hadnt received the goods, Virgin Mobile maintained that Mr E was 
responsible for repaying the lending it provided him. 
Mr E referred the matter to this service. Our investigator was persuaded by evidence Virgin 
Mobile provided which showed the barcode for the jiffy bag it sent to Mr E had not been 
scanned by the courier. They concluded the goods were likely not returned via Virgin 
Mobiles returns process. They said that if Mr E had used an alternative postal service and 
the goods had gone missing, it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for that. They also said 
that they wouldve expected Mr E to retain evidence of postage given that he hadnt been 
told the items had been returned successfully.
Mr E disagreed. He said that hed called Virgin Mobile every week for six weeks regarding 
the return and was repeatedly told the goods were in its warehouse before he disposed of 
proof of postage.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es complaint is about a whether or not Virgin Mobile is acting fairly in relation to a fixed 
sum loan. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to 
consider a complaint about. 
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive given careful thought to Mr Es version of events in concluding whether or not its fair for 
Virgin Mobile to ask him to repay the lending. All things considered, I think Virgin Mobile is 
acting fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr E says that he used the prepaid service provided by Virgin Mobile to return the goods, 
and that he called to check theyd been received each subsequent week. Virgin Mobile has 
provided its contact notes which dont represent that. It shows that Mr E made contact on a 
few occasions towards the end of the first week of May 2021  firstly to say that hed not 
received the prepaid jiffy bag, and then to chase receipt. The notes dont represent further 
contact from Mr E regarding the return of the goods until June 2021, at which point he raised 
a complaint about being asked for repayment.
Virgin Mobiles said that the relevant call recordings to this case arent available. I accept its 
possible that some calls made by Mr E could have been missed from Virgin Mobiles contact 
notes, by way of error, for example. That being said, I think it unlikely that repeated weekly 
calls couldve all been omitted. I also find it unlikely that Mr E was told that the goods had 
been received in a warehouse, particularly because theres reference in the notes to the 
goods not having been received and no record of prepaid return service having been used. I 
wouldnt have expected Virgin Mobile to give Mr E updates about not having received the 
goods. 
Virgin Mobile has provided evidence that the tracking number associated with the prepaid 
return service for Mr Es goods was not scanned. Mr E has asserted that service was used, 
and he was given receipt of postage. I find it likely that if that had been the case then the 
tracking service would represent that. I think its improbable that Mr E was given a receipt for 
postage using that service given the absence of evidence to demonstrate it.
Theres been some debate about whether Mr E couldve used an alternative postal service, 
but Im aware he disputes that was the case. Even if I entertained it as a possibility though, I 
dont think itd be fair to tell Virgin Mobile not to require repayment of the lending on the basis 
that the goods went missing under the care of a courier other than the service it had 
provided.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr E used the prepaid service provided by Virgin Mobile to 
return the goods, nor that it received the goods. Im also not persuaded that Virgin Mobiles 
actions couldve reasonably caused Mr E to believe that the goods had been returned and 
he ought to dispose of any evidence of postage he had.
In light of the above, I find that Virgin Mobile is acting fairly by asking Mr E to repay the 
lending it gave him on the basis that it provided Mr E with the goods it was obliged to under 
the agreement, and didnt receive them back, through no fault of its own.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman