DRN-3786177
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted AA to report the roof to the outbuilding on his property had been damaged in 
a storm. AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. It then declined the claim because it said 
the damage was the result of the pre-existing condition of the property, which had left it more 
susceptible to damage.
When Mr B complained, AA maintained its position that it had been correct to decline the 
claim. So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it was reasonable for AA to decline the claim due to the pre-existing condition of the 
roof, which meant the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
The policy said storm conditions were wind speeds of at least 55mph. AA hasnt disputed 
there was a storm around the time of the damage. Ive looked at weather reports from 
around the time of the damage and this showed wind speeds around the figure stated in the 
policy, so I think its fair that AA accepted there was a storm.
The damage was to roof panels and I think this is consistent with the type of damage a storm 
could cause. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
For the third question, Ive read the surveyors report which was completed following the 
inspection of Mr Bs outbuilding. This is very brief and contains almost no description of what 
the surveyor found during the visit. The only description of the external damage was St[or]m 
damage to steel sheet roof area of large outbuilding. In answer to the question Any pre-
existing or ongoing external buildings defects/issues that are not peril related?, the surveyor 
answered no. Based on this limited information, I think it is reasonable to conclude that the 
surveyor assessed there was storm damage to the roof and that there werent pre-existing 
issues that had contributed to the damage. However, the claim was then referred back to AA 
because the surveyor didnt have the authority to make the decision on the claim. 
Following an internal assessment by AA the claim was then declined. So, Ive looked at the 
reasons for this. AAs main concern seemed to be that there was no door on the outbuilding 
and so it discussed internally whether it should provide cover. It then declined the claim 
because:
the main cause of the damage to property isnt directly related to the storm winds. The 
winds have highlighted existing defects in the roofing structure. Although the large opening 
has been there since the building was constructed, if there was a door there the winds would 
have been prevented from entering the building and therefore a vacuum effect wouldnt have 
been created dislodging the roof sheets. The main cause of damage to the property has 
been pre-existing condition of the property which has left it more susceptible to damage due 
to its age and design.
It quoted a general exclusion that said it wouldnt cover:
Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear and 
tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
I havent currently seen evidence that shows there were existing defects in the roofing 
structure. The surveyor didnt note any when he visited the property. Ive also looked at the 
surveyors photos and although I can see issues with the roof, I havent seen anything that 
shows those issues were there before the storm damage, rather than caused by it, 
particularly as the surveyor confirmed there were no defects that werent peril related.
Ive also thought about the issue of there being no door on the outbuilding. AA seems to 
have put some weight on this as a reason to decline the claim. But I dont think the absence 
of a door can fairly be described as a gradually operating cause, which is the exclusion AA 
has relied on. A gradually operating cause, as defined by the policy, is issues such as wear 
and tear.
I also didnt see any reference to a vacuum effect in the information provided to this service 
by AA, apart from in the letter sent to Mr B in response to his complaint. So, I havent 
currently seen anything to show how it reached the conclusion this was what happened or 
any evidence that the damage to the roof was the result of anything other than a one-off 
event around the time of the claim.
I also note that when AA explained to this service why it thought it was reasonable to decline 
the claim, it said:
the building has open apertures where a door and window should be.  These open 
apertures havent protected the building from the winds and allowed winds to cause damage 
that may not have occurred if the door and windows were there.
However, when it described the circumstances of the claim it said:
metal roof panels has lifted on out building. A window has been blown out as well
So, AAs files noted that the window formed part of the claim, but seemed to suggest to this 
service that the window was a pre-existing issue.
Based on what Ive currently seen, I dont think it was reasonable for AA to decline the claim. 
The brief findings from the surveyor seemed to conclude the storm was the cause and 
although AA has then tried to apply an exclusion, I havent currently seen evidence of a 
gradually operating cause that was more likely the main cause of the damage. As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require AA to settle the claim for 
damage to the outbuilding. If AA pays a cash settlement for the claim, it should pay interest 
on that amount because Mr B has lost use of that money.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 1 November 2022.
Mr B agreed with my decision.
AA acknowledged receipt of my decision but didnt provide any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change how I think this complaint should 
be resolved.
Putting things right
AA should settle the claim for the outbuilding. If it pays a cash settlement, it should pay 
interest on that amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
settle the claim for damage to the outbuilding
if it pays a cash settlement, pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on 
which the claim was first made to the date on which the money is paid to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman