DRN-1998676
The complaint
This complaint is about the compensation offered by Lloyds Bank PLC for the mis-sale of 
payment protection insurance (PPI) attached to a credit card.
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card account with Lloyds. At the same time he was sold PPI. Over 
time there were four linked credit cards ending 3262, 5224,8707 and 4252.
The representatives of Mr Hs estate complained to Lloyds about the sale of the PPI. In 2017 
Lloyds agreed to uphold the complaint and made an offer to compensate Mr Hs estate.  In 
February 2019 Lloyds made an updated offer.
The representatives of Mr Hs estate remained unhappy with the offer made by Lloyds and 
asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought Lloyds offer was fair and had been calculated in the 
way wed expect.
Mr Hs representatives didnt agree with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation for the mis-sale of the 
PPI. So I wont look into how the PPI policy came to be sold. Instead, Ive looked at what 
Lloyds has done to put things right. 
Lloyds has agreed to compensate Mr Hs estate for the sale of the credit card PPI policy. So, 
as far as is possible, Id expect it to return the estate to the position it would be in if the PPI 
had not been sold. To do this Id expect Lloyds to refund everything the PPI cost Mr H, plus 
pay 8% simple interest for the time the estate was out of pocket. 
I can see the credit card and PPI were taken out in April 1998. But Lloyds doesnt have any 
records of what Mr H actually paid before January 2000. I dont find this surprising given the 
time thats passed.  After January 2000 Lloyds has statement data available so it knows the 
actual amounts Mr H was charged for PPI.  
Using the actual statement data it holds, Lloyds has offered to repay to Mr Hs estate all the 
actual premiums and the interest he was charged after January 2000.
For the period before January 2000 Lloyds has estimated what the PPI cost Mr H using the 
information it has about the way he used the card after January 2000. It then worked out  
what the balance on Mr Hs card would likely have been from April 1998 to December 1999. 
I think this is a fair approach to take when there is missing data. And Ive looked at the 
estimates its made and I think Lloyds has used fair assumptions for the time before January 
2000 when it has no accurate data.  
Lloyds has also calculated interest at 8% simple per year as compensation for the time Mr H 
and his estate didnt have use of this money. 
Ive also looked carefully at the actual calculations made by Lloyds and the statements it 
provided. I note that in some instances there is more than one statement for the same 
month. For instance in May 2005 I can see four separate statements, one for each card 
number. But I see that three of the statements show a zero balance and zero credit limit and 
only one (8707) shows a charge for PPI for £35.94. And I can see this is the amount Lloyds 
has used in its calculations. So I am satisfied all the four cards were linked and the 
calculation takes account of PPI charged across all four cards.
In summary from what Ive seen I think Lloyds has made fair assumptions about the way    
Mr H used his card before January 2000. And from these estimates and the statements it 
holds from after January 2000 its worked out what hed wouldve likely paid for the PPI. And 
I think Lloyds has calculated its offer in the way Id expect it to.
 
So I think Lloyds has acted fairly when it calculated the compensation and I wont be asking 
it to do anymore.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
representative of the estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
8 September 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman