DRN-3651878
The complaint
Mr N complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs actions after it took the decision to close his 
account.
 
What happened
HSBC took the decision to close Mr Ns account in 2018. Mr N complained about HSBCs 
decision and referred the matter to this service. An ombudsman issued a final decision in 
2019 but didnt find HSBC had treated Mr N unfairly and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Last year, Mr N referred another complaint to us concerning a different account closure and 
HSBCs branch staff. An investigator considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. 
More recently, Mr Ns Member of Parliament (MP) contacted HSBC. Mr N says HSBC went 
on to share personal information about him with his MP. Mr N also complained that HSBC 
had obtained alternate bank details for him and that it had added a do not use notation to 
his systems profile. HSBC also closed another account Mr N had opened. 
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ns complaints and he referred the matter to this service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ns case and explained we wouldnt comment again on issues 
that were covered in previous investigations. So we wouldnt be able to talk about the 
circumstances under which Mr Ns account was closed or the issues dealt with last year. 
The investigator didnt think HSBC had treated Mr N unfairly and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr N asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this complaint. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be 
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome.
As noted by the investigator, in this case Im only going to comment on issues that havent 
previously been considered by this service. So the complaint points covered in the 2019 final 
decision and last years investigation wont form part of the findings in this decision. That 
being said, I want to assure Mr N that Ive read and considered all the supporting information 
provided. 
Mr N raises concerns that HSBC gave information about his behaviour to his MP. But I 
havent found evidence to support that. HSBC received contact from Mr Ns MPs office. 
HSBC responded and explained it had contacted Mr N directly about the issues raised. But 
HSBC said it couldnt share private information with a third party so didnt provide further 
comment. Ive seen no evidence HSBC shared Mr Ns information with anyone else. 
HSBC transferred funds to Mr Ns close account to another account with a different bank. 
Mr N says he didnt provide new account details to HSBC. But the member of staff 
concerned at HSBC has also provided their comments. The staff member says Mr N 
provided the details to arrange closure of his account. They say Mr N went on to credit two 
payments of 1p to stop his account with HSBC closing which was transferred on. The case 
handler also says they used a branch phone to call Mr N. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
based on all the available information and evidence. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr N doesnt recall providing his bank details, I think thats the most 
likely explanation. I see no other way that HSBC couldve obtained the bank details in 
question. Mr N has told us hes concerned that his account details were illegally obtained but 
I havent seen any evidence to support that view. Ultimately, the account details were used 
to ensure funds form Mr Ns closed account were transferred on. In addition, the member of 
staff confirms they called Mr Ns phone using a branch number, not their personal mobile. 
On balance, Im satisfied thats the case. 
HSBC has explained the do not use notation is used internally on its systems only and is 
not reported to the credit reference agencies. HSBC has confirmed it has no external impact 
on Mr N and is solely used as a systems measure. Whilst I understand Mr Ns concern, I 
havent found that HSBCs use of the notation is unreasonable. 
As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr Ns complaints fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman