DRN-4521956
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Phoenix Life Limited wont pay an additional contribution 
of £250 on a policy Mrs P held with a funeral benefit option selected. The estate is 
represented by Mrs Ps son and executor, Mr P.
What happened
In brief summary, in April 2010, Mrs P took out an insurance policy with Phoenix, trading as 
Sun Life. The policy had a cash value of £535. Mrs P later added a funeral benefit option to 
the policy. Upon her death, the value of the policy was to be paid to a company Ill call C, 
once the funeral arrangements had been provided. And in this scenario, Mrs Ps estate 
would benefit from an additional £250 contribution on top of the cash sum in the policy 
towards her funeral costs. 
Sadly, Mrs P died in June 2023. However, her funeral was funded by a separate pre-paid 
funeral plan shed bought from C in July 2013. As a consequence, the cash sum in Mrs Ps 
policy reverted to her estate.
Mr P, on behalf of the estate, was unhappy, saying that by not being able to exercise the 
funeral benefit option on Mrs Ps plan with Phoenix  because Mrs Ps funeral was already 
paid for directly with C - the estate had lost the additional £250 contribution available under 
the funeral benefit option. 
Mr P complained, but Phoenix didnt accept that the £250 should form part of the cash sum 
payable under the policy, so Mr P came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator didnt think Phoenix need to pay more than the cash sum, so Mr P escalated his 
complaint to ombudsman for a final decision. 
Mr P will be aware that Im familiar with and appreciate the wider circumstances of his 
dissatisfaction with C, as well as Phoenix, having previously issued a final decision in 
respect of his complaint against C.
To clarify, Mr P also raised some other complaints points about Phoenix, but accepted an 
offer of compensation from Phoenix in respect of those matters, prior to requesting a final 
decision on the £250 additional contribution under the funeral benefit option. My decision 
therefore relates solely to the complaint point about the £250 additional contribution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be unwelcome news for Mr 
P. Ill explain my reasons.
I acknowledge that Mrs P added the funeral benefit option to her policy. However, she later 
bought a pre-paid funeral plan with C, which covered the cost of her chosen requirements at 
the time of need. 
As her funeral was pre-paid, there was no option to use her policy to go towards her funeral 
costs. The additional contribution is only applied where the policy is used against the cost of 
a funeral. This didnt happen, so only the cash sum is payable. 
I understand Mr P feels the two companies involved have not acted with full transparency in 
this situation. However, there was no additional cost to Mrs P of selecting the funeral benefit 
option. The cash sum remains unaltered and theres nothing in the terms to suggest that the 
£250 would be added to the cash sum should the funeral benefit option not be exercised. It 
was simply an additional sum that would be deducted from the cost of the funeral, should the 
cash sum be used towards the funeral costs. So I dont think Phoenix is under any obligation 
to pay the estate anything more than the cash sum.
For these reasons I dont think Phoenix needs to take any further action regarding the £250 
additional contribution. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman