DRN-2695943
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance (VWFS) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mr A entered a HPA with VWFS in March 2017 to acquire a new car. He has explained that 
after a few months he noticed a fault with the multimedia screen which he reported to the 
dealer. The fault couldnt be found, and Mr A says he was told to keep an eye on it and 
come back if the issue continued. Mr A says that the issue did continue which he reported, 
and that he had video evidence. Because of this issue Mr A says the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
VWFS says that Mr A acquired the car in March 2017 and reported the issue in July 2020. It 
said issues can arise over time and that it didnt think the issue was present at the point of 
supply. Because of this it didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt accept VWFS view and raised his complaint with this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr A hadnt been able to provide 
evidence to show that the issue with the multimedia screen was present or developing at the 
point of supply. He said the dealer confirmed the issue was first reported in September 2018, 
18 months after acquisition and no fault was found. The dealer then said the car was 
returned with the same issue in July 2020 and August 2020 by which time the car had been 
driven over 40,000 miles. Our investigator said he couldnt conclude from the evidence that 
the issue with the multimedia screen was present from the point of supply. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he reported the issue to the 
dealer within a few months and was told to keep an eye on it. He said the issue never went 
away but was intermittent and that he wasnt told of the options available to him. He said the 
fault shouldnt have happened in a new car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr A acquired a new car through a HPA with VWFS. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), VWFS can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable 
person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. As the car was new at 
acquisition, it is reasonable that Mr A would expect it to be free from faults including 
minor defects.
Mr A has explained that he reported the issue with the multimedia screen a few 
months after acquisition. I can understand why this was upsetting and appreciate that 
Mr A has explained the issue was intermittent. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I need to be satisfied any issue were due to faults present or developing at 
the point of supply. In this case Mr A raised his complaint with VWFS in July 2020 
although I appreciate he had raised this previously with the dealer. The dealer has 
provided information saying the issue was first raised in September 2018 when no 
fault was found. As this was around 18 months after acquisition I would need further 
evidence to show that the issue was due to a fault that was present or developing at 
the point of supply. 
I note Mr As comment about the ongoing conversations he had and delays in getting 
the car looked at and based on the information from the dealer it appears the car was 
returned in July and August 2020 for the same issue. I can understand why Mr A is 
upset that his car has experienced an issue after having acquired it new, but I do not 
find based on the evidence I have seen that I can be satisfied the issue was present 
or developing at the point of supply.
I have considered whether the car was sufficiently durable. In this case the car was 
returned to the dealer in September 2018 after Mr A was able to drive over 18,000 
miles. It was then returned in July 2020 after being driven over 40,000 miles. Given 
the timing and nature of the issue and that it doesnt appear to have had an impact 
on Mr As ability to make use of the car, I do not find I have enough to say the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable at the point of acquisition.
Overall, I can understand why Mr A is upset but without evidence to show the issue with the 
multimedia screen was present or developing at acquisition I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman