DRN-4417459
The complaint
Mr W complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) unfairly refused 
to provide a refund of premium when he cancelled his Repair and Cover Insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ill only briefly summarise 
them here:
In April 2023 Mr W purchased a policy to cover his dishwasher for repairs. He paid 
the premium in full rather than paying on a monthly basis.
Fortegra issued the policy and an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
which summarised the main cover provided by the policy.
Mr W tells us he cancelled the policy as he decided to purchase a new dishwasher.
Mr W says he requested a partial refund of his premium and hasnt received this.
Fortegra hasnt provided Mr W with a final response. It has provided limited 
information to this service and says the complaint is about repairs to the dishwasher. 
It adds that the insurance policy only comes into force after the initial repair is 
successful so is out of jurisdiction for this service. 
Our investigator said whilst there is a term that says the policy comes into force after 
a successful repair that doesnt mean we cant consider the case. She looked at the 
cancellation terms in the policy and said as there hadnt been a successful claim Mr 
W was entitled to a refund of premium on a pro-rata basis.
Fortegra didnt agree so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons.
 
Im aware Fortegra have raised a jurisdiction issue. However, the crux of this complaint is 
that Mr W purchased a policy and paid the annual premium, he later cancelled the policy and 
didnt receive a refund. Mr W isnt complaining about the attempted repairs to his dishwasher 
and the arguments as to when the cover provided by the policy comes into force is a moot 
point. Mr W is complaining Fortegra has unfairly dealt with the cancellation of the policy and 
in the circumstances of this case Im satisfied this is a complaint we can consider.
Having determined the complaint falls in our jurisdiction Ive gone on to consider the merits 
of the case. 
I note the relevant sections of the policy terms say:
You may cancel Your Policy at any time after the initial twenty-one (21) days 
Changing Your Mind period
Should you wish to cancel the Repair and Cover after a successful Initial Repair, You 
will be liable to pay a fee of £85 immediately before any cancellation is actioned
If the premium has been paid in full, You shall be entitled to a pro rata refund calculated 
on the number of days remaining on cover if You have not made a successful claim on 
this Policy.
I find these terms clear. 
Fortegra havent disputed Mr W paid the premium in full or disputed that he cancelled the 
policy.
In this case there hasnt been a successful initial repair, the repairs attempted did not 
remedy the issues with Mr Ws dishwasher and he chose to purchase a new dishwasher and 
cancel the policy. Im satisfied that as Mr W hasnt made a successful claim he is entitled to 
a refund.
The IPID confirms the policy start date was 14 April 2023 and the premium was £168.87. 
Fortegra havent confirmed the cancellation date but from documents Mr W has shared I can 
see a file note on the system dated 4 May 2023 which staes Customer refused repair and 
cancelled call. So I find it reasonable that the cancellation of the policy happened the same 
day.
The 4 May 2023 is 21 days from 14 April 2023, so Mr W cancelled the policy within 21 days. 
Therefore, the cancelation happened during the Changing Your Mind period set out in the 
policy terms. 
In summary, this isnt a matter of jurisdiction, it is a complaint about a refund of premium. Mr 
W purchased a policy, paid the premium in full and shortly after he cancelled the policy.  In 
the circumstances of this case I find Fortegra have acted unreasonably in not refunding the 
premium.
Putting things right
Fortegra should refund the full £168.87 premium to Mr W.
 
If it can show the cancellation instruction from Mr W occurred later than 4 May 2023 it should 
give a pro-rata refund.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold this complaint and require Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to refund the premium to Mr W.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman