DRN-1712025
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
 
What happened
Mrs M opened a store card account in a shop in July 1995. AXAs records show that PPI 
was added to her account in March 1998, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ms store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she didnt agree to PPI cover for the store card. She says she wasnt 
aware of the PPI, and wasn't told that it would be added to her account. 
 
AXA hasn't been able to provide a recording of the phone call in which the sale took 
place. I dont think thats unreasonable, given that this was more than 20 years ago. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks 
most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
 
I dont know what was said to Mrs M about the PPI during the phone call. But at the 
point when the PPI was added, shed already had the account without PPI for more 
than two years. So I think she'd have realised that she didn't have to take out PPI in 
order to have the account. On balance, I think it's more likely than not that there 
would have been a discussion about PPI and Mrs M would have been asked if she wanted to take it out. And I think its most likely that the PPI was set up because Mrs 
M decided to take out the cover  although I can understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 
Ive also borne in mind that once the PPI was added to her account, monthly 
premiums would have started to show on Mrs Ms store card statements. If she 
hadn't wanted the cover, or wasn't aware that shed taken it out, I think its likely 
shed have queried this at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
 
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs M. So it didn't have to check that it was right 
for her. It was for Mrs M to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other 
means shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off 
sick, or if she lost her job. But AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs M clear 
enough information to enable her to decide whether the policy was right for her.
 
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs M was eligible 
to take out the policy. And as she was paying for the policy monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she 
decided she no longer wanted the cover.
 
Mrs Ms told us shed have been entitled to sick pay from her employer at the time. 
But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, 
or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been 
repaid - whichever was the earliest. So the PPI would potentially have paid out for 
longer than Mrs M's told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs M received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to cover other day-to-day expenses.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful for Mrs 
M, particularly as shes told us that aside from payments from her employer, she 
didn't have any other means she could have used to make her monthly store card 
repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job. Based on what shes told us 
about her circumstances at the time, Mrs M doesn't appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for example, existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So Im not convinced that better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking it out. This means I dont 
think shes lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have done wrong.
 
Finally, I note that in response to the adjudicators view, Mrs M queried whether the 
reference to making a successful claim on the policy implied that a claim could have been 
unsuccessful. As with any type of insurance, a claim would only have been successful if it 
met the terms and conditions of the policy.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman