DRN-2487375
The complaint
Mr O complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked and closed his account, then 
returned the funds in his account to the original sender.
To resolve his complaint, Mr O would like the £258.40 that was in his account to be 
refunded. And to receive compensation from Revolut.
What happened
On 3 July 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Os account, without explaining why. Revolut carried out 
an investigation, which was completed on 31 January 2020. On completion of the review, 
Revolut closed Mr Os account without giving advance notice, and returned the account 
balance of £258.40 back to the source it originally came from.
Mr O complained. He said he chased Revolut numerous times using the live chat feature but 
only received automated replies or vague responses. Revolut couldnt resolve his complaint, 
so Mr O came to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Os complaint and sought evidence from both parties, to 
understand what had happened. Having done so, she said Revolut was entitled to block and 
close Mr Os account, and that it acted fairly when it returned the funds in his account to 
source.
She also said Revolut wasnt obliged to provide an explanation for its decision and that she 
couldnt interfere with Revoluts decision not to operate a telephone presence and give 
automated responses in live chat.
But she did feel Revolut had taken longer than it should have to complete its investigation. 
She asked Revolut for its comments on the time taken and Revolut agreed to pay Mr O £50 
in compensation, which she felt was fair.
Mr O didnt agree. He said he wanted the money in his account to be returned to him, and 
for compensation for the delay and inconvenience hed experienced. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the account in question  which both Revolut and Mr O had to 
comply with  say Revolut can close an account immediately and without notice, under 
certain circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Revolut has provided me to explain why it closed Mr Os account. 
And Ive thought about how that sits against the terms of the account. Having done so, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to close Mr Os account in the manner it did.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr O, I would need to be satisfied that Revolut 
acted unfairly or took action it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Revolut acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
Os account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
govern the relationship between Revolut and Mr O.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Revolut acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. I can see there were a number of matters Revolut had to consider, so I accept it was 
necessary for the block to remain in place for a number of months. And I can see that 
Revolut closed Mr Os account on the day it completed its review, so there were no further 
delays once it had made its decision.
With that being said, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that Revolut couldnt have 
completed the review more quickly. And Revolut made an offer of £50 in recognition of any 
distress and inconvenience Mr O experienced during the time his account was blocked.
So Ive thought about whether Revolut has done enough to put things right for Mr O. Having 
done so, Im satisfied Revolut has done enough and I wont be asking it to pay Mr O any 
additional compensation. Ive reviewed the information Revolut has provided and Im 
satisfied it needed to spend the time it did, for the most part. And that any avoidable delays 
were relatively minor.
I accept Mr O was unhappy at receiving vague or automated responses, but Revolut wasnt 
obliged to provide any further information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell 
Revolut how to run its customer contact, in terms of the communication channels it chooses 
to use.
I know Mr O is frustrated that he wasnt given a proper explanation as to why his accounts 
were frozen. And that he feels very strongly about his complaint. But under the terms and 
conditions, Revolut doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything 
wrong by not giving Mr O this information when he complained.
Account balance
The final issue for me to address is the funds Revolut returned from Mr Os account. Mr O 
says the money was the proceeds of a Bitcoin transaction, and hes provided our 
investigator with screenshots of messages he says proves his entitlement to the funds.
Ive looked at the evidence Revolut sent our service to justify its decision to return the funds 
to sender, instead of to Mr O. And Ive looked at the evidence Mr O has provided to show the money should have gone to him. Having considered all of the evidence supplied by both 
parties, I dont think Revolut acted unfairly when it returned the funds to their original source.
I acknowledge what our investigator said about the sender seeking to repay Mr O after the 
funds were returned, so Im not satisfied Mr O cant obtain the funds himself. Regardless of 
that, based on what Revolut has shown our service, Im satisfied that it acted reasonably in 
declining to return the finds to Mr O.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
And that Revolut has done enough to put things right for Mr O by offering him £50 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman