DRN-3966114
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse money he says he lost to an investment 
scam.
Mr S had come into an inheritance and was looking to invest that money in various different 
places. He says he doesnt recall contacting a business, which Ill call IW, but received a 
call from them offering investment opportunities. IW was based in Singapore and Mr S said 
he looked at the regulators website and didnt see any warnings about IW. Between March 
and June 2021, Mr S invested over £90,000 through them. He says he realised hed been 
scammed when he kept getting asked for more and more money. 
In April 2021, Mr S contacted Lloyds as he wasnt sure if he was being scammed or not. 
That call disconnected after he had provided some details. M S says he didnt get a call 
back. However, IW did contact him and persuaded him to invest further. 
After realising hed been scammed, he complained to Lloyds. It didnt respond to his 
complaint initially, but when it did, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Our investigator 
thought differently; she was satisfied Lloyds ought to have intervened when a payment for 
over £10,000 left the account in March 2021. And had it intervened, she thought the scam 
would have unravelled. But she took note of the call in April 2021, and Mr Ss own 
misgivings. And so she felt Mr S was equally responsible for his losses from that point. She 
asked Lloyds to refund nearly £70,000. 
Mr S accepted the outcome. Initially Lloyds didnt agree, but when our investigator 
reemphasised her findings, although indicating the matter was being reviewed, Lloyds never 
got back to us. So the matter has now been referred to me for review and determination.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 January 2023, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. I said:
Under regulations and general banking terms and conditions, banks should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that liability for 
authorised payments rests with the payer  Mr S  even where they have been tricked into 
making those payments. Im satisfied Mr S authorised the transactions in question, even if 
he didnt intend to get scammed. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as is reasonable possible. If in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a 
prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by 
its customer as a result. 
But that duty doesnt extend to protecting customers against poor investment choices. 
Although Mr S has reported IW as being a scam, and Lloyds appear to have accepted that, I 
can find no independent evidence to support that. There is a warning about IW on the FCA 
website from April 2022 about it offering products to customers in the UK without it being 
authorised. And this is sometimes an indicator a business is operating a scam. But the 
warning doesnt shed any light on that. And IWs website is still up and running, which is also 
unusual for a scam business so long after a scam has been discovered. So its far from 
certain Mr S has in fact lost his money to a scam rather than a high-risk investment. 
But even if I accept it was, Im not currently persuaded Lloyds should have intervened in any 
of the payments. I say this because wed only expect a bank to intervene if a payment is 
unusual or uncharacteristic such that it appears suspicious. Having looked at the operation 
of Mr Ss account in the months leading up to the transactions in question, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds ought to have been alerted to possible financial harm. I have set out a table below of 
why I have come to this conclusion:
October 2020 £49,750 Debit NS&I
November 2020 £49,000 Debit NS&I
December 2020 £47,000 Credit National Savings
January 2021 £75,001 Cheque debit Another account 
provider
January 2021 £5,000 Debit To share dealing
January 2021 £12,450 Credit Investec
February 2021 £1,000 Credit Investec
March 2021 £20,282.99 Credit Unknown
March 2021 £3,762.94 (scam) Debit HIFX (a foreign 
exchange money 
remitter)
March 2021 £10,392 Credit Investec
March 2021 £10,824.50 (scam) Debit Foreign payment in 
USD
March 2021 £300 Credit Investec
March 2021 £500 Credit Investec 
March 2021 £11,700 Credit Investec 
March 2021 £900 Credit Investec
March 2021 £2,000 Credit Investec
April 2021 £21,000 Credit Investec 
April 2021 £28,219.40 (scam) Debit Foreign payment in 
USD
April 2021 £10,297.94 Credit unknownApril 2021 £10,367.94 (scam) Debit Foreign payment 
April 2021 £2,030 Credit National Savings
May 2021 £10,000 Credit unknown
May 2021 £12,293.50 (scam) Debit Foreign payment in 
USD
June 2021 £25,000 Credit deposit
June 2021 £24,927 (scam) Debit Foreign payment in 
USD
This table isnt an exhaustive list of the payments into and out of Mr Ss account before and 
during the period he said he was scammed  just the ones I think are of note. What can be 
seen is that both before and during this period, Mr S is making and receiving substantial 
sums in relation to savings and investments.  I accept these were facilitated as a result of 
receiving an inheritance. I also accept Mr S was looking to spread the protection he could 
receive from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. But given the operation of Mr 
Ss account over the relevant time, Im not persuaded any of the transactions in dispute 
ought to have looked unusual or suspicious to Lloyds, such that it should have paused any 
of the payments pending further enquiries. The payment amounts werent unusual for the 
account and they were spread across many months, even if they were foreign transactions 
and to a new payee.  
I have thought about the call Mr S tried to have with Lloyds in April 2021, and have read a 
transcript of it, where he raised concerns he might have been scammed but wasnt sure. 
This call disconnected whilst Mr S was waiting to be put through to the right department. 
This is unfortunate, but I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong here either. I cant see that it 
said it would call him back; rather, I can see he was provided with a direct number to call if 
anything went wrong but it doesnt appear Mr S made use of that. And from the transcript it 
wouldnt have been clear what payments Mr S was concerned about such that I think Lloyds 
ought to have been worried about any future payments. And despite having his own 
misgivings, Mr S continued to make the investments.   
As Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have intervened in the payments, Im not currently 
minded it find it has done anything wrong. 
Finally, I note from the information provided by Lloyds that it did attempt to recover funds but 
to no avail. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it ought to have done anymore. 
I appreciate and understand Mr S has lost a lot of money. Despite my natural sympathy for 
the situation in which he finds himself, Im not currently minded to find Lloyds did anything 
wrong and so I wont be asking it to make any reimbursement to Mr S. 
Lloyds hasnt responded to my provisional findings, so I assume it has nothing further to add. 
Mr S has responded.  He is disappointed I have reached a different outcome to that of the 
investigator and considers Lloyds should have paused the second payment that went to the 
scam. Mr S has provided a lot of information about IW.  He has also provided more 
information about the money going into and coming out of his account in support of the 
transactions in dispute being unusual and uncharacteristic for the account. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to thank Mr S for the effort he has gone to in providing further information 
for my consideration. Although I have only summarised above what has been provided, Id 
like to reassure both him and Lloyds that I have considered it carefully. Having done so, and 
fully understanding and appreciating Mr S will be extremely disappointed by this, I havent 
been persuaded to alter my provisional findings. 
Mr S has provided further information about IW, its offices, the people he was dealing with, 
and that businesses he thought he was buying shares in have been shown to be fake. 
Having considered all of this, Im satisfied Mr S has shown its more likely than not he has 
been scammed. 
However, I did accept this possibility within my provisional findings and went on to consider 
whether Lloyds ought to have intervened in the payments due to their nature. I didnt find the 
payments were so unusual or so uncharacteristic that they ought to have looked suspicious 
to Lloyds. 
Mr S has provided further explanation around the payments. As already acknowledged 
within my provisional findings, Mr S had received an inheritance. Understandably, he was 
looking to spread his investments to ensure he received protection from the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme. Mr S has also explained he as looking for better returns. 
And he explained that much of the money he inherited had been previously held with Lloyds 
and so it would have been aware that he was due to receive substantial credits into the 
account. 
I accept at some level Lloyds would have been aware that Mr S had received an inheritance 
and that might very well have come from another of its customers. Banks fraud detection 
monitoring systems use algorithms that look at analysis, behaviour monitoring and known 
patterns and strategies used by fraudsters and well as other data in order to detect possible 
fraud. Im not persuaded information such as that put forward by Mr S could or would be 
factored into that monitoring.  
But even if it was, Im still not persuaded that means Lloyds ought to have intervened in the 
payments in question. I accept Mr S was making foreign transactions. I also accept that he 
had indicated these payments were for an investment. But Mr S had already been making 
substantial investments (some at a much higher value) in the months leading up to the 
transactions in dispute, and to various different places. I accept those investments were UK 
based and the ones in dispute werent. But Im not persuaded someone choosing to invest 
overseas means they are necessarily at risk of financial harm from fraud or a scam. People 
living in the UK are able to invest overseas, and many do as a legitimate way of investing. 
Im also mindful that the transactions were spaced apart, happening over a four-month 
period. Whilst Mr S considers that highly unusual, given the pattern of Mr Ss payments 
leading up to those in question, Im not persuaded it was. Mr Ss other investments were for 
a higher total amount over a shorter period.  
Overall, having considered everything carefully, including Mr Ss further submissions, I dont 
find any persuasive evidence that Lloyds breached its duty to Mr S or that it shouldnt have 
executed without undue delay the payment requests he had made and authorised. 
I do accept that Mr S has fallen victim to a cruel and vicious scam, and that he lost a lot of 
money as a result of that. But as I dont find Lloyds did anything wrong, I wont be making an award against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman