DRN-3478964
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) will not refund him 
for a hotel booking he made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr O booked a hotel abroad so he could attend a music event. However, because of the 
global Covid-19 pandemic the event was cancelled. 
Mr O contacted the hotel to say he no longer needed the accommodation and would like a 
refund. However, because the hotel would not issue Mr O with a full refund (it would only 
offer a rebooking or a 10% refund) he contacted AESEL for help. 
AESEL declined to refund Mr O. It raised a chargeback  but that was unsuccessful and was 
defended by the hotel.
Mr O brought the matter to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he said that because the hotel was open and able to provide the service (and the 
booking terms did not allow for a full refund on customer cancellation):
there was no valid ground for a successful chargeback: and
the supplier had not breached its contract with Mr O, so AESEL is not fairly liable to 
refund him under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75)
Mr O disagreed with the outcome. In summary he says:
he wants an explanation as to why AESEL and the hotel should be allowed to insist 
on him paying for a holiday that was cancelled because of the pandemic 
he requested a refund rather than a rebooking because he wasnt guaranteed tickets 
for the music event the following year
AESEL reversed its initial refund to him at the last minute  depriving him of the right 
to go abroad and use the hotel facilities if he wanted to
Mr O has also explained the negative impact of the situation on his health.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made several submissions about the handling of his complaint by this service 
which he wants my decision to address. That isnt something I will be dealing with in my final 
decision which focuses on the actions of AESEL. I will also be focusing on the matters that I 
consider central to this complaint.
My understanding is that Mr O feels strongly that he has not been treated fairly by AESEL. 
And that he should not lose money over circumstances that were out of his control. He has 
also provided evidence from his doctor to show he made a sensible decision not to travel.
I can see why Mr O feels so strongly. And I am not questioning his decision not to travel -  it 
sounds like he did the right thing. I also note that he says the music event organisers 
refunded him without question. However, it is important that I emphasise why AESEL is 
involved here. It is not the supplier of travel services so any potential liability it has for the 
agreement between Mr O and the hotel is limited to the specific card protections which are 
available. In this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
So in order to decide what is fair and reasonable for AESEL to do as a third party to the 
agreement between Mr O and the hotel, I have to take into account what the chargeback 
rules say, and what the law says about Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which AESEL might have been able to recover funds for 
Mr O. However, AESEL is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. I have 
considered the scheme rules in order to decide if AESEL has treated Mr O fairly.
It appears that AESEL tried to raise a chargeback for Mr S based on a reason code that 
relates to goods or services being cancelled and a refund not being issued in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the supplier. However, the chargeback was unsuccessful as 
the hotel pointed to the fact that its terms and conditions state the booking is non-refundable. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the hotel and from doing so I am satisfied the 
booking is non-refundable bar a 10% rebate (which Mr O appears to have received from the 
hotel). So I can see why the chargeback did not succeed.
I have considered whether there were any other chargeback reasons that would likely have 
been more successful. But because the hotel was still offering the service and it was Mr O 
who chose to cancel there were limited options to take via chargeback. I dont think AESEL 
could reasonably have done more here in its attempts to get Mr O some money back via the 
chargeback route.
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr O to hold AESEL responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of goods or services 
purchased.
There are certain criteria that need to be met for Section 75 to apply, relating to the parties to 
the transaction, the way the payment was made and the price of the goods or services. I am 
satisfied these have been met so I have moved on to consider the substance of any potential 
Section 75 claim.
The supplier here for the purposes of Section 75 is the hotel which received payment for the 
service. I have considered the contract between Mr O and the hotel and whether there has 
been a breach of contract in the circumstances.Here it appears the supplier had not cancelled the contract as despite the music festival 
cancelling the hotel was still open and able to provide the service, so I turn to the relevant 
contractual provision in this situation. The hotels general terms and conditions that relate to 
customer cancellation state that Mr O will be liable for 90% of the cost of the booking . 
Furthermore, from the booking information I have seen it appears Mr O had not booked the 
type of flexible room that would enable him to cancel without incurring a cost. So in not 
providing a full refund (I am satisfied it refunded Mr O the 10% he was due) the supplier has 
not breached its contract with him. I also see no grounds for a claim relating to 
misrepresentation either.
Mr O has understandably pointed to the exceptional circumstances around the pandemic 
and has indicated that there should be more flexibility here. I understand this but in deciding 
if AESEL has acted fairly I am assessing the scope of its liability via Section 75 for actions of 
a third party. Because there is no apparent breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
hotel, with Section 75 in mind it is not fair and reasonable for me to say that it should be 
responsible for refunding Mr O.
Customer Service
Mr O has indicated that he was disadvantaged because as part of the chargeback process 
AESEL credited him with a temporary refund only to reverse it at a later stage when the 
chargeback failed (close to his original booking date). However, I can see he was sent a 
letter when the credit was added that makes it clear that it might be reversed. And while that 
reversal might have come at a later stage I dont think the way AESEL handled the dispute 
or the time it took for an outcome (considering the global pandemic and the fact it was 
pursuing a chargeback for him) was unreasonable.  It also sounds like Mr O had no intention 
of travelling abroad in the circumstances so I am not persuaded what AESEL has done has 
likely caused him a loss here in any event.
Conclusion
I can see the circumstances were out of Mr Os control and I can understand why he feels 
upset about losing out. I am sorry to hear about the impact on his health which he has 
described. While I have carefully considered what he has said it is important to reiterate that 
AESEL is not the supplier of the service here so the fairness of directing it to issue a refund 
has to be considered in light of the particular chargeback scheme rules and guidance and its 
potential liability under Section 75. Despite the overall unfairness of the situation resulting 
from the global pandemic  this in itself does not mean AESEL is at fault. 
Finally, Mr O has indicated that AESEL has made him offers to settle this matter. From the 
evidence supplied I am not persuaded that is the case, but for clarity this doesnt change the 
outcome of my decision in any event.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman