DRN-2760084
The complaint
Mr S complains that mortgage advice from TSB Bank plc wasnt suitable for him, because it 
didnt take into account other mortgage lending he had with TSB. He said TSB shouldve 
advised him to take a deal on his second lending ending at the same time as his first.
What happened
Mr S took a first mortgage with TSB in early 2016, on a fixed rate deal ending on 31 
December 2020. Later that year, he asked for further lending. TSB agreed, and for this new 
lending Mr S entered into a two-year tracker rate mortgage until 31 October 2018. 
Mr S said he wanted to complain about advice he was given about this second lending, 
particularly in September 2018, when TSB recommended a five-year fixed rate, ending in 
2023. Mr S said that tied him to TSB for the next five years. So when the deal on his first 
lending ended in 2020 he was unable to move all of his mortgage away from TSB. Because 
his second lending deal ran until 2023, he would have to pay a large early repayment charge 
to end the fixed rate deal on his second lending if he wanted to move all of his mortgage. 
Mr S said that in 2018 he shouldve been offered a two-year fixed rate, which would have 
aligned his two mortgage deal end dates. He said that would have been more appropriate. 
But he didnt think TSB had considered this. 
Mr S wanted TSB to waive the early repayment charge on his second lending. But he said 
that as a fallback, it would be acceptable for TSB to combine the two mortgages. He said 
TSB wouldnt agree to either.
Mr S showed us a letter that his new mortgage broker had written, which said that the broker 
didnt think that TSB had regard to Mr Ss existing borrowing when it advised Mr S in 2018. If 
TSB had offered a deal then which would align Mr Ss deal end dates, Mr S couldve 
combined this lending in 2020, so he would only pay one product fee. Mr Ss broker thought 
that Mr S would have to keep paying two fees in future. 
Mr Ss broker also thought that the documentation TSB provided was inconsistent. He noted 
that Mr S had been asked Does your customer have any concerns about the possibility of 
future interest rate changes and the impact this could have on the monthly mortgage 
payments? and hed said no. But then the Fact Find went on to explain that Mr S 'expects 
interest rates to rise in the near future' and needed protection from these.
The Fact Find also details that Mr S would not need to review his borrowing for five years, 
but said that when he does, he would need to so without having to pay early repayment 
charges. 
Mr Ss broker said that the justification for the new product contradicts itself and is not a 
clear or reasonable justification for the product recommended. 
TSB said that Mr Ss first lending was arranged by a broker. TSB arranged his second 
lending, and it went through Mr Ss needs and circumstances in November 2016, when he 
originally sought this second lending. He wanted a repayment mortgage to keep reducing 
the balance, he expected to start overpaying in two years around ten thousand pounds a 
year, but nothing was set in stone. He was unwilling then to pay the early repayment 
charges of £12,000 to combine his existing lending with the new lending he wanted, as he 
wanted to keep borrowing costs low.
TSB said it had recommended a two-year tracker rate mortgage until 31 October 2018. TSB 
said it had given Mr S information on his new lending, and produced a mortgage offer that 
made it clear the two dates of when his two separate lending products would end.
TSB said that Mr S couldve chosen a two-year product in September 2018, but he needed 
stability of payment and wanted protection from rate rises, so he took a five-year fixed rate 
mortgage product. TSB said that again, the dates of when Mr Ss mortgage products were 
going to finish were in his mortgage offer in September 2018. 
TSB said that its mortgage advisors had followed Mr Ss needs and circumstances for both 
applications. TSB said that it didnt think it had made a mistake. It felt that it had provided the 
correct recommendation based on Mr Ss needs.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that TSB had 
confirmed in 2018 that Mr S didnt want to end the deal on his first lending early, so he could 
combine his lending. Our investigator noted that the notes of the 2018 meeting showed Mr S 
believed interest rates were due to rise and wanted protection from this, with a minimum 
five-year term. He didnt think that saying no to concerns about changes to future interest 
rates was enough to say that TSB hadnt paid sufficient care and attention to Mr Ss needs. 
Our investigator noted that Mr S was now concerned about the costs of running, in effect, 
two separate mortgages, and would prefer them to be aligned. But our investigator said it 
looked as if Mr S had other concerns in 2018, when he wanted protection from potentially 
rising interest rates. He said that there was no evidence to say that Mr S was concerned in 
2018 about combining his two mortgages. So he didnt think TSB had to do anything else.
Mr S said that he didnt agree. He thought the consequences of having two misaligned 
mortgages werent made clear to him in 2018. Because Mr S didnt agree with our 
investigator, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint, and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Mr S is clear now that hes concerned about the costs of running two mortgages, with deals 
ending on different dates. He doesnt want to pay two lots of fees. Whilst I understand Mr Ss 
current concern on this, I dont think that its at all clear that he either was, or would have 
been, concerned about this in 2018. 
The notes that we have from the time suggest that Mr S was primarily concerned to ensure 
the longer-term stability of the payments he was making on the deal he was renewing then. 
Those notes suggest that Mr S made his choice on the basis that he expected interest rates to rise. If Mr S was expecting interest rates to rise, then the better choice in 2018 may have 
been to fix rates for a longer period on at least part of his existing borrowing. 
We know now that rates havent risen, and Mr S may therefore have been better off in 2018 
paying for a shorter fix, potentially with higher rates, and aligning his mortgages now. But I 
dont think TSB or Mr S couldve known this at the time. 
It also appears that Mr S has expressed a strong preference for not paying early repayment 
charges, as well as for being protected from interest changes for some time. Neither of those 
would be an unreasonable stance for him to take. And I dont think that a desire to be 
protected from rising mortgage costs, or from avoidable charges, would be incompatible with 
Mr Ss stated ability to cover those costs if it should be necessary to do so.
Whilst it was ultimately Mr Ss choice which rate to take, it was TSBs responsibility to ensure 
it gave advice that was suitable for him based on his needs at the time. And given Mr Ss 
desire for stability of payments, and protection from the rate rises he anticipated, I think its 
hard to see how a recommendation that Mr S fix for a shorter period wouldve taken his 
needs into account.
On the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Im able to say that Mr S was misadvised in 2018. 
Thats because that evidence seems to me to be equally compatible with Mr S simply having 
expressed different priorities at that time. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think TSB has done anything wrong. And that 
means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman