DRN-2755775
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Mrs V and Satsuma here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount Highest scheduled repayment figure term
1 16 December 
2017£1,000 £166 12 months
2 25 July 2018 £800 £133 (rounded) 12 months
 
Mrs V was refused an £800 loan in June 2018. Our current understanding is that both loans 
remain unpaid. 
In February 2021, one of our adjudicators thought that Satsuma did not need to do anything 
to put things right. He said: For the later loan, I think the lender shouldve taken steps to 
build a more detailed picture of your financial situation. But I havent seen anything in the 
information provided which suggests the lender wouldve known that you wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably make the repayments you needed to for this loan.
Mrs V disagreed and has said to us several times that she would send in additional 
documents to demonstrate poor credit and being in arrears with priority bills. The complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs V 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this applies to 
Mrs Vs situation as she took two loans which is not enough to build up a pattern. 
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mrs V could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mrs Vs complaint.
Loan 1 was when Mrs V was a new customer to Satsuma. £1,000 applied for was not 
insignificant, but it was proportionate for Satsuma to rely on the information Mrs V had given 
to it. Satsuma did carry out a credit check as well and using that information it increased the 
figures Mrs V had declared for expenditure and loan commitments. Still, it calculated, that 
Mrs V was likely able to afford the scheduled repayments for Loan 1. From what I have seen 
then I would not have expected Satsuma to do more. I do not uphold Mrs Vs complaint 
about loan 1. 
I asked Satsuma to give me some information about the customer contact with Mrs V and 
some details about the loan which was refused in June 2018. I have seen from some 
customer contact notes provided by Satsuma that she had some trouble repaying loan 1 in 
or around April 2018. This, followed by the June 2018 refusal, does lead me to think that 
additional and more extensive checks ought to have been carried out before approving 
loan 2. Satsumas own credit check did indicate that there were some issues. 
But overall, I am not able to assess whether the additional checks would have revealed that 
Satsuma was acting irresponsibly to lend. 
Mrs V has said that she was going to send more documents and evidence. So far we have 
received a copy of mortgage arrears which is the joint name of herself and her husband. And  
Mrs V has sent to us a series of unnamed screenshots to show the status of some accounts. 
Its not clear in whose names these accounts are held (whether they are hers, or hers alone, 
or are joint accounts as well) and there is little detail on these screenshots. We are not able 
to see what the situation was at the time (or the period leading up to) the loan approval dates. So, this information is of limited value. Without the detail I am not able to assess it 
fully.
We have asked for better documents and copies of bank statements and as recently as 
28 March 2021 Mrs V had said the bank were sending the statements to her. This was 
almost six weeks ago, and these have not been received and since that date Mrs V has 
been informed that any additional evidence for the ombudsman to see had to have arrived 
by 15 April 2021. Having still not received additional evidence then I think its fair on both 
parties that I do make the decision asked of me. 
Having looked at the information I have for loan 2, I do not have enough for me to decide 
that Satsuma acted irresponsibly when approving loan 2. I do not uphold Mrs Vs complaint 
for loan 2. I realise she will be disappointed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman