DRN-2846278
The complaint
Mr H complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFCL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information supplied by MFCL here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermhighest 
repayment
1 06/08/2020 21/08/2020 £300 15 days £336.00
2 25/08/2020 23/09/2020 £400 29 days £492.80
3 27/09/2020 23/10/2020 £400 27 days £486.40
4 24/10/2020 16/11/2020 £400 31 days £499.20
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that MFCL had done the checks 
it ought to have done, and had not lent irresponsibly. 
Mr H appeared to understand what our adjudicator was saying about loans 1 and 2. But in 
relation to loans 3 and 4 Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mr H has explained that 
in his view MFCL ought to have done more and, for example, if it had looked at his bank 
statements it would have seen the financial predicament he was in and not approved the 
loans. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MFCL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MFCL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MFCL was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I dont think I need to review loans 1 and 2 as Mr Hs response to our adjudicators view 
leads me to think that he understands the outcome for those. For the avoidance of doubt, 
I do consider that the checks MFCL carried out for loans 1 and 2 were proportionate and that 
the adjudicators outcome was correct. 
MFCL had details of Mr Hs income (£2,188 a month) as declared by him when he applied 
for loans 3 and 4 and it had verified that income. MFCL has sent details of the expenditure 
figures Mr H had given to it which for loan 3 had been £904 each month and for loan 4 had 
been £564 each month. MFCL has explained that the relatively low housing and utility bill 
costs seemed appropriate as Mr H had informed MFCL that he was living at home with his 
parents and it had validated that through the electoral roll information it had obtained in the 
credit searches. Mr H had said he had no dependents.  
By loan 3, MFCL would have seen that Mr H had repaid loans 1 and 2 satisfactorily. We 
would have expected MFCL to go further than relying on Mr Hs declared income and 
expenditure for a third loan because it was the third loan in six weeks. We would expect it to 
have found out what other credit commitments, particularly other high cost and short term 
high cost loans Mr H may have had. And it seems that MFCL did do more. It carried out a 
credit check  and I have reviewed what that set of credit check results revealed. There was 
relatively little for MFCL to be concerned about. He had taken one loan on 27 July 2020 
which was to be repaid at a rate of around £292 a month according to the record MFCL had. 
And he had a credit card with a  £400 credit limit, the outstanding balance for which was 
£339. I see that one of the declared expenditure figures Mr H had given MFCL when he applied for 
loan 3 was other £300 as well as credit £50 and so its highly likely that MFCL would have 
compared the credit search results and Mr Hs declared expenditure figures and decided that 
they were not dissimilar. 
So, for Loan 3, using the earlier repayment history, the relatively modest amount of £400 
applied for and the credit search results it had, then I do not consider that MFCL was wrong 
to approve loan 3 for Mr H. 
Soon after repaying loan 3, Mr H applied for loan 4 which was for the same sum and over a 
similar term. MFCL carried out another credit check which I would have expected it to have 
done at that stage in the lending relationship. That credit search results showed that Mr H 
had one loan taken 12 September 2020 and the repayments were £263 a month. His credit 
card had a zero balance. So, I would not have expected MFCL to have been concerned 
about those results. 
Mr H had declared less expenditure figures for the loan 4 application but the difference 
between Mr Hs verified income of £2,188 plus his own expenditure figures of around £564, 
left a large margin of £1,624 a month. As the repayment for loan 4 was scheduled to be just 
under £500 plus the unpaid loan on his credit search, which looked to be costing Mr H 
around £263 a month, then MFCL would not likely have been concerned. Loan 4 would have 
looked affordable. 
Mr H is very clear that he thinks MFCL ought to have asked for and looked at his bank 
statements and Mr H has supplied to us copies of various sets of statements. I consider it 
would have been disproportionate for MFCL to be expected to have asked for, or to have 
reviewed bank statements before approving loans 3 and 4, especially considering the credit 
search results it had obtained. 
I consider that MFCL carried out checks proportionate to the loans applied for, which 
showed that Mr H was in a position to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman