DRN-1592649
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked her account over a bank holiday weekend, 
spoiling her family holiday.
What happened
On the Friday before one of the May bank holidays in 2019, Santander blocked Miss Ms 
account, as a measure to prevent fraud. She found out the next morning, when she tried to 
make a card purchase and her card was declined. That afternoon she went to a branch of 
Santander and provided evidence of her identity and her salary. The branch faxed the 
information provided to the banks fraud department. But unfortunately the fraud department 
did not review this information and unblock the account until the following Wednesday. 
Meanwhile, Miss Ms family holiday was ruined, because she could not afford to do all of the 
things she had planned. In particular, it was her sons birthday and she couldnt buy him a 
cake.
She complained to Santander, but Santander said it had done nothing wrong. It said it had 
been entitled to block her account, and it had been unblocked within a reasonable time. As a 
gesture of good will, it paid her £100 to make up for the embarrassment of having her card 
declined. But it did not accept liability for spoiling her holiday. Miss M brought this complaint 
to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that the account terms and 
conditions allowed Santander to block an account, and that Santander had unblocked it 
within a reasonable timescale.
Miss M did not accept that opinion. She pointed out that she had been receiving the same 
salary for several years, so it was clear why there had suddenly needed to be an 
investigation. She argued that the bank should have contacted her on the day it blocked her 
account, since if it had done so, she could have provided her evidence a day earlier and her 
account would have been unblocked sooner. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander did not suddenly discover Miss Ms salary in 2019 and decide to investigate it. It 
acted on other information which had only just come to its attention. I cant disclose what that 
was, and neither can the bank, for legal reasons. But Santander has already told Miss M that 
she can make further enquiries with CIFAS, if she wants to.
The bank was entitled to initiate an investigation, which in this instance included asking her 
to provide evidence that her income came from a legitimate source. This is something that 
banks and other financial institutions sometimes have to do, to prevent fraud and money 
laundering. The Financial Ombudsman Service will generally not interfere with or second 
guess the steps that banks take in this regard, as long as they were taken in good faith. In 
this case, I am satisfied that the bank acted properly. (I have come to this conclusion after 
considering some evidence which was provided to us in confidence, and I therefore cannot 
disclose or describe it.)
I realise that not telling Miss M about the block at the time caused her considerable 
inconvenience. But sometimes there are reasons why that has to happen, and besides the 
fact that this is mentioned in the accounts terms and conditions, it is also sometimes a legal 
requirement. So I cannot say that this was an error by the bank. But even if Santander had 
told Miss B about the block immediately, that would have meant she would have gone to the 
branch on Friday instead of Saturday  but it would not necessarily mean that the block 
would have been lifted before the weekend. The fraud department doesnt work on 
Saturdays, which is why it did not receive her evidence until the following Tuesday. It then 
took a day to consider her evidence, and completed its review and lifted the block on 
Wednesday. So on that timescale, its likely that if Miss M had attended the branch on 
Friday, the block would still not have been lifted until Tuesday, after her holiday.
(I have noted that Miss M told us that the block was imposed on the Thursday, but the 
banks records clearly show that it was on the Friday. There were some payments which 
went through on Friday morning, before the block.)
I was sorry to read about how Miss Ms holiday was spoiled, but I dont think it would be fair 
of me to hold the bank responsible for that.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman