DRN-1900879
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) have 
not upheld a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I think there has been a breach of contract here and that Tesco have been unreasonable 
when not considering that. 
Mr P received a text from the supplier of his kitchen on 4 April 2019. That text said:
we can bring your total cost down from £26,387 to £24,995 for everything! (all top of 
range appliances/ all furniture inc bespoke larder/ glass splashbacks/ top of range floor tiling/ 
all lighting/ radiators/ complete installation).
Tesco have relied on the invoice that was generated by the supplier in which its explained 
that the installation costs are separate. But Im not persuaded Mr P had seen that before he 
agreed to the deal. I say that because the invoice explains it was generated over phone 
and I think its fair to say that was in the customers absence. The text message generated 
before the invoice was completed clearly explains that the complete installation is included 
in the price. I think its clear that when the text message was sent Mr P hadnt agreed terms 
with the supplier as the text is encouraging him to sign up for the deal by offering a time 
limited discount.
Tesco say that no installer would give a fixed price without assessing the work. But Im 
persuaded by the text message Mr P received that thats what the supplier did do on this 
occasion.
So, I would agree that there has been a breach of contract as the eventual price Mr P was 
asked to pay was in excess of £24,995. 
Putting things right
Tesco should therefore refund anything that Mr P has paid for the original kitchen in excess 
of the £24,995 that was agreed with the supplier.  
They should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mr P has been deprived of that money.
Mr P has detailed the total costs he has had to pay and provided invoices. Our investigator 
summarised those costs when she provided her additional view on this matter at the end of 
April 2020.
Having reviewed them I agree that, after additional extras are removed, Mr P has spent 
£35,258 on his kitchen and its installation. Whilst Mr P hasnt yet paid the full tiling bill its 
clear that some of that debt is still outstanding and it would be fair therefore to list the whole 
tiling bill under the costs incurred.
Tesco say they shouldnt be responsible for the cost of the tiling as the supplier agreed to 
remove and refit the correct tiles. Im not persuaded by this argument. Mr P has explained 
that the supplier only made this offer on the basis that he would subsequently agree that the 
installation costs were not included in the £24,995 quote. He says when he refused to agree 
to that the supplier refused to deliver the tiles. 
I think Mr Ps testimony has been consistent and reliable throughout this complaint and I 
dont think hed be likely to go to the trouble of securing a new supplier if there was an 
easier, no cost, option readily available. I therefore dont think its unreasonable for Mr P to 
have commissioned the fitting himself and I think its fair to include the cost of the tiling in the 
overall cost he incurred. 
Thats £10,263 more than he agreed with the supplier and Tesco should therefore refund 
that to him, adding interest.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to pay Mr P £10,263, that being the difference between what he agreed to pay for the 
kitchen and what he had to pay. They should add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman