DRN-1619623
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with her store 
card.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 2001. It was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. But, AXA has provided a 
copy of Mrs Bs store card application form. The form had a separate section for PPI and the 
option to take PPI. Mrs B signed separately to say she wanted PPI. As Mrs B was signing an 
important financial document, I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect her to take the 
time she needed to read over the form before signing it. The paperwork made it clear that 
PPI was optional. So I think its likely AXA made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got clear information so she could make and informed choice 
and decide if she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs B has told us she wouldve got sick pay from her employer. She can't recall how 
much sick pay she would've got. She said her family would've helped out with her 
repayments if she needed it. The PPI would have paid on top of Mrs Bs sick pay and 
possibly for longer than her work benefits wouldve covered her for. 
 The policy wouldve paid up to 15% of her balance until she was no longer sick or her 
balance was cleared. It would've also paid out if she was made unemployed. So, overall, I 
still think the PPI could have been useful to her.
I accept that Mrs B's family may have wanted to help out with her repayments, but help of 
this can't always be relied upon when the time comes, so I haven't placed any reliance on 
this.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she couldve benefited 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Mrs B has lost out because of anything that 
AXA did wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman