DRN-3361044
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank incorrectly sent 
him correspondence advising his credit card payments had been made late. 
What happened
Mr L has a credit card with Tesco Bank. On 7 April 2020 Tesco Bank sent Mr L two letters. 
One letter said Mr L had made two payments later than the required due date. The other 
letter was a Notice of Sum in Arrears (NOSIA) and gave more information about the 
payments it said Mr L had made late. 
Mr L contacted Tesco Bank to ask about the letters hed received as hed made payments in 
line with the information set out in his credit card statements. Mr L complained and Tesco 
Bank said the way its systems record payments had led to the letters being sent. Tesco 
Bank offered Mr L £50 but he declined. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Initially, 
Tesco Bank claimed that because Mr L was paying his credit card bill on the date his 
statement was issued it had caused a mistake. But Mr L forwarded more information and 
comments to the investigator who went on to query the information provided by Tesco Bank. 
Ultimately, Tesco Bank said it was unable to explain why it had sent Mr L letters saying his 
payment was made late and suggested it was an anomaly.
Tesco Bank agreed to pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset caused but he asked to 
appeal. Mr L explained he didnt feel the settlement offered fairly reflected what had 
happened or how hed been impacted. As Mr L asked to appeal his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
All parties agree that Mr Ls payments for February and March 2021 were not made late. I 
can see Mr L was quick to raise the issue with Tesco Bank and refer the matter to us. And I 
can understand Mr Ls frustration that, after all this time, Tesco Bank hasnt been able to fully 
explain what happened. I agree with Mr L that the service hes received shouldve been 
better and that his complaint should be upheld. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Ls complaint. There hasnt been a financial loss 
here and I think its fair to note that Tesco Bank confirmed Mr Ls payments werent behind. I 
can see from Tesco Banks call notes that it did explain payments had been made when 
Mr Ls complaint was discussed. But its clear Mr L was very concerned about what 
happened and sought assurances from Tesco Bank. 
I can see Mr L and his wife have both spent time trying to get answers from Tesco Bank. 
And it wasnt until recently that Tesco Bank said it wasnt able to explain whatd happened. 
Whilst unsatisfactory, it appears the issue came about as a result of an unspecified systems 
error. I think the fact that Tesco Bank has raised several possibilities since Mr L complained 
shows theres no clear answer explain why its systems issued the letters.  
Our investigator asked Tesco Bank to pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Ive read everything Mr L has sent us setting out the way he was affected by Tesco 
Banks letters and service. Ive taken the timescales involved into account. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr L but I think the £100 settlement Tesco Bank agreed to pay is a fair way to 
resolve his complaint and recognises the impact of the issues raised on him. 
As Im satisfied Tesco Bank has already agreed to pay a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award or take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading 
as Tesco Bank to pay Mr L £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman