DRN-2089832
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to respond to her requests to 
transfer funds out of her account and close it. 
What happened
Mrs D has told us she was incarcerated abroad in 2017. Mrs D says since this time, shes 
been trying to get Nationwide to transfer the £338 in her current account to her mother. 
Mrs D says she has been writing to Nationwide about her funds since 2017. 
Nationwide says it first became aware of the issue in June 2019 when it received a letter 
from Mrs D and another from her mother. Nationwide responded to Mrs Ds mother to say 
she wasnt authorised to operate the account. Nationwide referred the account to a specialist 
team in July 2019 and it contacted the prison where Mrs D is incarcerated to ask for some 
information about making a transfer. 
In December 2019 we contacted Nationwide about Mrs Ds complaint and it sent her a final 
response on 7 January 2020. But Nationwide wrote to the last registered address it had for 
Mrs D instead of the prison. Nationwide confirmed the Power of Attorney arrangement for 
Mrs Ds mother hadnt been made so it couldnt act on her instructions. Nationwide also 
explained it was waiting for the prison to respond to its information request. 
Mrs D referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
that the earliest Nationwide had been aware of the situation was in June 2019 when it 
received Mrs Ds letter. The investigator was able to obtain the necessary information and 
the transfer was completed on 14 July 2020. 
The investigator said Nationwide should have done more to contact the prison and obtain 
the information required to complete the transfer. The investigator upheld the complaint and 
asked Nationwide to pay Mrs D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay. They also asked Nationwide to pay 8% interest on the balance from 
1 September 2019 to 14 July 2020. In addition, the investigator asked Nationwide to close 
Mrs Ds other accounts and pay the balances to her mother. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators view but Mrs D asked to appeal. As a result, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has told us she first contacted Nationwide to request payment of the funds in her 
account back in 2017. But Nationwide says the first time it became aware of the issue was 
when it received letters in June 2019. I dont know why Nationwide didnt receive Mrs Ds 
letters, but Im satisfied the records show none were initially received. Ive looked at the 
available evidence, and the first time I can see any indication Nationwide became aware of 
Mrs Ds situation was in June 2019.
From June 2019 progress was slow but I think that partly reflects the fact Mrs D is 
incarcerated abroad and has told us her ability to call and write is limited. Nationwide 
explained that it wasnt able to deal with Mrs Ds mother as the Power of Attorney 
arrangements hadnt been put in place. But Nationwide did email the prison for further 
information on 9 July 2019 and chased a response on 23 August 2019. I agree with the 
investigator that it should have done more to chase a response from the prison after its 
emails werent responded to. 
The investigator was able to obtain the necessary information and the transfer went through 
on 14 July 2020. Im pleased Mrs D is now able to access the funds held in her account. I 
agree that it took too long and that the complaint should be upheld. 
Nationwide has agreed to pay 8% interest on the funds held in Mrs Ds account from 
1 September 2019 to 14 July 2020. Nationwide has also agreed to pay Mrs D £300 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay. I note Nationwide has agreed 
to transfer the compensation to Mrs Ds prison account. Nationwide has also agreed to close 
and transfer the funds held in Mrs Ds other accounts to her mother. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but, whilst I agree Nationwide did make mistakes and delayed 
the transfer of her funds, Im satisfied the £300 plus interest it has agreed to pay reflects the 
impact of its errors and is fair in all the circumstances. As Nationwide has agreed to a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable, Im not increasing the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to: 
- Pay Mrs D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions
- Pay 8% interest on the account balance from 1 September 2019 to 14 July 2020 
- Pay both of the above to Mrs Ds prison account
- Close the two remaining accounts (ending 554 and 504)
- Pay the proceeds of the two remaining accounts to Mrs Ds mother
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman