DRN-2538406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc (SAI) declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy. The claim was for damage caused by water entering their home 
during two storms in early 2020.
What happened
During two named storms in February 2020 water entered Mr and Mrs As home through the 
gable wall of the house. Internally, it damaged the wall plaster and decoration and a ceiling. 
Water was also seen to be flowing through a light fitting. A claim was made and SAI asked 
Mr and Mrs A to obtain a quote for repairs along with a cause of damage report.  SAI 
received the repair quote on 13 March 2020.
A few days later SAI rejected the claim. It said that the damage to the wall, through which 
the water entered the property, was wear and tear rather than storm damage. The insurance 
policy contains a general exclusion for damage that has been caused by wear and tear. As 
such, it said there was no cover for the claim.
Mr and Mrs A complained, but SAI didnt change its mind about the claim. However, it paid 
them £50 for not having made it clear during the original claim call that the claim hadnt been 
accepted, might not be, and that a decision would only be made once information had been 
sent in. 
Mr and Mrs A asked this service to consider their complaint. They highlighted that a storm 
was defined in the policy as violent weather that can cause damage to hard surfaces or 
break glass. They said their home had been well maintained and had been damaged due to 
such weather. It was confirmed the electrics had been checked and the external works had 
been completed, but internal redecoration was still to be done. The total cost theyd been 
quoted for all the works was £1,075.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. Ultimately, he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said it has not been proved 
beyond reasonable doubt that the damage was caused by anything other than the storms. 
They believe the driving rain caused erosion of the mortar, which then allowed the ingress of 
water. Mr and Mrs A asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 January 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
There is no question in this case that there were storms at the times of the water ingress. 
There are two areas of damage in this case - the external damage to the wall and the 
internal water damage. I will consider each area of damage in turn.
Based on the repairs Mr and Mrs A had done, the external damage consists of erosion of the 
mortar beds between brick courses and around the window. SAIs expert has said this 
wouldnt have happened in a one-off storm. Having looked at the photographs of the wall, it 
is clear the mortar beds in some areas of the wall had eroded significantly. Given the age of 
Mr and Mrs As home, it would have been built with cement mortar, which is not easily 
eroded. So I am minded to accept what SAIs expert has said; that the external damage to 
Mr and Mrs As home was not caused by a single incident of storm, but was caused by 
normal deterioration over time. As such it would be considered a maintenance issue and it 
doesnt fall under the cover provided by the policy.
However, as I have said, there is no question there were storms. It also doesnt seem to be 
in dispute that the water that entered Mr and Mrs As home was rain from the storms. The 
internal water damage was caused by the storm, irrespective of how it entered the property. 
So, it would appear they have a valid claim for the internal damage, including the check on 
the electrics.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions, I see no reason to alter my conclusions 
about Mr and Mrs As claim.
Putting things right
St Andrews Insurance Plc should settle the claim for the internal water damage, including 
the cost Mr and Mrs S incurred having their electrics checked. Mr and Mrs A will need to 
provide evidence of that cost. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to 
settle the complaint as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 
24 February 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman