DRN-2166567
The complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in 1999 when she phoned Halifax to activate her credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint because:
I think its likely Halifax made Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional and she chose 
to take it. Mrs L bought the PPI when she phoned Halifax to activate her credit card. 
On balance I think Halifax wouldve made Mrs L aware she had a choice about 
buying the cover. I think its unlikely that Halifax wouldve added the PPI to Mrs Ls 
account unless shed agreed to take it. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs L says she was 
entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work, and that she had some 
savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ls employer benefits, and 
wouldve meant she could use those benefits and her savings to cover other 
expenses. So I think the policy would have been helpful to Mrs L if she couldnt work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs L would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman