DRN-4298944
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited has not implemented a 
pension sharing order in respect of his former wifes pension plan.
What happened
Mr Rs former wife holds a pension plan with Aviva. When Mr R and Mrs R divorced, it was 
agreed under their divorce settlement that Mr R would receive a share of Mrs Rs Aviva 
pension plan.
On 28 January 2022 Aviva received the Extract Decree of Divorce from Mr R. The Decree of 
Divorce had been extracted on 14 January 2022.
On receiving the Extract Decree of Divorce, Aviva replied to Mr R to say that to implement 
the pension sharing order they also needed to have received the Extract Registered Minute 
of Agreement and Mr Rs instructions on his new pension provider that the pension share 
was to be paid to. 
Aviva also told Mr R that under Scottish pension sharing provisions these documents had to 
be provided within two months of the date of the Decree of Divorce. As the Decree of 
Divorce received by Aviva had been extracted on 14 January 2022, this meant that Aviva 
needed to have all documentation required to implement the pension sharing order by 14 
March 2022.
On 7 February 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr R to explain again that they had to receive all the 
documentation they needed to implement the pension sharing order within two months from 
14 January 2022. 
In their letter Aviva went on to say that to implement the pension sharing order they needed 
to be in receipt of the Registered Extract Minute of Agreement and the Schedule Annex, 
together with his completed pre-implementation form and confirmation from his chosen 
receiving scheme that they can accept the pension credit. 
On 11 February 2022 Aviva received a signed letter of authority from Mr Rs financial 
adviser, allowing Aviva to release information on the pension plan that the pension sharing 
order applied to. On 28 April 2002 Mr Rs financial adviser next wrote to Aviva to ask if the 
pension sharing order had been implemented.
Aviva replied to Mr Rs financial adviser by return to say that they had received the Extracted 
Decree of Divorce and drafts of the Minutes of Agreement from Mr R, but they hadnt 
received the extracted Registered Minute of Agreement or any instruction from Mr R on who 
his new pension provider would be.
On 29 April 2022 Mr R sent Aviva a copy of the Extract Minute of Agreement. 
Aviva explained in their reply to Mr R that because they had not received all the 
documentation needed for the pension sharing order to be implemented by the deadline of 
14 March 2022, then, under Avivas understanding of the provisions in the Welfare Reform 
and Pensions Act 1999 applying in Scotland, the pension sharing order made in the Minute 
of Agreement had lapsed. Aviva went on to explain that this meant that Mr R would now 
need to apply to the Sheriff Court for an extension order, so that they could then implement 
the pension sharing order.
In May 2022 Mr Rs lawyers sent Aviva a further copy of the Extract Minute of Agreement 
and a newly Extracted Decree of Divorce, which had been extracted on 12 May 2022.
In reply to Mr Rs lawyers Aviva explained their understanding was that a newly extracted 
Decree, such as the one sent to them by Mr Rs lawyers, is provided to replace a lost or 
damaged Decree. This meant that Aviva would not accept the newly extracted Decree as a 
solution to the Decree that had elapsed on 14 March 2022.
On 8 June 2022 Mr Rs lawyers wrote to Aviva to say that in their opinion the second Extract 
of 12 May 2022 had the same legal effect as the first Extract. Mr Rs lawyers also told Aviva 
that they could confirm this with the Sheriff Court.
Aviva therefore contacted the Sheriff Court as requested by Mr Rs lawyers to seek 
confirmation on this point from them. On 1 September 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr Rs lawyers to 
say that they had received a reply from the Sheriff Court. In their reply, the Sheriff Court had 
told Aviva that they were not able to answer Avivas question. 
Aviva went on to explain to Mr Rs lawyers that as they had received the above response 
from the Sheriff Court, then their view remained that Mr R still needed to apply to the Sheriff 
Court for an extension order. Only when an extension order had been granted would Aviva 
be able to implement the pension sharing order. 
On 4 May 2022 Mr Rs financial adviser wrote to Aviva to complain on his behalf. They 
complained that Aviva had not implemented the pension sharing order. 
On 31 May 2022 Aviva responded to Mr Rs complaint. Aviva said that theyd told Mr R the 
documentation that they needed to have received by 14 March 2022 for them to implement 
the pension sharing order. Aviva said that Mr R had not provided them with the 
documentation that they had told him they needed by this deadline. Aviva therefore didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. The Investigators 
view was that Aviva had not made any errors and therefore didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the Investigators view, so his complaint has been brought to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 28 January 2022 Mr R sent an email to Aviva. Within this email Mr R said: I believe that 
you were waiting for the decree of divorce certificate in order to start (sic) the complete the 
change the policy over to myself. I have attached a scanned copy of the document. 
Mr R also explained that his financial adviser was completing a review of his pension policies 
and would be contacting Aviva to request details of the pension to be transferred to him.On the same day Aviva replied to Mr R to say: Thank you for sending us the Decree of 
Divorce and for confirming your current address.
What we need
 Complete Extract registered Minute of Agreement and Schedule to the Minute of 
Agreement received together in full
 Confirmation of where you wish to move your awarded pension credit (this can be noted on 
the Schedule to the Minute of Agreement or please complete and return the Pre-
implementation form I have attached to this e-mail)
 Confirmation from your chosen receiving scheme that theyre in a position to receive your 
awarded credit.
In their reply to Mr R, Aviva went on to say: Please note: Under Scottish Law Aviva must 
have the Extract registered Qualifying Agreement, Schedule to the Minute of Agreement, 
Decree of Divorce and confirmation of where you are to transfer your awarded pension credit 
within two months of the date of the Decree of Divorce, if you need more time, youll need to 
apply to the Sheriff Court for an extension order.
I think that Aviva were telling Mr R what documents they needed so that they could 
implement the pension sharing order. I also think that Aviva were telling Mr R the deadline 
for when they needed to receive these documents and that if Aviva didnt receive the 
required documents within this deadline, then Mr R would need to apply to the Sheriff Court 
for an extension order.
Mr R has said that Aviva told him in early 2021 that they already had the documentation 
needed to implement the pension sharing order, except for the Decree of Divorce. Ive not 
seen any evidence to show whether Mr R was told this by Aviva in early 2021. 
However, when Mr R emailed Aviva on 29 January 2022, in response to Avivas email of 28 
January 2022 above, he said: 
When I spoke to your advisor at the time I was told that all that was needed was the divorce 
certificate to transfer the pension to me. Why does this need to be resubmitted? I note that 
you are looking for a pension scheme to transfer this to. As this point I don't have 1. My 
pension advisor is in the process of conducting a review of all my policies then we are 
looking to consolidate them to 1 scheme. This will include this policy. When you receive the 
request regarding this policy can you please submit him the details requested? If you require 
anything else please don't hesitate to contact me.
I think from Mr Rs comments in his email of 29 January 2022 it seems likely that he believed 
at that time that the only document he needed to give Aviva for the pension sharing order to 
be implemented was the Decree of Divorce. 
However, Aviva then replied to Mr Rs email of 29 January 2022 on 31 January 2022. In this 
reply Aviva said: Until we have received the below court documents informing us there is to 
be an order applied to Mrs (Rs) plan we are unable to transfer the pension credit that may 
be awarded to you or provide your financial adviser with any information that you are entitled 
to.
What we need
 Complete Extract registered Minute of Agreement and Schedule to the Minute of Agreement received together in full
 Once you have made a decision confirmation of where you wish to move your awarded 
pension credit
 Confirmation from your chosen receiving scheme that theyre in a position to receive your 
awarded credit.
Aviva then went on to say again that they needed to be in receipt of the above documents by 
14 March 2022.
I think from Avivas reply they are clearly setting out the documents that are needed for the 
pension sharing order to be implemented, and they had to receive these documents by 14 
March 2022. I also think that Aviva are explaining that they didnt just need the divorce 
certificate as Mr R had said.
Therefore, even if I could be persuaded that Aviva did tell Mr R in early 2021 that he only 
needed to provide Aviva with the Decree of Divorce, I think that Aviva clearly told Mr R on 31 
January 2022 that this is not the case. Aviva also wrote to Mr R again on 7 February 2022 to 
tell him what documents they still needed to implement the pension sharing order and that 
they needed the documents by 14 March 2022.
Mr R has also said that if hed known that Aviva still needed the outstanding documents then 
hed have sent them when he sent his Decree of Divorce. However, Aviva promptly replied 
to Mr R tell him that there were other documents outstanding, so I think its reasonable that 
he would then have known that further documentation was needed for the pension sharing 
order to be implemented.
I therefore think that Aviva had taken reasonable steps to tell Mr R of their requirements for 
the pension sharing order to be implemented and what the deadline was for the documents 
to be provided. 
Aviva have said that the Minute of Agreement extracted in 2020 was not sent to them until 
April 2022 and instructions on the receiving provider were not sent until July 2022, so in both 
cases after the deadline of 14 March 2022.
Mr R has said that instructions on his receiving pension provider were sent to Aviva before 
14 March 2022. However, Ive not seen any evidence to support this. Mr Rs financial 
advisers sent a letter of authority to Aviva, but this didnt tell Aviva where Mr Rs pension 
sharing credit was to be transferred to, instead it was an authority for information to be 
released.
Ive seen a copy of the pre-implementation order, which contained details of the pension 
scheme that Mr R had chosen to accept his awarded pension credit, and this wasnt signed 
by Mr R until 12 July 2022, and therefore wasnt received by Aviva until July 2022, as theyve 
said.
In May 2022 Mr Rs lawyers sent Aviva a further copy of the Extract Minute of Agreement 
and a newly Extracted Decree of Divorce. This further copy had been extracted on 12 May 
2022.
Aviva explained to Mr Rs lawyers that they would not accept the newly extracted Decree as 
a solution to the Decree that had elapsed on 14 March 2022. Aviva explained their reasons 
for this to Mr Rs lawyers.In response, Mr Rs lawyers wrote to Aviva to say that in their opinion the second Extract of 
Decree had the same legal effect as the first Extract. Mr Rs lawyers also told Aviva that they 
could confirm this with the Sheriff Court.
Aviva did as Mr Rs lawyers asked and contacted the Sheriff Court. When Aviva received a 
response from the Court, they were told that the Sheriff Court could not provide them with a 
legal opinion.
I therefore think that Aviva did as Mr Rs lawyers had requested but were then unable to 
obtain confirmation from the Sheriff Court that the second extract of Decree had the same 
legal impact as the first Extract. I therefore think that Aviva acted reasonably when following 
the request from Mr Rs lawyers.
Aviva has also been asked by Mr R to accept a disclaimer signed by both Mr R and Mrs R to 
allow Aviva to complete the transfer from Mrs Rs pension to Mr Rs pension plan. Aviva 
have said that if the transfer was made outside of the implementation of a pension sharing 
order, then the transaction would be an unauthorised pension payment, resulting in tax 
penalties. Aviva therefore declined to accept a disclaimer. I dont think that Aviva are being 
unreasonable in their response to this request from Mr R.
I therefore dont think that Aviva have acted unreasonably in their dealings in this matter. I 
think that they explained to Mr R what documents they needed so that they could implement 
the pension sharing order. They also confirmed the time deadline in place. 
When Mr R then questioned Aviva about further documents being needed, I think that Aviva 
replied promptly to reiterate what documents were needed and to tell Mr R again that they 
had to have these by 14 March 2022. Aviva then wrote to Mr R again to repeat what 
documents were needed and the deadline for sending these in. 
However, Mr R didnt send the requested documents to Aviva until after the deadline of 14 
March 2022 had passed. I therefore dont think that Aviva were responsible for this deadline 
being missed.
I am therefore not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman