DRN-4405231
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his credit card, withheld his 
annual fee, failed to credit his points and a free night stay hotel voucher.
What happened
Mr H had a premium reward club credit card account with Creation which included an annual 
fee. The card gave Mr H the ability to earn reward points which could be redeemed for hotel 
stays or experiences via a scheme Ill call A. And the opportunity to earn a free night stay at 
a hotel by spending a minimum of 10,000 points a year. 
On 30 September 2021 Creation sent a letter to Mr H informing him that theyd be closing his 
account on 2 December 2021. 
Creation also advised Mr H that they wouldnt be crediting him the points hed accrued 
during the last statement period, awarding him the free night stay voucher or refunding the 
annual fee. 
Mr H complained to Creation. He also raised concerns about Creation charging him a late 
payment fee of £12, and interest on his October statement when hed made his payment on 
time. 
Creation agreed they shouldnt have charged Mr H the late payment fee or the interest. And 
they accepted there was an error in their payment system at the time. 
However, they thought theyd acted fairly in closing the account, the free night stay voucher 
and not refunding the annual fee. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service. Hes raised a 
number of points, some of which have been addressed in another decision considered by 
our service. The additional points included the amount of time he spent on the phone 
resolving the late payment and interest charges, and Creations failure to award him the 
correct points for spending he carried out outside the UK. 
After the complaint was brought to our service Creation made an offer to Mr H  they offered 
to refund a pro-rata proportion of the annual fee, credit the outstanding points and the free 
night stay voucher.  
Mr H didnt agree and requested our investigator considered a free breakfast he wasnt able 
to receive and the inconvenience caused by phone calls hed made to Creation for various 
issues. Some of this inconvenience was considered and addressed in a previous decision 
issued by our service. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint. They thought Creation made a fair proposal to 
credit his points, the pro-rata annual fee and free night stay voucher. They didnt agree with 
Mr H that he should be awarded any additional points for his spending outside of the UK. 
But, they agreed with Mr H he had experienced poor service from Creation and was 
inconvenienced by this. And they awarded Mr H £50 compensation. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he said:
He wasted five and a half hours on the phone to Creation resolving issues
At the time the free night stay voucher should have been awarded, in March 2022, he 
had a higher status with A. And would have been awarded a free breakfast for him 
and a guest. Hes since stayed at a hotel and paid 72 euros for two breakfasts, which 
he thinks should be refunded. 
He should be credited the account fee from 27 September 2021, not 
2 December 2021.
He should be paid four points for the payments made outside of the UK, not two 
which hes currently been credited. 
I understand that Mr H has now received the points credited to his account, and the free 
night stay voucher  and hes satisfied in the amount of the points credited and the value of 
the hotel voucher. 
As Mr H didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Withholding of points, the free night stay voucher and annual fee 
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Hs points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give him a pro-rata refund of the annual fee. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have 
deprived Mr H of access to the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing his 
account. But, Im pleased to see that theyve now agreed to rectify this.
Mr H however remains unhappy with the amount of the pro-rata refund Creation have 
offered namely £29.84. Mr H believes he should be refunded the annual free from 
27 September 2021, not 2 December 2021, as thats when he believes the benefits for the 
card were removed and he stopped spending. 
Ive considered Mr Hs argument. But Im afraid I dont agree. I appreciate he stopped 
spending from 27 September 2021, but that was a decision he made. And it wasnt the case 
that Mr H couldnt use the card or accrue points for any spending. It follows I cant agree the 
pro-rata refund of the annual fee should be backdated to 27 September 2021.
Although Mr H has accepted the free night stay voucher, hes unhappy hes been unable to 
receive a free breakfast. Hes argued this cost him 72 euros when purchasing the breakfast 
on his free night stay. 
Creation have argued that they have no control over Mr Hs status with A. And if Mr H is 
unhappy with benefits he receives from his account with A, hell need to raise it with them. 
Im afraid I agree with Creation on this. Im satisfied Creation should have awarded Mr Hs 
free night stay voucher in March 2022  however Im pleased to see this has now happened. 
Whether Mr H would have benefited from a free breakfast through his status with A at the 
time isnt something I can hold Creation responsible for.  Points earnt when outside of the UK
Mr H has argued that he should be credited an additional 150 points from Creation for 
spending he carried out outside the UK. Specifically Mr H is referring to five transactions 
which took place in a British Overseas territory between 16 and 21 September 2021. 
Creation have explained that Mr H wasnt credited four points per pound spent for all of 
these transactions as the merchant country is set by the merchant, not by Creation. 
Ive seen evidence from Creation which shows two of the five transactions had the merchant 
country set as the UK, not the British Overseas territory, these transactions totalled £75.95. 
In doing so these two transactions earnt two points per pound spent instead of four points, 
and meant Mr H earnt 152 points less. I understand this is disappointing for Mr H but I cant 
say that Creations actions were unfair here, or conclude as Mr H argues theres an error 
with their process determining how many points should be awarded. 
Time spent speaking with Creation
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the inconvenience caused to him in contacting 
Creation about a failed £300 payment, the late payment fee and interest he was charged. Im 
unable to consider the inconvenience caused to him when contacting Creation about the 
failed £300 payment, as this was addressed in a previous decision issued by our service. 
But, Ive thought about whether Mr H was inconvenienced in speaking to Creation about the 
unfair late payment fee and interest added to his account. And I think he was. Creation dont 
have a copy of calls Mr H made regarding this issue, however they accept the fees were 
charged incorrectly. In the absence of any call records from Creation, Mr Hs testimony that 
he had to contact Creation on several occasions to resolve the charges is persuasive. And 
Im satisfied this is likely what happened. 
Putting things right
Our investigator awarded Mr H £50 for the inconvenience caused to him by repeatedly 
contacting Creation to resolve this issue. Im satisfied this is fair and in line with our 
approach for awards on distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Pay Mr H £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him
Pay Mr H £29.84 as a refund of the pro-rata portion of the annual fee
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman