DRN-3213760
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Everyday Loans Limited (Everyday Loans) lent her a loan she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Everyday Loans lent Mrs C £2000 in April 2019, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Everyday Loans did not make a fair lending decision. I agree 
with the investigators findings for these reasons:
oEveryday Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mrs C. It says it asked her about her income and expenditure as well as go through a 
credit search and also look through 2 months worth of bank statements. It used the 
information it gathered to assess the affordability of the loan for Mrs C.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 18 monthly instalments of around £175 and 
Everyday Loans says Mrs C asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at 
Everyday Loans calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out 
that Mrs C would have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But 
like the investigator, on balance I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision with what it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the bank statements that Everyday Loans 
collated and I can see that Mrs C had taken out 7 payday loans leading up to asking 
for this loan, information that it would also have seen. 
oEveryday Loans says it was helping Mrs C by lending her money to consolidate 
these loans. But I can see that Mrs C had enough disposable income according to 
Everyday Loans assessment to be able to afford to repay what she owed without this 
loan. And she would have been able to repay these loans a lot earlier than the 18-
month loan term that she was signing up to with it.
oOn seeing the information provided within the bank statements, I think it ought to 
have become clear to Everyday Loans that Mrs C was having problems managing 
her finances. She was unable, up to the point she asked for this loan, to repay the 
credit commitments that she had already taken out without having to borrow further. I 
can see looking at all the information gathered, that she had become reliant on short 
term lending. And for the reasons I have already given, I dont think providing her 
with another loan over a longer term was being borrower focused towards Mrs C. In 
these circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was 
not fair to lend to Mrs C.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Everyday Loans now needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
While I think Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to Mrs C, I think it will be fair for her to 
repay the capital of £2000 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, Everyday Loans 
should:
add up all the payments made by Mrs C, if it exceeds the capital amount of £2000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mrs C, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Everyday Loans should treat Mrs C fairly and look 
to arrange a payment plan that is affordable for her. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Everyday Loans must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman