The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc took too long to return a transfer that couldn't be 
paid to the beneficiary account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The beneficiary bank doesn't accept foreign transfers. When the payment was sent
back to HSBC it didnt contain a reference required to trace the account it was
transferred from. HSBC wasnt able to initially credit the returned funds to Mr Bs
account because it didnt have the necessary information.
I agree with Mr B that HSBC couldve acted quicker from 7 November 2019 to return
his funds. I haven't found that it caused unreasonable delays before that point.
Mr B says that because of HSBCs delays he had to take a loan which came at a
cost. But the loan information hes provided shows Mr B signed for it on 1 November
2019. Mr B had already taken out the loan at the point where HSBC was able to trace
the correct account to return his funds. I'm not persuaded it was HSBC's actions that
caused Mr B to take a loan.
HSBC paid Mr B £369.68 to cover the differences caused by foreign exchange rates
so he got back the same amount that was originally transferred.
Mr B says that HSBCs delay caused him to change his consumption habits as well
as increased stress and anxiety. HSBC paid Mr B £400 and apologised for the
service provided. Im satisfied that fairly reflects the impact of its errors on Mr B so
Im not going to tell it to increase the settlement. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with
Mr Bs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
DRN-1664331My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman