DRN-2147482
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr G payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The PPI 
started in 2004. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr G told us:
I did not need PPI and I don't remember ever asking for it. I believe that if I did sign 
for it then it would have been because it was suggested to me that the mortgage 
would have had a higher chance of being accepted if I did.
This did happen about 17 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if Mr G didnt remember all 
the detail of what happened. And, in fact, I can see that Mr G did sign for the PPI; and I think 
the documents do suggest that there was a discussion about it. 
If Lloyds did put pressure on Mr G to take the PPI, that would have been wrong.  However, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that 
this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do 
something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And it would be difficult, 
without knowing what was said and how it was said by Lloyds, to reach a fair assessment. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was sold wrongly in the way Mr G has 
suggested. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G, and this means I would judge its sales process 
by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Gs particular 
circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. Mr G has said that, after six months off sick, he would have received an 
employee insurance-based benefit of 66% of his pay. But, even so, I still think a 
recommendation of the PPI would have been a suitable one, because Mr G could still have 
seen it as something worth having  and it would then have been up to Mr G to decide if he 
should buy the PPI. In saying this Ive considered the following: 
Its likely Mr G was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr G received any employer 
sick pay, and the employer insurance benefit. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. It would have topped up that insurance 
benefit, which Mr G is likely to have needed anyway to continue to cover his other 
living costs. This all would have put Mr G in a more secure position for a longer time. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr G would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr G took the PPI. I say this for the same reason that I think a recommendation of the PPI 
would have been suitable. In Mr Gs circumstances, its unlikely even full information would 
have made the PPI seem less useful.
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr G because: 
 Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all the cost 
of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman