DRN-2320216
The complaint
Mr T complains that Society of Lloyds has unfairly declined his home insurance claim for
theft.
What happened
In January 2016, Mr T took out a high net worth home insurance policy through a broker
which was underwritten by Lloyds. The policy had a sum insured for watches and jewellery
of £32,000 that was separate from the overall contents sum insured of £100,000.
The policy renewed in January 2017 and, in June 2017, the policy was updated to increase
the watches and jewellery sum insured to £46,250 and an additional premium was paid. The
policy renewed again in January 2018. Mr T moved home in June 2018 transferring the
policy and increasing sum insured for buildings from £400,000 to £600,000.
In December 2018 Mr Ts house was targeted by thieves whilst he and his family were away
on holiday. The thieves made off with the safe containing approximately £58,000 of watches
and jewellery. Mr T made a claim on his policy. Lloyds reviewed the claim and asked Mr T to
provided photographs of the damage, an estimate for repairs and more details of the loss.
Mr T provided some of this information to Lloyds in early January 2019 at which point
Lloyds decided to appoint a loss adjuster to validate the claim given the high value of the
loss.
The loss adjuster visited Mr T about a week later. He reported to Lloyds afterwards that the
house had an alarm that Mr T and his wife usually set but on this occasion their sons hadnt
done so. Following further investigations Mr Ts broker told Lloyds that Mr and Mrs T had
now had the alarm code reset and were using it regularly. He said the reason they hadnt
done so before was because they had a dog whod regularly set the alarm off at their old
house. The dog was at kennels at the time of the break in.
Shortly after, Lloyds established that Mr and Mrs T had watches and jewellery worth
£76,825 so Lloyds thought the sum insured on the policy was inadequate. Lloyds checked
its underwriting criteria and established that had the correct value of the watches and
jewellery been declared it would have applied an alarm clause to the policy that required the
alarm to be set when the house was empty and a higher premium wouldve been charged.
Failure to comply with the alarm clause would mean the policy wouldnt respond to claims for
theft.
Lloyds thought that Mr T had made a careless misrepresentation of the true nature of the
risk so it decided to apply the remedies available under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2018 (CIDRA) to the claim. It said that under CIDRA it was
permitted to apply terms to the contract (and the claim) as if the correct value of the watches
and jewellery had been declared; that included adding the alarm clause.
Having done so, it said it was clear that Mr T had failed to activate the alarm so the claim
failed.
Mr T complained to Lloyds. He said that the only reason Lloyds was repudiating the claim
was because at the time the alarm had a fault and he was waiting for the alarm company to
repair it. Lloyds looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt change its mind. It said several
different accounts as to why the alarm hadnt been set had been given during the course of
the claim but it was reasonable to take the first as being the most truthful: that Mr Ts sons
hadnt set the alarm. It said underwriters therefore remained of the view that the
retrospectively applied alarm clause hadnt been complied with so the claim failed.
Unhappy with Lloyds response to his complaint, Mr T complained to this service. He said it
wasnt fair for Lloyds to have applied a retrospective term to his policy in order to defeat his
claim. He said hed suffered emotionally and financially and wanted the claim to be met. He
said he accepted that more care shouldve been taken when disclosing the true value of his
jewellery and watches. He said he only wanted the claim settled proportionately.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought
that whilst Lloyds hadnt unfairly applied the remedies available to it under CIDRA, it had
failed to take into account what Mr T wouldve done if hed known about an alarm clause on
his policy. He said he thought that if Mr T knew that failure to switch the alarm on would
affect any theft claim then he wouldve prioritised getting the alarm code reset and reminded
his children of the importance of activating it on leaving the house. He said that he thought
that if Mr T had known about the alarm clause he wouldve complied with it. So, he
recommended Lloyds accept the claim proportionately in line with the policy terms.
Lloyds disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred
for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 
2020. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although I appreciate that it will come as
a disappointment to Mr T I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr T and his family were the victims of a genuine and targeted theft.
But, as they have admitted themselves, Mr and Mrs T shouldve taken more care when
representing the true risk of the watches and jewellery they owned. Its important for an
insurer to know the value of such items at risk when considering what cover to offer, on what
terms and at what price.
During the course of the claim investigation, Lloyds discovered that the actual value of the
watches and jewellery owned by Mr T was in excess of £76,000. I understand this is not in
dispute either. Given the careless misrepresentation of the true nature of the risk, Lloyds
was entitled to apply the remedies available to it under CIDRA. That includes the
retrospective application of the terms on which the policy wouldve been offered if the correct
value had been disclosed. I dont think that was an unreasonable thing for Lloyds to do in
the circumstances.
Lloyds has provided us with commercially sensitive, and confidential, underwriting
information from which Im satisfied that if the actual value of all the watches and jewellery
Mr T had owned had been disclosed it wouldve applied different terms to the policy and
charged a higher premium. The most significant term (for the purposes of the claim) Lloyds
wouldve applied to the policy if itd known the true value of Mr Ts watches and jewellery is
the alarm clause.
The alarm clause makes it a condition of the insurance that an intruder alarm is installed and
is put into operation when no-one is at home. It is also a requirement that its kept in good
working order under an annual maintenance contract and that any fault the policyholder isaware of is immediately corrected. Failure to comply with the clause means that any loss
caused by theft wont be covered.
Mr T moved into his home about six months before the theft. From what hes said during the
course of the claim, an alarm had already been installed. It is not in dispute that at the time
of the theft, the alarm had not been activated. I understand the whole family had gone
abroad on holiday but had left in two separate parties  with Mr Ts three sons the last to
leave.
Its my role to decide whether Lloyds has treated Mr T fairly by declining his claim in its
entirety. Ive explained above that Lloyds hasnt unreasonably applied the remedies
available to it in CIDRA and Ive set out too what Mr Ts obligations under the policy wouldve
been had the alarm clause formed part of the policy terms as it should.
It now remains for me to consider what Mr T wouldve done had he known his policy
contained the alarm clause.
During a phone call between Lloyds and Mrs T on 28 January 2019, Mrs T is reported as
saying that there was an alarm on the property but none of the family had been able to use it
since they moved in because the developer hadnt given them the code. She also
volunteered that they had had other problems with the developer. But she said theyd now
had the alarm re-set and were using it regularly.
In the complaint letter their broker sent to Lloyds its stated that the alarm (at the time of the
theft) was faulty and that they were waiting for the alarm company to repair it.
Mr T is reported as stating to Lloyds that he and Mrs T would usually set the alarm but it
would appear their sons hadnt.
In an email between Mrs T and the broker which comments on Lloyds final response, Mrs T
states that she and Mr T did set their alarm but only at their old house when they went on
holiday. In the same email, Mrs T said the family werent setting the alarm at the new house
because the developer hadnt given them the code and they hadnt chased him for it
because they had a dog who they believed was a deterrent.
So, it seems to me that there was an alarm on the property that was capable of being
operative but in the six months hed lived there  and despite having £75,000 of valuable
watches and jewellery on the premises  Mr T hadnt taken the time to make sure it was
capable of being used.
Having considered the different reasons given for why the alarm hadnt been used, I think its
most likely to have been because the developer hadnt given Mr and Mrs T the code so they
were unable to set it. Mr and Mrs T didnt do anything about being unable to operate the
alarm until after the theft had happened when they had the alarm re-set (presumably by the
alarm contractor). Whatever the situation was  lack of code or alarm fault - it seems to me
that a working alarm wasnt a priority for Mr T and his family. I say that, because if it was,
then they had six months after moving in to contact the alarm contractor to make sure it
could be used (to have it repaired or reset the code). But by their own admittance, they didnt
chase the developer for the code, nor did they contact the alarm contractor.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be persuaded that Mr T wouldve acted
differently (by ensuring the alarm was operative) if thered been an alarm clause on his
policy. I dont think the evidence Ive seen allows me to reasonably reach such a conclusion.
I say that because before the theft Mr T had an alarm that was capable of working and he
had £75,000 of watches and jewellery  equating to around 43% of his overall contents
cover. Yet despite having such high value items in his home he had an alarm he didnt use.Im not persuaded by any of the accounts given that the existence of an alarm clause on the
policy wouldve caused him to have chased the developer for the code or contacted the
alarm contractor. Nor am I persuaded that, even had the alarm been working, that their sons
wouldve ensured it was engaged before leaving for their holiday. So, I think its likely, alarm
clause or not, thered have been no operative alarm at the house at the time of the theft.
Unfortunately, the absence of the alarm is material to the loss. If the alarm had been on its
reasonable to assume that the thieves wouldve fled the scene without obtaining the safe.
But as it wasnt, the policy doesnt cover Mr T for theft.
So, whilst I am very sorry for the situation Mr T now finds him in, taking all the circumstances
into account, I cant fairly say that Lloyds has unreasonably declined his theft claim. The
total value of Mr Ts watches and jewellery wasnt disclosed to Lloyds so the terms it offered
to him were based on incorrect information. Upon discovering that, Lloyds reasonably
applied the remedies available under CIDRA to retrospectively apply the terms the policy
shouldve been offered on. And having applied the alarm clause that shouldve been on the
policy all along, and Mr T having not engaged the alarm, Lloyds declined the claim.
Unfortunately for Mr T, nothing hes said has persuaded me that, had he known about the
alarm clause all along, he wouldve done anything differently in relation to making the alarm
operative. That being the case, I cant reasonably uphold his complaint.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further comment to make. 
Mr T replied and made the following comments: 
He disagreed that hed made a careless misrepresentation because it wasnt possible to 
mispresent something hed not been asked about;
At no point was he asked to provide a specific value of all his watches and jewellery;
Originally he had specified £32,000 of items on the old policy that was subsequently 
increased to £46,250 but he was never asked to give a value for any unspecified 
jewellery he and Mrs T owned;
It was only when two of the watches were stolen that they discovered they had 
significantly increased in value so wouldnt have known at the time they took the policy 
out that the watches were worth so much more and that they needed to tell Lloyds;
It was only when the loss adjuster came that they were asked about the total value of 
their jewellery. If theyd been asked for a breakdown of all their items before the theft or 
to re-value the items they owned then they wouldve done so;
They were never told that if the total value of their jewellery exceeded a certain figure 
that an alarm clause would come into effect so they never had accurate information to 
base their decision to continue with the policy on;
The majority of the jewellery they owned was under the threshold for specified items and 
most of this they had on them at the time of the theft;
He and Mrs T believed they were covered for specified items totalling £46,250 and that 
the unspecified jewellery they owned was covered by the contents section of their policy;
That he and Mrs T disagreed that if an alarm had been on the thieves wouldve fled the 
scene without obtaining the safe because they drove round the back of the house and 
parked out of sight. Whilst their neighbour wouldve come out if shed heard the alarm 
and then called the police by the time the police wouldve arrived the thieves wouldve 
fled. A house alarm is not a great deterrent for a burglar. The CCTV was much more of a 
deterrent;
An alarm is no deterrent for professional thieves. The police have told him that they have 
caught and imprisoned the gang that carried out the theft.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the comments made by Mr T in response to my provisional decision but, 
regrettably for him, they havent led me to change my mind about his complaint. 
This complaint is against Lloyds. Lloyds is the underwriter of the policy. It isnt responsible 
for the sale of the policy. So, the comments made by Mr T in response to my provisional 
decision about what he was or wasnt asked when the policy was sold, what items were 
specified (on his old policy) or not and what advice he says he was or wasnt given at the 
point of sale arent ones that I can take into account here. Insofar as Mr T remains unhappy 
about these matters they are more properly directed at the intermediary that sold him the 
policy. 
Jewellery and watches had a separate sum insured on the policy (and werent included 
within the general contents cover sum insured) so Lloyds needed to know the total value of 
all the watches and jewellery Mr T wanted to insure. Its the responsibility of the policyholder 
to disclose to the insurer the full nature of the risk they are asking it to take on. It is clear that 
that didnt happen here but I cant reasonably hold Lloyds in any way responsible (by 
making it pay the claim) for the fact it didnt know the full value of all the jewellery Mr T 
owned. 
There is no suggestion from Lloyds that the misrepresentation was deliberate. I know that 
Mr and Mrs T say they cant carelessly misrepresent the true value of some of their items 
when they didnt know that those values had increased but its their responsibility to ensure 
they knew what their jewellery was worth. That way the risk couldve been accurately 
presented to Lloyds and it couldve made an informed decision about what cover to offer, on 
what terms and at what price. 
Lloyds offered cover based on the information it received. And it states clearly in the policy 
terms that the information its been provided with has been relied upon in entering into the 
contract. The policy terms also state that the policyholder must tell Lloyds of any change 
that may result in the amendment of the amounts insured or the limits shown in the 
schedule. 
Regardless of the fact Mr and Mrs T were never told that an alarm clause would be added to 
their policy should the value of their watches and jewellery exceed a certain amount, it didnt 
absolve them of the responsibility to ensure the risk they were presenting to Lloyds was an 
accurate one. The application of an alarm clause (or not) shouldnt determine whether an 
accurate valuation of Mr and Mrs Ts watches and jewellery is disclosed. The duty remains 
to present an accurate picture of the risk; what an insurer then does with that information in 
terms of cover offered and price charged is its choice.
Whilst I note Mr Ts comments about alarms not being effective deterrents to burglars, they 
havent persuaded me to alter the findings I made on this point provisionally. Thieves are 
deterred when an alarm goes off. As Mr T says, if one had, his neighbour wouldve been 
alerted and, in all likeliness, have come out. I accept that if an alarm had gone off the thieves 
may still have fled before the police arrived but I also think that an alarm going off couldve 
deterred them from proceeding with the burglary for fear of being caught. So, whilst I take 
the point that a working alarm may not have meant the police wouldve shown up in time to 
arrest the perpetrators, a working alarm could likely have caused the thieves to flee the 
scene before they were able to take anything. And had an alarm been engaged  as it should if an accurate valuation had been given and 
an alarm clause placed on the policy  then even if the thieves werent deterred by it going 
off, Mr and Mrs Ts claim wouldnt have been declined for carelessly misrepresenting the full 
nature of the risk and the lack of an alarm clause. 
Mr and Mrs T were the victims of a dreadful crime. But, despite my natural sympathy for the 
position they have found themselves in, for the reasons I gave both provisionally and within 
this my final decision, I dont think  taking all the circumstances into account  that Lloyds 
has unreasonably declined their home insurance claim for theft.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman