DRN-3501222
The complaint
Mr G says American Express Services Europe Limited unfairly changed the terms of the 
companion voucher scheme that came as a benefit with his Amex card.
What happened
When Mr G took out an Amex card on 16 October 2020 it offered a companion voucher for a 
flight, at the same class as the paid ticket, if £20,000 was spent on the card in a 12-month 
period. On 1 June 2021 Amex gave notice that it was changing the terms of this benefit from 
1 September 2021 to £12,000 of spend for a companion voucher that could only be used in 
economy class. Reminders were included in the statements from June to August 2021. 
Mr Gs August 2021 statement showed he had spent £18,014,47 so when the threshold was 
reduced on 1 September 2021 he was automatically eligible for a companion voucher, to be 
used in economy class.
Mr G says to do this Amex has relied on the wording As this agreement is not for a fixed 
period, we are likely to need to make changes to interest rates, fees and other terms and the 
services we provide for reasons we cant predict when the agreement was made in the 
account terms. But this change was not necessary and something that could not be 
predicted by Amex. So Amex is in breach of contract.
He wants to be able to use the companion voucher for a club class seat, or for Amex to 
cover the cost if he has to purchase a second club class seat. An economy class voucher is 
of no use to him.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said Amex explained in is response to 
Mr Gs complaint that the change was in line with the terms Mr G had agreed to be bound by 
- and it had given more than the required notice. So she agreed with Amexs position.
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. He said, in summary, it was clear the terms of the 
agreement were to persuade cardholders to use their Amex card, over any other credit card, 
but this was in return for a specific benefit. There are two limits on Amexs right to change 
the terms  need and for reasons we cant predict  neither condition was met here. He 
disagrees that Amex gave fair and proper notice of the change as if it was to be 
retrospectively applied to his historical spend that negates the terms of the contract he 
originally agreed to. He argues the meaning of the notice was that the new conditions would 
apply to the next 12-month period. He says otherwise Amexs application of its right to 
change term must be an unfair contract term. 
In response our investigator issued a second assessment. She remained of the view Mr G 
had not been treated unfairly as the terms allowed Amex to vary the services offered. And 
she said that the terms of the account are a commercial decision made by the lender and not 
something we would interfere in, or comment on different interpretations thereof. She 
explained it would be for the Courts to rule if a term is unfair, or Mr G could report a contract 
term he believes to be unfair to the Competition and Markets Authority.
Unhappy with this outcome Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he said he 
understood this service could not dictate terms and conditions, but we must be able to hold a 
lender to its terms  and this change was not both needed and unpredictable. In addition he 
raised a further argument that the terms say were likely to need to make changes to interest 
rates, fees and other terms so he would suggest the use of the wording other terms limits 
the changes to those of the same kind. And the rules of companion voucher are clearly not 
the same kind as card features such as interest rates and fees.
As an agreement could not be reached Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I have carefully read and considered 
all the points he has made during this investigation, but in keeping with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service I will focus here on those that I find to be material to his 
complaint. 
I do understand Mr Gs frustration and disappointment when the terms of the companion 
voucher scheme changed. But that cannot influence my analysis, what I need to decide here 
is whether Amex acted in error, or treated Mr G unfairly and unreasonably. 
I dont find that it has. I think the terms of the card and the Avios scheme - both parties are 
familiar with the relevant sections and so I wont repeat them here - allow Amex to vary the 
companion voucher conditions as it has. 
I know Mr G strongly disagrees, but even if I accepted his interpretation of the relevant term I 
cant see that he has provided any evidence to support his view that the changes were not 
needed and for reasons that could not be predicted. Typically a lender changes the terms of 
its reward schemes for commercial reasons  and this could be impacted by a number of 
variables, such as cardholder spending patterns and the broader economic climate. So I 
would argue that they would most likely have been both needed and due to reasons that 
were not predictable. This is not something we would ask Amex for specific details of as it is 
not the role of the is service to review commercial decisions.
I find it served the required notice of variation. Mr G argues  that if even allowed  this 
change should not have been relevant to historical spend as that negates his original 
contract. I understand Mr Gs view, but Ive seen nothing in the terms and conditions that 
suggests Amex must implement any changes in that way.
Finally, I find Mr Gs last point that the right to change term means any changes are to be 
limited to the same kind of things as interest rates and fees to be without merit. The term he 
has taken the wording from reads were likely to need to make changes to interest rates, 
fees and other terms but it goes onto say and the services we provide.  So I am satisfied it 
entitles Amex to alter features such as the companion voucher scheme. 
I know this is not the conclusion Mr G wanted and it will not feel fair to him, but I havent 
found anything to persuade me that Amex were at fault here. I believe it acted fairly in 
accordance with its terms. 
I hope he will get some reassurance from the fact his complaint has been considered by a 
second independent and impartial third-party. This final decision marks the end of our 
complaint process, but as the investigator said if Mr G wishes to pursue his claim of unfair contract terms he may be able to do so through the Courts or by reporting it to the 
Competition and Markets Authority. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman