DRN-3188129
The complaint
Mr S complains about a pet insurance policy he held with Zenith Insurance plc. He says the 
policy was mis-sold because it didnt explain that the premiums would increase over time. 
And he thinks the premium increases were unfair.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr S took out lifetime pet insurance in 2017. The policy was sold on behalf of, and 
underwritten by, Zenith.
Initially the policy cost around £400 for the year. By 2020 it had risen to over £1,000 
per year. I understand Mr S cancelled the policy at the 2021 renewal.
Mr S complained about the premium increases and said he hadnt been told the 
premium would increase over time.
Zenith said the premium increases were correct and explained what had caused 
them. But it accepted it hadnt made it clear when Mr S took out the policy that this 
was likely to happen. It offered him £220 compensation.
Our investigator thought Zenith had shown the premium increases were fair. But 
because Mr S hadnt been told to expect them, she recommended Zenith increase its 
compensation offer to £400 to recognise the impact on Mr S.
Mr S seemed to accept this. But Zenith thought its offer was fair and asked for the 
case to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Premium increases
Each insurer is entitled to its own view on how much risk there is of a claim being made  
and how much to charge to cover that risk. I would usually expect an insurer to apply its 
general view on risk consistently across all consumers to treat them fairly.
Zenith has provided this service with information to show what caused the premium 
increases. Its commercially sensitive, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to share the 
details. But, in summary, Zenith considers certain factors when deciding what amount to 
charge.
Amongst other things, these factors include the age of the pet and previous claims made on 
the policy. The information provided shows how these factors changed over time and the 
resulting impact on the premium.
Im satisfied Zenith has shown the factors it applied to Mr S policy, and the way they 
changed over time, would likely have been the same for other policies in similar 
circumstances. Because of that, Im satisfied Zenith treated Mr S fairly when it increased his 
premium as it did so in line with its general view on risk.
Policy sale
When selling the policy, Zenith had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, to enable Mr S to make an informed decision about whether the policy was right 
for him.
This kind of lifetime policy is broadly intended to provide cover for any conditions the pet 
develops for the rest of its life, so long as the policy remains in place. They tend to increase 
in price as a pet ages and claims are made.
Zenith has accepted it should have provided this kind of information to Mr S when he bought 
the policy  but it didnt. So he wasnt made aware the premium was likely to increase 
significantly. As a result, Zenith didnt give Mr S enough information to make an informed 
decision.
Its not in dispute that Zenith has made a mistake. Ive considered what impact that mistake 
has had on Mr S to decide what a fair amount of compensation would be.
When a consumer takes out this type of policy, they reasonably expect to be able to keep it 
for the lifetime of their pet. Significant price increases can make it difficult to afford to 
maintain the policy. If the consumer cancels their lifetime policy and takes out a standard 
policy with another insurer, theyre likely to find any existing conditions wont be covered  or 
the cost of providing cover will be expensive. Mr S has cancelled the policy because the cost 
has more than doubled in a few years.
Overall, after three renewals, the premium has increased from £400 to £1,000. Mr S wasnt 
warned to expect it. I think its a significant increase and one that would likely have come as 
a shock. It means hes now, unexpectedly, faced with a choice between a much greater 
financial burden than he anticipated, or a much lower level of cover than he wanted for his 
pet. And thats likely to continue throughout the pets life. Mr S has described the upset and 
concern this has caused, and Im persuaded its considerable.
Zenith has pointed out that the premium increases would have been the same regardless of 
whether Mr S knew to expect them or not. I agree but I think that misses the point. Had Mr S 
known to expect them, he may have chosen an alternative policy that was more suitable for 
him  one which was cheaper or less likely to have significant increases. Or he may have 
chosen to continue with this one, aware and prepared for significant increases. In either case 
Im persuaded that would have avoided the upset and distress of unexpected and 
unaffordable increases part way through a lifetime policy that limits his alternative options.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied a total of £400 is reasonable and proportionate to the 
distress Zenith has caused Mr S by not providing clear information at the outset of the policy. 
If Zenith has already paid any of the compensation offered to Mr S, it can deduct this from 
£400 and pay the remainder.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Zenith Insurance plc to pay a total of £400 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman