DRN-3228265
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as E, complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined its 
Bounce Back Loan application. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by one of Es directors, Mr C.
What happened
E held a bank account with Santander. In October 2019, the account fell into an 
unauthorised overdraft and was passed to the banks collections department. Santander 
wrote to E several times and in April 2020, the bank defaulted the account.
Mr C said he called the bank in December 2019 to make it aware of a change of address. He 
said hed also tried to change it again by email in April and May 2020. Santander 
acknowledged Mr C had tried to change his address in mid-May, but due to an internal error, 
it wasnt processed until 1 June. The bank paid E £80 compensation for the inconvenience. 
E also applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with the bank in May. However in June, 
Santander closed Es account, writing off the overdrawn balance. The bank then declined 
Es application - as it didnt have an active business account - and therefore didnt meet the 
banks eligibility criteria. So from June to October, Mr C applied several times for a BBL 
using his personal account details, but these applications were also declined. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said he was only aware that the business account was 
overdrawn when hed tried to apply for a BBL in May. He also said hed tried to clear the 
outstanding balance on the account but had been told to wait - and now wasnt able to apply 
for a BBL as Es business account had been closed. He thought it was the banks fault for 
not changing his address as requested, so he made a complaint. When Mr C didnt receive a 
response from the bank, he asked this service to look into Es complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she hadnt seen any 
evidence that Mr C had updated Santander with the new address, but she was satisfied the 
bank had written to him and attempted to locate him to make him aware of the overdrawn 
balance. The investigator also thought Santander had given Mr C enough time to clear the 
charges before defaulting Es account. She also said it was reasonable for Santander to 
decline Es application as it didnt meet the banks eligibility criteria.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Account closure
Santanders terms and conditions say under the section Cancellation and closing your 
account that the bank may close an account if it has been inactive for some time, and that it 
will give the account holder two-months notice. Mr C told us he called Santander to change 
his address in December 2019, so he didnt receive any correspondence from the bank from 
this point onwards. Mr C said he then followed this up in April and May 2020 by email. 
However, Santander has told us it has no record of any requests being received prior to the 
one in May. Ive seen evidence of the banks call records from October 2019 onwards which 
show that no call was received from Mr Cs registered contact number. Ive also seen 
evidence of Es account history which doesnt show any correspondence was received from 
Mr C throughout that period. Mr C hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support his 
version of events, so based on everything Ive seen I dont think Santander received 
notification from Mr C to change the registered address for E before May 2020.
Ive seen copies of letters sent to Mr C in November 2019 explaining that Es account was 
overdrawn, and that further action would be taken if the balance wasnt cleared. These 
letters were sent to the registered address the bank held on file  before Mr C said he asked 
the bank to change Es address  and at least one of the letters was not returned to the bank 
with a gone away response which would be usual in these circumstances if the addressee 
wasnt present. Ive also seen evidence that Santander attempted to locate Mr C through a 
tracing company, but this was unsuccessful. And as it was Mr Cs responsibility to keep the 
bank updated with Es contact address, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably.
Santander said it closed Es account as it had an overdrawn balance which hadnt been 
cleared for nearly six months - despite the banks attempts to contact Mr C. Ive seen that 
the last transaction through Es account was in late October 2019. As the account had been 
inactive for a prolonged period of time, and Santander had written to Mr C with both requests 
to repay the outstanding amount and the notice Es account would be closed - in line with the 
terms and conditions. I think it was reasonable for the bank to close Es account. I also think 
as there was an overdrawn balance on the account which hadnt been cleared, it was fair for 
Santander to apply a default after more than six months had passed. So I wont be asking it 
to remove the default from Es credit file.
BBL application
Mr C has told us Santander admitted they didnt process his address change correctly, which 
meant he couldnt apply for a BBL. But I dont agree. The bank accepts there was a delay in 
processing the address change request at the end of May  which was then processed in 
early June. But this request was submitted to Santander after the account had been 
defaulted in April and the bank was already in the process of closing Es account by this 
point. Therefore Im not persuaded the delay impacted the banks application decision. 
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some discretion to 
decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing customers. And 
while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying for a loan had a 
business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So I think its reasonable that 
Santander declined Es application as it didnt have an active business account.
However, even if the bank hadnt closed Es business account around the time it applied for 
a BBL, it still wouldnt have been successful in its application. The Scheme said that for a 
business to be eligible to apply for a BBL, it needed to be carrying on its business on 1 
March 2020. But Ive looked on Companies House and I can see that E was showing as 
dormant at this time  and therefore not carrying out business. It also didnt have any 
transactions through its business account and online banking hadnt been used either. So 
regardless of the actions taken by Santander at that time, I dont think E met the eligibility requirements of the Scheme which would have been applied by all lenders offering BBLs.
I recognise that Mr C feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Santander has acted reasonably in closing Es 
account and declining the BBL applications, so, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman