DRN-3209748
The complaint
Mr L complained because he felt Insight Financial Associates Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to switch his existing pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2009 Mr L attended a presentation, following which he decided to buy a property in a 
resort overseas. Funds from his pension were to be used to buy the property.
In late 2009 Insight recommended that Mr L switch one of his existing personal pensions to a 
SIPP in order to pay the initial deposit for the property. Mr L switched the pension to the 
SIPP and used most of the amount transferred to pay the deposit. The remainder stayed in 
the SIPP account to pay the necessary fees and charges.
By the end of 2012 there was insufficient money in the SIPP to pay for the ongoing fees. 
Around this time a further payment for the property was also due. Insight recommended that 
Mr L to switch another of his personal pensions to the SIPP. Mr L duly did so and used most 
of the amount transferred to make the payment for the property. The remainder again stayed 
in the SIPP to pay the fees and charges.
Mr L met with Insight in September 2013 as he wanted to move further funds to the SIPP to 
complete the purchase of the property. Insight recommended that Mr L switch a further 
personal pension to the SIPP in order to complete the purchase of the property. Mr L duly 
did so and made the remaining payment.
In March 2019 Mr L complained to Insight about the advice hed received. In summary, he 
felt the advice had been unsuitable because the investment was high risk. Insight felt Mr L 
had made his complaint too late and was therefore out of our jurisdiction. One of my 
colleagues considered this issue and decided that:
we didnt have jurisdiction to decide Mr Ls complaint about advice he received in 2009 
and 2012 as he complained to us too late
we had jurisdiction to decide Mr Ls complaint about advice he received in 2013 as that 
had been referred to us within time.
One of our investigators subsequently reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, he felt Insights advice in 2013 was unsuitable as the underlying 
investment  ie the property  was high risk and not in line with Mr Ls attitude to risk. 
However, he didnt think Mr L had been disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice as he felt it 
most likely that he would have proceeded with the transfer in any event.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators conclusion. He felt Insight should have advised 
against the transfer given the issues already experienced with the development, and it 
should have given him an alternative strategy. He said that as he wasnt advised against the 
transfer in 2013 he didnt get the opportunity to review his position and the transfer in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My consideration of this matter has solely been in respect of what happened in respect of 
the third transfer in 2013. In deciding cases like this there are two things I consider  
whether the business treated the consumer fairly (eg by providing advice that was suitable) 
and, if not, whether the consumer was disadvantaged as a result.
The recommendation
In January 2013  prior to Insight giving Mr L the advice  the then regulator issued an alert 
in respect of financial businesses advising on pension transfers with a view to the consumer 
investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP. The alert said, in 
summary, that when advice is given on a product such as a SIPP which is to be used as a 
vehicle for investment in other products, consideration has to be given to the suitability of the 
overall proposition ie the SIPP and the proposed underlying investments. It further said that 
advice on a pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the 
customer is contemplating. So, in other words, the advisor couldnt separate out the advice 
on the SIPP from advice on the underlying investments.
I think thats important to this case because it looks to me like Insight focussed its 
recommendation on the transfer simply so that Mr L could use the SIPP as a vehicle to pay 
off the remainder of the property purchase. I say this because the recommendation report 
said the recommendation was to switch pensions to the SIPP simply to enable Mr L to 
complete the purchase of the property. It was noted in the report that the property purchase 
was high risk, but it specifically said that no advice was being given in respect of the 
investment. In my view, that was contrary to the alert issued earlier in the year. I think in 
order to have treated Mr L fairly Insight ought to have considered the suitability of his 
proposed investment as part of its overall advice.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was considered medium. I dont think it was unreasonable for Insight to 
have concluded that investing in the property was high risk. I say this because the 
investment was unregulated, there is a chance of the developer going bust, and the asset is 
illiquid (meaning its often difficult for an investor to get their money out). Insight did note this 
in the report  something I touch on in more detail below  but if it had given the underlying 
investment proper consideration I find it hard to believe that it would have advised Mr L to 
switch pensions. This is because the risk involved exceeded Mr Ls attitude to risk.
I therefore conclude that Insights advice for Mr L to switch his pension was unsuitable.
Was Mr L disadvantaged?
I take Mr Ls point that as he wasnt advised against the transfer in 2013 he didnt get the 
opportunity to review his position and the transfer in full. We will never know precisely what 
Mr L would have done had he received suitable advice. And I accept that he might have 
chosen differently had he been advised differently. However, I must decide this case based 
on what I think most likely would have happened given all the circumstances.
Reference was made in the 2013 recommendation report to Mr L effectively being committed 
to continuing with the purchase given the money hed already invested. Im not entirely 
persuaded by this. I say this because Im aware there was sometimes the option  albeit 
most likely at the developers discretion  for consumers to change their purchase to a less 
expensive property or to change the ownership structure on the property to fractional ownership. I dont know whether this would actually have been possible in Mr Ls case, but 
its something I think Insight should have made him aware of. The overall point I make 
though is that I dont think theres a persuasive argument that Mr L would have automatically 
proceeded on the basis that he couldnt avoid completing the purchase.
Nevertheless, I agree with our investigator its most likely that Mr L would have continued 
with the transfer and purchase completion even if Insight had advised (or recommended) 
him not to. I say this because the three recommendation reports highlighted to Mr L that the 
purchase was high risk (and gave reasons why). One report even recommended that Mr L 
not purchase the property as it was well above his attitude to risk. So a specific 
recommendation in 2013 not to transfer wouldnt have been significantly far removed from 
the warnings in the reports. And despite the warnings in the first two reports, Mr L chose to 
continue with the transfers and purchase. So even if Insight had specifically advised him in 
2013 not to transfer because of the risk involved in the purchase of the property, I think its 
most likely that he would have transferred anyway. In essence, I think what Mr L did in 2009 
and 2012 is a good indicator of what he most likely would have done in 2013.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that the advice Mr L received in 2013 was 
unsuitable. However, I dont think this led to him being disadvantaged as I think he would 
have continued with the transfer and purchase regardless.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman