DRN-2344607
The complaint
Mr T complains that the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP regarding the 
transfer of some pension benefits was inappropriate.  
What happened
Mr T held defined pension benefits (DB) within an occupational pension scheme (OPS). It 
appears that he had other pension savings, though they didnt form part of the analysis or 
advice that Portal provided. At the time the advice was provided Mr T was aged 59 years.
In the latter part of 2017 Portal gathered information from Mr T about his circumstances. 
Following those meetings Portal recommended to Mr T that he should transfer his DB 
pension savings from the OPS to a new self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr T 
accepted the recommendation and the benefits were transferred in December 2017.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Portal had provided had been suitable. He didnt think it was in Mr Ts best interests 
to transfer his DB pension savings. So he thought the complaint should be upheld and he 
asked Portal to pay Mr T some compensation.
Portal didnt agree with that assessment. It thought that the advice it had provided had 
allowed Mr T to meet his objective of taking a pension commencement lump sum to support 
his consultancy business. And it said that it provided Mr T with all the relevant information so 
he could understand the costs of the transaction and the risks that he would be taking. So, 
as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R requires a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr T were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
Portal needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Ts objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
It seems to me that Portal did much of what it needed to in terms of the information it 
gathered from Mr T, and the analysis it performed. But that isnt enough. It also needed to 
ensure that the recommendation it gave was in the best interests of Mr T. I dont have any 
concerns that he was given the relevant information on which he might base a decision. But 
I think the overwhelming factor in Mr T reaching that decision would have been the 
recommendation that Portal gave him. He was after all paying Portal to provide its 
professional opinion about whether it would be in his best interests to complete the transfer.
Much of the analysis that Portal is required to perform looks at whether Mr T would be able 
to replicate the guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS via a personal pension. Clearly in 
order to reach that conclusion a number of assumptions need to be made regarding matters 
such as investment performance, and future rates of inflation. So I accept what Portal has 
said about any advice it gave needing to take account of a far wider set of circumstances.
Generally the starting point for the financial analysis would be what is termed the critical 
yield. That is the rate at which the personal pension would need to grow in order to provide a 
consumer with sufficient pension savings at retirement to replicate the OPS benefits that 
were being given up. Portal has said that Mr T had no intention of taking an annuity at 
retirement  so a comparison with the form of the pension benefits he was giving up was not 
particularly relevant. Instead it looked at the investment growth rate that would be needed 
over the whole of the remainder of Mr Ts life so that his pension savings could provide 
income payments of a similar size to the annuity that the OPS would give him.
The calculations that Portal undertook indicated that the critical yield would be at least 15% - 
and higher if using the retirement age set by the OPS. Alternatively the growth rate 
calculation returned a much lower rate of 4%. But of course that rate would need to be 
achieved for the whole of Mr Ts retirement. Portal assessed Mr T as having a moderately 
cautious attitude to risk.
Based on the financial analysis alone, it is clear that the transfer to a personal pension would 
leave Mr T unable to replicate the benefits in the exact form that the OPS guaranteed to him. 
I think that in itself might have started some alarm bells to begin ringing  the value of the 
transfer, and any expected investment growth would be less than it would cost the OPS to 
provide the pension benefits Mr T was guaranteed. The regulator expected that Portal would 
need to positively show that any transfer would be in Mr Ts best interests before 
recommending that he proceed.
Portal has said that the OPS benefits didnt provide the timing or format of pension payment 
to fit Mr Ts circumstances. It says that his primary objective was to access a pension 
commencement lump sum (often known as tax free cash) as soon as possible to provide 
funds for his consultancy business. It says that Mr T didnt intend to retire until age 70  so 
he would take the rest of his pension benefits later than if he remained a member of the 
OPS.Taking a significant PCLS would potentially put pressure on Mr Ts available income later in 
his retirement. I havent seen anything for example that would suggest Mr Ts life expectancy 
was impaired through ill health, or that he had any expectation of significant additional 
income or capital becoming available later in life. So I think Portal needed to take great care 
to ensure that Mr T fully considered how he might use any pension savings across the whole 
of his retirement. Portal didnt gather any detailed information on what other income Mr T 
might have available to him. But I dont think it unreasonable to conclude that these pension 
savings would be needed to provide a reasonable proportion of Mr Ts retirement income.
The regulations, and therefore Portals responsibility, were in place to protect consumers 
from making decisions that might have significant and adverse implications in the later years 
of a consumers retirement. Pension savings were intended to provide for the whole of a 
consumers remaining life. It is generally unlikely that it would be in a consumers best 
interests to use those savings for the purpose Mr T intended here. Given he wanted the 
lump sum to develop a business that would provide income whilst he was still working, 
I think there are more suitable methods of raising that capital.
I appreciate that Portal says it discussed some other methods of raising capital with Mr T. 
And it says he found them to be less attractive. But I dont think that absolves Portal of its 
responsibility to make sure that its recommendation was in Mr Ts best interests. It might be 
that Mr T would have rejected Portals advice if it had suggested he raised the funds 
elsewhere (although he says that wouldnt have been the case). But ultimately I think he 
relied on what Portal told him and that is the reason he transferred his pension savings.
I have considered that, since the transfer was completed, Portal says Mr T has taken further 
withdrawals from his pension savings. Portal says that indicates that the flexibility that was 
provided by transferring the pension savings was in line with Mr Ts needs. But Mr T 
indicated no intention to take any further withdrawals from his pension savings until he 
ultimately retired at age 70. By taking those additional withdrawals he has likely placed an 
even greater strain on his income in the later stages of his life. I dont think Portal should 
draw any comfort from how Mr T has subsequently used his pension savings when 
considering the recommendation it made.
So I dont think the recommendation that Portal made was in Mr Ts best interests. I think he 
should instead have been advised to not transfer his pension benefits and seek alternative 
sources for the lump sum he required. I dont think it was sufficient for Portal to simply 
provide information to Mr T and expect him to take responsibility for making the transfer 
decision. So Portal needs to put things right for Mr T. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
When making the calculation it would be reasonable for Portal to take account of the PCLS 
paid to Mr T, and the subsequent withdrawals that have been made. If the redress 
calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Ts 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. But 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr T.  
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman