DRN-4031669
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service received by M B Capital Limited (MBC). He says 
his investment was sitting in cash and wasnt invested in the market due to the delay caused 
by MBC.
What happened
Mr B held a Stocks and Shares ISA from April 2018. In July 2019 Mr B was advised by a 
party separate to MBC to move to a different platform to reduce costs. His investments held 
within his ISA were sold and were held in cash. 
The individual who was advising Mr B provided regulated financial activities as part of MBC 
from December 2019. At this time, Mr Bs money was still sat in an account as cash and 
MBC began the process from 18 December 2019 to transfer this money to a Stocks and 
Shares ISA with it.
By February 2020, the ISA transfer was still not completed. Dissatisfied with the situation, Mr 
B withdrew the money held in the ISA.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service about his experience with all of the parties 
involved with his ISA since 2018. He was particularly unhappy about not being invested in 
the markets since July 2019, when his ISA investment had been converted to cash, and the 
fact that he didnt have sight of the money. He says hes had to chase different parties over 
this. He says other investments that he has held have grown and this is not the case with 
this ISA. He says parties have contributed to a delay in all of this and he is out of pocket 
because of it. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
On 18 December 2019 MBC contacted Mr B and asked him to fill out a new form. This was 
essentially a transfer form for the ISA to be transferred to MBC. On 23 December 2019 Mr B 
submitted the form to MBC.
On 29 December 2019 MBC asked for more information to go on the form. On 6 January 
2020 it did the same and asked for more information again. On 13 January 2020, Mr B 
received an email saying the forms had been sent for processing. On 27 January 2020 he 
received another email from MBC saying it needed a further signature from Mr B. This was 
duly done by Mr B and then scanned back. There was then an email exchange between    
Mr B and MBC regarding a platform provider and it looks like there was a misunderstanding 
as to who should contact it about holding a new account. Then MBC contacted Mr B to say 
the ISA had been set up, at which stage he then requested that it not do anything further as 
he was looking to withdraw his ISA instead.
After reading through the timeline of events here, I can see that there was a period of around 
five weeks where MBC and Mr B were in regular contact because the form wasnt completed 
properly. I dont think it would be fair of me to apportion the blame to either party for this. I 
also dont think MBC were responsible for any excessive delay here either. After the form 
was completed properly, on 29 January 2020, I can see that MBC aimed to set the ISA up in 
a reasonable amount of time, and then Mr B decided he didnt want to proceed.
So, with what I have just concluded in mind, I dont think on balance, that it would be fair to 
conclude that MBC should make a payment to Mr B for distress and inconvenience.
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B, but after 
considering all of the information provided by both sides here, I do not currently uphold his 
complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to my 
provisional decision. MBC said it agrees with the provisional decision. Mr B did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman