DRN-4241457
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly registered 
a default on his credit file. He would like it removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
From the information I have I can see Mr C spoke to AESEL about problems making 
payments to his account in October 2022. In this phone call Mr C was adamant he 
would make payments in November 2022, December 2022, and January 2023 by 
which time he was confident he would have,aid off the  full outstanding balance. 
However, it seems no payments were made during this time. This meant Mr C made 
no payments to his account from July 2022 to January 2023. We usually expect 
defaults to be registered  when there are between three to six months of missed 
payments. Given Mr C hadnt made any payments for several months I dont think it 
was unreasonable of AESEL to apply a default to his credit file.
Mr C says he was assured in the phone call I have referred to above that if he was 
unable to clear the balance within six years a default would be applied to his account.  
Having listened to the call  this is what he was told, although this was initially in the 
context of being in, and keeping to, a repayment plan which Mr C didnt do.
AESEL has made the point its  adviser  didnt say Mr C didnt need to make any 
payments for six years or that he had six years to make a payment. However, I do 
think the information AESEL gave Mr C in that phone call was confusing..
However, I must balance the information on the phone call with the letters ASESL 
sent which comprised  a default notice in October 2022, a final demand on 4 
November 2022 and a letter on 10 November 2022 advising Mr C would be 
contacted by the company dealing with the outstanding balance looking to discuss 
repayment options. All these letters made clear the implications of not making 
payments to the account including the registering of a default. I understand Mr L 
didnt get the letter of 10 November 2022 I dont know why that was if he got the 
other letters.  But it was made clear to Mr C several times in the phone call that he 
would get a letter from the company managing his outstanding balance so if he didnt 
get it he could have contacted AESEL about this, but I cant see that he did.
Whilst I appreciate the information on the phone call Mr L had with AESEL was 
confusing I think there was sufficient other information for him to know that not 
making payments to his account could lead to his account being defaulted.
Its important that credit files accurately reflect account history,  so as Mr C didnt 
make payments for several months I think the default was fair and I cant reasonably 
ask AESEL to remove it as Mr C would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman