DRN-3949193
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss F with a loan for £4,100.00 in August 2017. This loan had an 
APR of 81.1% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,885.88, including interest, fees and charges of £4,785.88, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £246.83. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Fs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss F with her loan. So he thought that Miss Fs complaint should 
be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Miss F. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Miss F 
such that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Miss F could afford to repay 
any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss F was already 
indebted  including being overdrawn by more than a months salary, which was confirmed 
by the bank statements obtained too. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Miss F right to the margin of her disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data and minimum payments to her revolving credit 
commitments to calculate Miss Fs expenditure when arriving at its monthly disposable 
income figure.
Ive also considered that the recorded purpose of this loan appears to have been debt 
consolidation. However, the amount advanced wasnt enough to clear Miss Fs debts. In 
these circumstances, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve 
Miss Fs outgoings going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss F has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Fs difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Fs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Fs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Fs circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Miss F with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss F ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss F lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss F
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss F by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss F made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt 
purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,100.00 
originally lent. If Miss F has already repaid more than £4,100.00 then Everyday 
Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Miss F;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss F to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Miss Fs credit file.
if an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Everyday Loans should get in contact with Miss F to arrange an affordable payment 
plan. Id also remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in the event it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it 
be the case that Miss F is experiencing financial difficulty.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman