DRN-1461155
 
The complaint
Mr M complains BUPA Insurance Limited has declined his claim under his private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was diagnosed with prostate cancer last year. Following consultations with specialists, 
he favoured proton beam therapy (PBT) over other forms of treatment and asked BUPA if it 
would cover this under his private medical insurance policy. BUPA declined to authorise 
Mr Ms claim, pointing to the policy terms and conditions which said experimental or 
unproven treatment  which it believed PBT to be  would not usually be covered. 
Mr M disagreed and referred the matter to us. He told us PBT wasnt experimental as it was 
being performed in other countries and had been for a number of years. Mr M also pointed 
out there were a couple of centres in the UK which offered this treatment. During the course 
of our investigation, Mr M told us he elected to undergo PBT abroad and borrowed money to 
pay for it. 
Our investigator didnt think it was wrong of BUPA to decline Mr Ms claim. He acknowledged 
Mr M had provided a lot of information to support his assertion that PBT wasnt new or 
experimental. And although some studies supported the use of PBT to treat prostate cancer, 
the guidelines produced by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) 
didnt recommend it for treating this type of cancer. So, the investigator didnt think BUPA 
was unreasonable in not covering funding for Mr Ms PBT treatment.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings, pointing out the NICE guidelines were 
outdated. He also felt the guidelines were just that  guidelines  and so shouldnt be 
interpreted on their own. Mr M also provided a further letter from his consultant who didnt 
accept PBT for prostate cancer was experimental or unproven. Our investigator forwarded 
this to BUPA for consideration but its position remained unchanged in that the original 
referral later made it clear there was lack of outcome data in the long term. Mr Ms case was 
reviewed by another investigator at our service who also thought it wasnt unreasonable for 
BUPA to consider PBT as experimental.
So, the matters been referred to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. That includes all the medical references 
Mr M, his consultant and BUPA have provided.
Having done so, I dont think was unfair for BUPA to decline funding for Mr Ms PBT. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to him  Id like to explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion in more detail.BUPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. But private medical insurance policies dont cover all 
treatments for all conditions. Certain things can be excluded, and in this case BUPA declined 
to fund Mr Ms preferred treatment on the basis that experimental treatment is excluded from 
cover. 
Mr Ms policy, which forms the contract between him and BUPA, excludes cover for 
experimental drugs and treatment. Specifically, it states:
We do not pay for treatment or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion, are 
experimental or unproved based on established medical practice in the United Kingdom, 
such as drugs outside the terms of their licence or procedures which have not been 
reviewed by NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence).
Exception: We may pay for this type of treatment of an acute condition. However, you will 
need our written agreement before the treatment is received and we need full clinical details 
from your consultant before we can give our decision.
Mr M disagrees PBT is experimental, given it has been in use for years in some countries, 
and he says has been widely documented to be safe and effective in treating prostate 
cancer. Hes also said the NICE guidelines are outdated.
The evidence Ive seen suggests there are advantages to having PBT rather than 
radiotherapy  the former potentially causes less harm to the surrounding, healthy tissue. 
But the evidence also indicates PBT isnt routinely available in the UK at the moment for the 
treatment of prostate cancer. And says further studies and evaluation is considered 
necessary to properly determine its effectiveness. Mr M has pointed out that BUPA funds 
this type of treatment for other cancers, but Mr M wasnt suffering from these. So whats 
important in this case is the type of cancer he had and the treatments accepted for this  as 
the policy terms indicate the decision on Mr M's case will be made on established medical 
practice in the United Kingdom.
I consider the referral letters from both of Mr Ms consultant also highlight this  one says 
theres lack of long-term data to show its effectiveness, and the other says its based on a 
trial for a different type of treatment and it is difficult to definitely demonstrate the 
advantages of proton therapy over standard radiotherapy. The subsequent comment from 
one of the consultants, which Mr M forwarded in response to the investigators view, states 
that PBT has only just become available in the UK.
So, having reviewed the available evidence, including the opinions of Mr Ms consultants, 
BUPAs medical director, and information from the NHS, I dont think its unreasonable for 
BUPA to classify PBT as experimental or unproven in the UK. I dont dispute PBT is being 
offered in some centres in the UK. But current clinical evidence shows there is a need for 
more evidence of PBTs efficacy in treating prostate cancer. 
I also think its decision not to apply the exception relating to this exclusion is reasonable  
given that Mr M went ahead with the treatment after BUPA told him it wouldnt cover, or 
contribute towards the cost of it. It is my understanding Mr M chose PBT to avoid certain 
possible complications of standard treatments. While I think this is perfectly understandable, 
the complications of PBT are not so well documented in the UK. And as Mr M didnt have 
written agreement from BUPA, the exception doesnt apply.
I appreciate and understand why Mr M wanted to opt for PBT. But my role is to decide 
whether or not BUPA has acted unfairly in declining Mr Ms claim. It isnt to assess which 
type of treatment was best or most preferable to him. The terms of the policy Mr M signed up to allow BUPA to determine whether or not treatment is experimental or unproved (based on 
established medical practice in the UK). I think its fairly assessed the evidence available in 
line with this and in doing so, I dont think it has acted unfairly in saying PBT is still in the 
experimental or unproven stage in the UK at this time. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
 
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman