DRN-3163417
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) and a Gold 
Added Value Account (GAVA) in 2002 and 2007 respectively by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The key facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive double checked the date of the GAVA sale as Mr L challenged this in his reply to 
our adjudicators view. The evidence Lloyds has provided of the opening of the account and 
the fees Mr L paid show clearly in my view that the sale was in 2007. Either way this doesnt 
affect my decision, but I hope its useful clarity for Mr L.
Both parties agree that Mr L had a fee free account with Lloyds for many years before he 
took out the SAVA. And Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds led Mr L to believe he couldnt 
continue with a fee free account either with Lloyds or another bank. So, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr L knew he had a choice whether to take out the SAVA and he chose to take 
it out.
When he later took out the GAVA, hed had experience of having both a fee free account 
and a fee-paying account, so again I think its more likely than not that he knew he had a 
choice whether to upgrade to the GAVA and he chose to do so.
Both parties agree that Lloyds recommended the SAVA and later the GAVA to Mr L, so 
Lloyds was required on both occasions to provide Mr L with enough information about the 
products to make an informed decision whether to buy them or not. And Lloyds was required 
to ensure the products were suitable for Mr L.
And I think it did. I say this because both parties agree there was a discussion about the 
products where Lloyds was trying to sell them to Mr L. And Mr L went on to use many of the 
benefits provided. So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds provided enough 
information and there wasnt anything he wasnt told about, such as exclusions, that would 
have put him off buying them.
After taking out the SAVA and the GAVA, both parties agree that Mr L used the key benefits 
extensively. So, in my view I could not say the products were unsuitable for him.
Mr L says that he didnt claim many times against the benefits, or at all on the travel 
insurance. But insurance cover is there for peace of mind and to be available if needed, and 
Mr L did rely on that cover. 
And even if Mr L didnt use all the benefits, that didnt make the products unsuitable. Mr L 
couldve cancelled the accounts at any time but didnt and used them for many years.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in these 
sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman