DRN-4230545
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under their 
home insurance and the fact that claim was declined.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs W and Mr W have home insurance underwritten by UKI to cover a property they use as 
one of their familys two homes. The policy covers buildings and contents, amongst other 
things.
They made a claim after discovering that water had entered the property through a first floor 
balcony. They said the damage had occurred due to a storm. And they wanted UKI to pay 
for repairs to the balcony and to rooms beneath it.
UKI said the local weather reports didnt indicate there had been a storm at the relevant 
time. But bearing in mind its coastal location, they sent a surveyor to inspect the property.
The surveyor thought the damage had been caused gradually, wasnt consistent with storm 
damage, and so wasnt covered. So, UKI declined the claim.
Mrs W and Mr W complained to UKI about that decision. They were also unhappy about 
confused communications from UKI and a failure to respond to emails sent mainly by Mr W.
UKI accepted that the service provided to Mrs W and Mr W had been poor, that 
communications had been unclear and that they could have advised Mrs W and Mr W about 
the claim outcome several days before they in fact did so. 
They paid Mrs W and Mr W £200 in compensation for their trouble and upset. But they 
maintained that the decision to decline the claim had been correct.
Mrs W and Mr W werent happy with that outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. 
He thought it was reasonable to decline he claim because the damage wasnt caused by a 
storm. And he thought the £200 paid in compensation was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with all home insurance policies, Mrs W and Mr Ws policy covers damage 
caused by certain defined insured events  often called insured perils. It doesnt cover wear 
and tear, or damage caused gradually or caused by lack of maintenance or caused by faulty 
workmanship or design.
The principle being that insurance policies will cover unfortunate, unforeseen or one-off 
events. They will usually not cover damage caused because things are built badly, not 
maintained or simply go past their useful life.
In this case, its for Mrs W and Mr W to show they suffered some damage or loss (which they 
have) and also that it was caused by an insured event. They suggested the damage was 
caused by a storm. The weather records for the area dont back up that theory. 
The claim was made on 26 March 2023. Weather records for the area show high winds for 
one day around two weeks before that, but they were accompanied by very little rain. 
Windspeeds and rainfall after that time were within usual norms.
It was reasonable nonetheless for UKI to ask a surveyor to attend the property to carry out 
an inspection, given that Mrs W and Mr Ws property is on the coast and may be subject to 
very localised weather conditions at times. This was done within a few days of the claim 
being made.
The surveyor  an expert in these matters  identified that water was pooling in one corner 
of the balcony, above where the damage had occurred inside the house. They said the 
roofing felt in that corner was compromised and breaking down as a result. Of course, its 
the felt that makes the balcony waterproof. 
In other words, on the day the inspection was carried out  three days after the claim was 
made  when there was no storm or adverse conditions, the water was pooled on the 
balcony. 
The surveyor said the drainage outlets on the balcony werent taking the water away as they 
were designed to do. Photographs taken on the day provide evidence that this was indeed 
the case  and that the roof felt was compromised.
The surveyor also inspected the damage inside the property. They said the damage was 
reasonably long-standing and had occurred over time. The walls were stained. Black mould 
had grown on the walls and ceiling where they were damp. The skirting boards had de-
bonded from the wall and sections of them were split. And the laminate flooring was heavily 
stained and de-laminating. 
Again, this is backed up by photographic evidence. And in the expert opinion of the surveyor, 
this showed a long-standing and gradual leaking of water into the property, entirely 
commensurate with the drainage problems, water pooling and damage to the felt on the 
balcony.
Mrs W and Mr W have provided a quote from a builder to repair the damage to the balcony. 
Its notable that the quote includes adding an extra drainage outlet and relocating the 
downpipe on the balcony, as well as replacing the felt. That seems to suggest that the felt 
had been compromised and that this was due to the inadequacy of the drainage outlets, as 
previously installed. Taking all of that evidence into account, Im satisfied that the damage at Mrs W and Mr Ws 
property was not due to a storm or other insured event. And that being the case, its neither 
unreasonable nor unfair for UKI to decline the claim.
There were some issues in the way the claim was handled. The decision wasnt 
communicated as quickly as it might have been. Some emails from Mr W appear to have 
been ignored and/or deleted in error. Emails from UKI were at times contradictory. And Mr W 
was told at one point hed given a false address, which was entirely without justification.
However, UKI accepted these failings and paid Mrs W and Mr W £200 in compensation. 
Given that the surveyors inspection was carried out reasonably promptly and the claim 
decision  and reasons for it  were made known to Mrs W and Mr W within a few weeks of 
the claim being made, Im satisfied that amount of compensation was entirely fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman