DRN-2301854
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew the option to pre-book an exchange 
rate for a foreign currency exchange with the result he had to use an external broker which 
cost him an additional fee. Hed like compensation for the extra costs and an apology for the 
inconvenience as well as for the poor service he received when he went into the branch to 
query this.
What happened
Mr M opened a new foreign currency account with Barclays in March 2018.  Mr M had had 
one previously but had closed this some time before.
In December 2019 Mr M wanted to transfer funds from his foreign currency account to his 
sterling account. He said that previously hed been able to call the bank and agree a rate in 
advance, which was important for him because the currency rates change so quickly.
However, Mr M says he wasnt able to do this as the option to call and pre-book a rate had 
been removed. As a result, he had to use a broker who charged him a fee of approximately 
1-2%. He feels Barclays should now refund this.
Mr Ms unhappy that Barclays changed its processes to remove this option and feels it could 
have done more to let its customers know. He says the new system made it difficult to know 
what the rate was which is why he needed to use a broker. Hes also unhappy at the way his 
complaint was dealt with. He says when he went into his local branch to make enquiries 
about pre-booking the rate, the staff werent able to help and didnt seem to know about this 
option. Further he had to write several times to Barclays, and wait almost five months, before 
he got an adequate reply. He feels this was poor customer service.
Barclays said the option to call and pre-book a rate was discontinued in April 2018. 
However, Mr M would still have been able to make the currency transfer either in branch or 
via the telephone or internet banking so it didnt agree thered been any detriment.
Barclays said all foreign currency transfers now used the reference rate, which was in 
essence the midpoint between the buying and selling rates for that day. Further information 
on this was available on Barclays website and the relevant rates were also available online. 
It said the process for making foreign exchange rates hadnt changed just the mechanism for 
obtaining the exchange rate. In the circumstances it couldnt agree it had made a mistake so 
it wasnt willing to refund any additional costs incurred by Mr M. 
With regard to the complaint it said it had received Mr Ms first letter on 23 September 2019 
and acknowledged it on 27 September. And although it hadnt sent the final response until 8 
January 2020 it had continued to update him in the meantime.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said although Barclays had previously 
offered the option to call and book a rate, this had changed by the time Mr M wanted to 
make his transfer in December 2019 and the rate was now based on the published rates for 
that day. As before, Barclays then applied a margin to that rate, the amount of which 
depended on the amount being transferred. 
Our investigator accepted that Mr M didnt find the new system helpful but she couldnt agree 
Barclays had done anything wrong. The way in which Barclays provided its services was a 
commercial decision that we couldnt interfere with but she could see that Barclays was 
entitled to make changes in line with the terms and conditions of the account. For that 
reason, she wouldnt be asking Barclays to compensate Mr M for the additional costs hed 
incurred as a result of what happened.
Mr M disagreed and said
Barclays had changed the process without giving appropriate notice of this to its 
customers;
The new system wasnt suitable for exchanging large amounts of currency when the 
variation in the exchange rates could have a real impact on customers. He felt 
customers should be able to agree a rate they were happy with before going ahead;
He hadnt been able to talk to anyone to confirm the rate before deciding whether or 
not to go ahead and felt this was unacceptable; 
The reference rate was several points lower than the market rate and this would have 
resulted in a considerable loss on the exchange for him;
He was unhappy with Barclays response to his complaint as what he was looking for 
was the contact details to enable him to book a rate
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I realise Mr M may be disappointed by my decision but I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more as Ill now explain.
Mr Ms explained very clearly why he valued the option of being able to call and book an 
exchange rate when transferring money in his foreign currency account to his sterling one I 
can see it gave him a certainty that he found reassuring and understand why he was so 
disappointed in December 2019 to find this option was no longer available.
However, Barclays, like all banks, is entitled to keep its services under review and to amend 
them as appropriate. Thats part of its commercial competitiveness and its also permitted 
under the terms and conditions for the account, which Mr M signed up to when he opened 
his new foreign currency account in March 2018. Its also the case that Barclays hadnt altered the mechanism for making foreign currency 
transfers but only the way in which the rates were obtained. Rates, as before, were based on 
the market rates for the day. Barclays then used the reference rate which was in effect the 
mid-point between the buying and selling rate for that currency to calculate the rate 
available.  If the customer wasnt satisfied then they could decide not to go ahead and wait 
for the rate to improve. I appreciate that Mr M didnt find this as helpful as being able to call 
and book a rate but I cant agree Barclays has acted unreasonably in using a different 
method to calculate the exchange rate.
Ive also seen that information about the process, including the reference rate, was available 
on the website and in the account terms and conditions. I consider that was reasonable. It 
wasnt the same process as before but it was the process in place when Mr M opened his 
new account in March 2018 and the one that applied, therefore, at the time he went to make 
the transfer in 2019.
Mr M has said he was forced to use a broker to get the exchange rate certainty he required 
but that seems to me to have been a misunderstanding as to the process. Although Mr M 
couldnt call and book a rate he could have obtained a rate either using the telephone or 
internet banking service or by asking in branch. Once the rate was offered and agreed that 
would have been the rate applicable. I agree that the rate can change quickly and that the 
customer has to decide promptly whether to accept the rate being offered but the customer 
does have a choice, including to decide not to go ahead if its not suitable, so I dont consider 
its unfair. 
Ive seen Mr M would like Barclays to refund the additional costs he had to pay in using a 
broker but I can only do that if I consider its made a mistake. For the reasons given I dont 
consider Barclays has made a mistake so I cant reasonably ask it to compensate Mr M for 
deciding to use an alternative means of arranging the exchange.
With regard to the service Mr M received, in branch I note Mr M says when he went in to ask 
how to book a rate as before, he was met with a wall of astonishment and ignorance 
combined with several quite ridiculous suggestions. Unfortunately, theres no other 
information to confirm what was said that day but I think it probable that the problem may 
have been caused by some confusion as to exactly what Mr M was asking for. Mr M has 
said he went in to ask how he could make a call to book an exchange but this option was no 
longer available, and hadnt been for almost 18 months, so I dont find it surprising that the 
staff may have been unsure as to exactly what was required and that they werent able to 
help.  
Ive also looked at the way in which Barclays handed Mr Ms complaint.  Mr M complained 
on 17 September although Barclays says it didnt receive it until 23rd. A final response was 
sent on 8 January 2020. This is longer than the usual eight weeks allowed but Mr M has 
confirmed that, during this time, he received several responses but felt they were 
inadequate. On that basis Im satisfied that Barclays were still actively dealing with Mr Ms 
complaint and that it hadnt been overlooked. In the circumstances I dont consider that this 
would amount to poor service.
I realise Mr M may be disappointed by my decision but I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more as Ill now explain.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman