DRN-3878814
The complaint
Mr P complains that Executive Advisory Services Limited (EAS) gave him unsuitable advice 
to switch his personal pensions, causing him to lose a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) 
associated with one of them.
What happened
Mr P had two personal pensions that in 2009 were valued around £16,725 and £37,850. The 
second pension, valued at £37,850 had GARs attached to it. Mr P sought financial advice 
from EAS.
In May 2009 EAS reviewed Mr Ps circumstances and recorded, amongst other things, that 
he:
was 53 years old;
was married with 2 children;
intended to retire at 65;
had no other investments or pensions at that time;
had a cautious attitude to risk (ATR).
EAS recommended that Mr P switched both existing personal pensions to a new pension 
contract, giving a recommendation about how that combined fund should be invested. Mr P 
followed EASs recommendation and transferred his existing pensions to a single new 
personal pension with the same provider.
In 2020 Mr P complained to EAS after finding out from his pension provider that his current 
pension plan didnt have GARs as part of the terms and conditions.
EAS responded to Mr P to explain that it didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that when it 
gave him its recommendation, it pointed out that one of Mr Ps pensions had GARs attached. 
EAS also explained that it thought Mr P made his complaint too late for it to be considered.
The question of jurisdiction  whether our service has the authority to help with this matter  
was looked into, and an ombudsman decided this complaint was one that we could consider.
A second investigator then considered the merits of Mr Ps complaint. She was of the 
opinion that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that EAS had provided Mr P 
with enough information about the GAR to properly understand what he was giving up by 
transferring. She didnt think proper consideration had been given to the value of the 
guaranteed benefit that Mr P held on one of his pensions, and that it wasnt suitable to have 
recommended that it be given up in the way it was.
EAS didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the case to be considered by an 
ombudsman. I looked into what happened and issued a provisional decision to give both 
sides the opportunity to consider my view and respond if necessary. In my provisional 
decision I explained that I was upholding Mr Ps complaint for similar reasons to our 
investigator, but that I thought that EAS should put things right in a slightly different way.
Both parties have had time to respond to my provisional findings and present further 
evidence as necessary. I havent been asked to consider any further evidence. But EAS 
explain that it doesnt agree with the way that I proposed that things should be put right. It 
thought that the redress proposed by the investigator was fairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given full consideration to the facts of this case again, my final decision is the same 
as my provisional assessment. Ill explain why I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said that this case was in our jurisdiction. The reasons were 
explained by our investigator and then a decision given by an ombudsman to explain why we 
could consider this complaint. That decision explained that, in spite of Mr Ps complaint 
being made more than six years after the advice was given, it was made within three years 
of Mr P first becoming aware of the issue. I note that from EASs response that it still 
disagrees, but I consider that the issue it has was already answered correctly in the 
jurisdiction decision that it received. I will not repeat that decision here but confirm that I 
have fully considered the question of jurisdiction throughout my consideration of this 
complaint and agree that this complaint is in our jurisdiction.
Mr Ps complaint was specifically about the loss of his GARs, so only related to the transfer 
of one of his pensions. The other pension was a personal pension, with no guarantees. 
Nothing was lost in the switch of that pension. So this decision relates to the suitability of 
transferring the pension with GARs.
The information provided in this case is relatively limited. But EAS have assured us that it 
has provided all it has on file. Ive seen its fact-find and its recommendation letter to Mr P. 
And an email relating to the GAR attached to Mr Ps relevant policy.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that EAS were aware that Mr P had GARs for the personal 
pension that is complained about. They had email confirmation and a copy of the rates 
applicable on that policy. And EAS referred to it in a very limited way in its recommendation 
letter.
The GAR was a valuable guaranteed benefit. It was linked specifically to the policy that Mr P 
held. Mr P intended to retire at 65 when EAS provided him with advice. And the annuity rate 
table it had been provided with indicated that the minimum annuity rate available to Mr P on 
that policy was 10.8%. Which, even in 2009, was higher than could have been replicated for 
a level and single life annuity on the open market. EAS ought to have given proper 
consideration to whether it was in Mr Ps best interests to give that up. And I cant say that it 
did.
The recommendation was brief and lacked detail. There is a single sentence that mentions 
GARs. It said, I would mention that one of your contracts [Mr P] did have a guaranteed 
annuity, however this was on a single life no guarantee and paid in arrears. This was not a 
sufficient explanation.
Firstly, it doesnt explicitly say that transferring would mean that the guaranteed rates were 
lost. Secondly it doesnt explain what the guarantees were, or why they mattered. For 
instance, Mr P was provided no comparison of how those guaranteed minimum rates 
compared to open market annuity rates. It would have made him aware of how much more 
his annuity could be worth using those guarantees. Equally, annuity rates change, and the guarantee removed the risk of market annuity rates falling. Withholding this information 
means that I cant be certain that he knew what he was giving up by following EASs 
recommendation.
I can see that EAS mentioned that the GARs were limited to providing an annuity on a single 
life basis with no guarantees. Which I agree may not be suitable for everyone. But Mr P was 
still 12 years away from needing to decide how he would take his pension benefits in 
retirement. In fact EAS gave him no recommendation about how he might do so. So I dont 
think it was fair or reasonable of EAS to make an assumption that Mr P wouldnt want the 
benefits offered by the GAR in 12 years time. It was too far away to know what his 
circumstances would be. It was a decision that could be made later. Leaving this pension in 
the existing policy would have enabled him to consider all of his options at retirement age. 
Recommending that he transfer, permanently removed a very valuable way of taking his 
benefits in the future.
For the above reasons, I dont think that EASs recommendation to Mr P was suitable for 
him. So I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I need to try to determine what position Mr P would now be in if hed been given more 
suitable advice. EAS were instructed to give advice on Mr Ps pension and investments. Ive 
explained that I dont think it was suitable for EAS to recommend this pension transfer. But 
that doesnt mean that the alternative would have been for EAS to leave it exactly as it was, 
if that wasnt in Mr Ps best interests.
In its response to my provisional decision EAS ask that I consider the investigators 
proposed redress. Which suggested comparing the existing pension fund with the notional 
value if itd remained in the ceding scheme. But, for the same reasons that I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think that would generate a fair or reasonable outcome.
EAS determined that this pension was held in cash at the time of giving advice. EAS 
recommended that after transferring, the fund be invested in accordance with Mr Ps 
cautious ATR. So even though I dont think EASs recommendation to switch his pension 
was suitable, It would have had to have made an alternative recommendation. I think its 
more likely than not that it would have made a recommendation that the fund be invested in 
line with Mr Ps ATR. I say this because EAS ought to have been acting in Mr Ps best 
interests. It determined that he had a cautious ATR, so some form of investment would have 
been more appropriate than leaving the fund in cash. As it went on to identify in the 
recommendation that it gave.
I dont know what investment options were available to Mr P in his previous personal 
pension. EAS dont seem to have given any consideration to leaving that pension where it 
was and gave no explanation whether or not suitable investment options were already 
available. But I think its more likely than not that investment options for a cautious investor 
were available in the previous pension. I cant say that the fund could have been invested in 
the same way that was recommended following the transfer. The original pension may not 
have offered those exact options. As I cant say exactly how the fund would have been 
invested if it had remained where it was, I think that the fairest way to determine what that 
fund value may have been is to use an index to ascertain the notional value for Mr Ps 
previous pension fund.
Mr P explains that by age 65, he was no longer married and his children were no longer 
financially dependent on him. And at 65 he enquired of his pension provider if he could use 
his GARs. He even decided to defer taking his annuity to have this complaint regarding this resolved. So Im satisfied that he would more likely than not have used the GAR option if it 
had still been available to him. Hes explained that he would also have been likely to use his 
tax free cash option. EAS have suggested that taking tax free cash is not compatible with the 
availability of a GAR. But I disagree. I dont think that its unreasonable to assume that Mr P 
could have the need for a lump sum at the start of his pension, and still want to secure the 
best possible annual income with the remainder.
My intention is to put Mr P, as close as is possible, into the position he would most likely 
have been but for EASs unsuitable advice. I think he would have taken the option of tax free 
cash and made use of the GAR. EAS should compensate Mr P as follows:
1. Calculate the notional value of Mr Ps pension policy (with GAR) by applying the 
following benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds - from date 
of transfer to date that EAS is told that Mr P accepted this final decision. 
2. Obtain details of the GAR applying at the consumers exact age, at the date that EAS 
is told that Mr P accepted this decision, on a monthly in arrears, single life, no 
guarantee period basis.
3. Look up annuity rates on the date that EAS is informed that Mr P accepted this final 
decision, to determine a rate payable on the open market for the same format and 
age.
4. Assuming (2) is greater than (3), increase the value in (1) by the ratio of 75% x ((2) 
divided by (3)). Otherwise leave (1) unchanged.
5. Obtain the fund value at the date of calculation from the provider Mr P switched to as 
a result of the original advice. And determine the proportion of it accounted for by the 
transfer value of the pension under consideration.
6. The loss to Mr Ps pension funds at the date of calculation is calculated as the result 
of (4)  (5). If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr P would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
EAS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 Why is this index suitable?
Ive chosen this method of calculating the notional value of the pension because:
Mr P wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr P 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Executive Advisory Services 
Limited to compensate Mr P in the manner I have set out in Putting Things Right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman