DRN-4220487
The complaint
Mr L wasnt happy that HSBC UK Bank Plc stopped processing a cheque hed written, 
causing it to bounce. Mr L said this was inconvenient and had a negative effect on his 
reputation. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr L wrote a cheque to his builder. About a month later, the builder told 
Mr L the cheque had bounced. Mr L visited his local branch of HSBC to find out what had 
happened. It said it had stopped the cheque due to fraud and offered Mr L £10 as a gesture 
of goodwill. Mr L wasnt happy so complained. 
HSBC said the cheque had gone through additional security due to suspected fraud. It said it 
had tried to call Mr L to check the payment was genuine but it hadnt been able to speak to 
him. So, the cheque had been stopped. HSBC subsequently noted that a voicemail hadnt 
been left when it called Mr L. And it offered him £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr L didnt accept that amount. 
Our investigator thought HSBC needed to do more to put things right. She thought it should 
have done more to contact Mr L once the cheque had been flagged as suspected fraud 
and/or counterfeit. And she thought a further £240 (in addition to the goodwill payment of 
£10) would be a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. 
HSBC agreed with the investigators findings, but Mr L did not. He didnt think there was any 
justification for the banks actions and thought the amount recommended by our investigator 
was inadequate in light of potential damage to his reputation. As Mr L didnt agree with our 
investigators view, his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it didnt know the exact reason the cheque was stopped, except that it was for 
suspected fraud. It said the payment was unusual for the account, but it wasnt able to 
explain why it was unusual. So, I can understand why Mr L doesnt believe there was any 
justification for stopping the cheque. But I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to have a 
system in place to flag up instances of suspected fraud. HSBC said the additional checks it 
makes are done in the best interests of its customers, and I think thats fair. 
So, while HSBC cant say why the cheque was stopped, its clear there was something about 
it that triggered its system. And I think the key point here is that HSBC didnt follow its own 
guidelines once the cheque was flagged. Had it done that, Mr L could have verified the 
payment or at least taken action to limit the impact. 
HSBC said a decision must be made on whether to pay a cheque or return it by 2pm on the 
day the cheque is presented. And as Mr Ls cheque was being processed close to 2pm, 
HSBC said that was why it didnt try to call Mr L again after its first attempt. But I think HSBC 
could have phoned again and it should have left a voicemail as per its own guidelines. This 
might not have prevented the cheque from bouncing but if Mr L had known there was a 
problem, he could have taken action to avoid any potential damage to his reputation by 
perhaps issuing another cheque or paying the builder in another way. 
So, HSBC made a mistake and I think its fair to expect it to take action to put matters right. 
Our investigator thought it should pay Mr L a total amount of £250 to compensate him for the 
impact caused. Mr L thinks a much more substantial payment should be made. He said the 
builder was concerned the cheque bounced because Mr L had insufficient funds in his 
account. But that wasnt the cause and Mr L said hes never been late paying a bill before. 
He said he has a lot of contact with members of the construction industry and having a 
reputation for bouncing cheques is not good.  
When we direct a business to make an award for the impact its caused, we dont consider 
what might have happened and focus instead on what did happen. I can understand why 
Mr L is concerned about the potential impact the bounced cheque might have on his 
reputation, but I havent seen any evidence to show that it has had that effect. That said, I 
recognise it will have caused Mr L some amount of distress and a certain amount of 
inconvenience, so I think its fair to ask HSBC to compensate Mr L for that impact. And, on 
balance, I think a total amount of £250 would be a fair and reasonable way to do that. So, 
HSBC should pay Mr L a further £240 in addition to the £10 its already paid. 
I note that HSBC has also offered to write to Mr L to state that the cheque didnt bounce due 
to any error by him or due to any lack of funds. And I think that too will go some way to 
avoiding the potential impact on his reputation Mr L is worried about.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should do the 
following: 
pay Mr L £240 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service; 
write to Mr L within four weeks of the date of this decision to confirm that the cheque 
wasnt stopped due to any error by Mr L or due to any lack of funds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman