DRN-3637308
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was mis-sold a package bank account by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
What happened
On 19 September 2011 Mr S upgraded his account from a free account to a Plus package 
bank account. Mr S paid a fee for the account.
On 14 May 2016 Mr Ss account was changed from Plus package bank account to a 
Barclays bank account with Teck Pack.
Mr S has told us he only took a package account from the outset as he needed an overdraft 
facility and was advised by Barclays that the he could only have an overdraft facility if he 
took a package bank account.
Barclays considered Mr Ss complaint and upheld it in part paying him compensation from 
the time he opened the Plus package bank account in 2011 to when it was changed in 2016. 
As this part of Mr Ss complaint has already been upheld by Barclays it has not been 
considered by our service.
Mr S has said the compensation should extend further and cover the time after his account 
was changed to a Barclays bank account with Tech Pack, until it was later cancelled.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ss complaint didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr S disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My decision covers the time Mr Ss account was changed to a Barclays account with Tech 
Pack in 2016 onwards only. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
On 14 May 2016 Mr Ss account was migrated from a fee-paying Plus account to a fee-
paying Barclays bank account with Tech Pack. Barclays has explained the change to Mr Ss 
account took place because of a review carried out of the accounts it offered its customers. 
The result of this review was that Barclays decided to no longer offer the Plus package bank 
account to its customers. 
This type of review is not uncommon, and changes made as part of a review are generally 
considered fair. Although when changes such as this are made, we expect Barclays to give 
notice to its customers and explain the options that are available.
In support of Barclays following the correct procedures it has sent us evidence from the time 
Mr Ss account was changed.
On 4 March 2016 Barclays wrote to Mr S explaining his Plus account would be changing to a 
Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack on 13 May 2016. The letter outlined the cost of the 
account and the benefits that came with it.
The letter also gave Mr S several options. One of these options was:
If you decide you dont want Tech Pack, you're free to change your account to a Barclays 
Bank Account without Tech Pack but you'll need to let us know before 12 May 2016. By not 
opting for Tech Pack your account will still become a Barclays Bank Account  with no 
monthly account fee  but your insurance benefits will end. If you have an arranged 
overdraft, although your limit won't change, no part of your overdraft limit will be fee-free.
I think this letter clearly explains that Mr S was able to downgrade his account to a free 
account and keep his overdraft facility in place. So, I think at this time he would have been 
aware he did not need to have a fee-paying package bank account to have an overdraft 
facility.
Barclays wrote to Mr S again on 13 May 2016 referring to the previous letter it had sent on 4 
March 2016. The letter confirmed his account had now changed to a Barclays Bank account 
with Tech Pack. The letter also stated:
You can remove Tech Pack or add other Features Store Packs at any time
I think this letter would have reminded Mr S about the previous letter he should have 
received and explained that the Tech Pak was optional.
Mr S has explained that he never received the letters Barclays sent to him and unless 
Barclays can prove he received the letters it should compensate him for the time he held the 
Tech Pack. 
I have thought about what Mr S has said but to uphold his complaint for this reason I would 
need to be persuaded that he didnt receive either of the letters Ive mentioned above. 
I wouldnt expect Barclays to confirm each letter was received by Mr S. Its process of 
sending two separate letters highlighting the change is reasonable. I think it would be very 
unlikely for both letters sent at different times to the correct address not to reach their 
destination. I have also not seen any evidence that there were issues with the postal service 
around the time the letters were sent.
So, I think its likely Mr S received the information sent by Barclays about the change to his 
account and would therefore have been aware he was able to have an overdraft facility 
without having a fee-paying account.
As Mr S was aware he could continue to have an overdraft on a free-account from the time 
he received the letters explaining his account was changing it would be unreasonable of me 
to say Barclays has to compensate Mr S for not informing him he could have an overdraft on 
a free account from the time the account was changed in 2016.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman