DRN-2208548
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a claim for a 
burglary and voided her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J reported a burglary to RSA. When RSA investigated the details of the claim, it decided 
that although there was evidence that most of the items claimed for had been stolen, there 
wasnt evidence that a laptop had been taken during the burglary. As a result, RSA declined 
the claim on the basis of fraud and voided Mrs Js policy.
Mrs J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
that she thought that RSA had acted reasonably by turning down the claim and voiding the 
policy, as there wasnt evidence to show that the laptop had been stolen.
As Mrs J did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Js home was burgled and that items were stolen. The issue for me 
to consider is whether it was reasonable for RSA to turn down the claim and void the policy 
because of concerns about whether the laptop had been stolen.
Ive looked at why RSA thought that the laptop hadnt been stolen in the burglary. The laptop 
belonged to Mrs Js son and was provided to him by his work. When RSA asked Mrs J for 
evidence of owning the laptop, her son provided a photo of some of the serial numbers on 
the back of the laptop. The data contained within the photo showed that the photo had been 
taken about two months after the burglary. When RSA asked Mrs J and her son about this, 
they said that the original image had been taken by Mr Js sons employer when he was 
provided with the laptop, so he had taken a photo of the original photo, which was held on a 
work computer. They said that this meant the photo supplied was much more recent than the 
original photo, which was why the date of it was after the burglary. 
RSA asked further questions because it didnt think that the quality of the photo showed that 
it was a photo of a photo, such as there being no pixels showing or any signs of a light 
reflecting off a screen, which is what it would have expected if it was a photo of an image on 
a computer. On that basis, RSA thought that the photo that had been provided was an 
original photo of the laptop taken after Mrs J said it had been stolen.
Ive also looked at the photo and the underlying data. I can see that the photo was taken 
after Mrs J said the laptop was stolen. Ive thought about whether I think it is a photo of an 
image on a computer screen or a direct photo of the laptop itself. Having done, so I think it is 
more likely than not that its a photo of the laptop itself. This is because having taken a close 
look at the photo I cant see any indicators that it was a photo of an image on a computer 
screen, such as it showing the computer screen pixels. The underlying data showed that the 
photo had been taken after the burglary and Mrs J agreed that this was the case. So, I think 
that it was reasonable for RSA to have concerns about whether the laptop had been stolen 
in the burglary and to investigate this further.
As Mrs J still said that it was a photo of a photo, RSA asked her to provide the original photo 
taken by her sons employer or the underlying data for it. However, Mrs J said that the 
employer wasnt willing to cooperate, so she couldnt provide this. RSA also offered to 
contact the employer direct, if Mrs Js son consented to this. However, her son didnt want 
RSA to do this. So, I also think that RSA took reasonable steps to get evidence that the 
laptop had been stolen in the burglary, but that Mrs J wasnt able to provide further evidence 
to support her claim. On the basis of what it found in its investigation, I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to think that the laptop hadnt been stolen in the burglary and that the 
photo provided indicated that the laptop was still in possession after the date of the burglary. 
So, I also think it was reasonable for RSA to decide that the claim was exaggerated.
The next issue is whether it was reasonable for RSA to turn down the claim and void the 
policy. Ive looked at the wording of the policy and this says:
We believe our policyholders are honest  the contract between us is based on mutual trust. 
However, fraudulent insurance claims are occasionally made. Where fraud (which can 
include exaggeration) is detected, claims will not be paid and we may refer the matter to the 
police for criminal prosecution. The policy may be rendered invalid and we may take other 
action consistent with our legal rights.
So, I think that RSA was clear that an exaggerated claim was a form of fraud, what could 
happen where it thought that fraud had taken place and that this included turning down the 
claim and the policy being rendered invalid. So, I think that RSAs actions were in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Im aware that Mrs J said that she would be willing to remove the laptop from the claim, as 
that was the only part that was in question. However, given what RSA had found while it 
investigated the claim, I think that it was reasonable for it to use this information as part of its 
consideration of the claim as a whole and to turn it down on that basis. This is because 
under the Insurance Act 2015, where an insurer finds that there has been fraud, this means 
that it doesnt have to pay the claim at all. The Act also says that it can cancel the policy and 
keep the full premiums, which is what RSA did in this case.
Mrs J also raised concerns about how the person who investigated the claim for RSA dealt 
with her. Mrs J said that she felt pressured by the person and that she was made to feel like 
she was a liar. Ive listened to the phone calls between Mrs J and RSA. Having done so, I 
didnt hear anything that made me think that the person investigating the claim was putting 
pressure on Mrs J or suggesting that she was lying. I think that the person was clear about 
what she wanted and why and that she asked questions in a neutral and professional 
manner. Im aware that Mrs J might have felt differently about this, particularly as her claim 
was ultimately declined, but I didnt hear anything that caused me concern about the way the 
person approached the conversations with Mrs J.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that RSA acted reasonably by declining the claim 
and voiding Mrs Js policy, as I think that its investigation found that there was evidence to 
suggest that the laptop hadnt been taken during the burglary. I also dont think that RSA 
spoke to Mrs J in an inappropriate manner. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint or require RSA to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman