DRN-1618369
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc put a default on his credit file incorrectly, and he 
wants them to remove it. 
What happened
Mr K had an existing bank account and overdraft facility limit with HSBC. Between 
September 2018 and November 2018, HSBC sent Mr L several letters explaining that hed 
exceeded his overdraft and needed to credit funds to the account to prevent his facility being 
cancelled. In December 2018, HSBC then wrote to Mr L to confirm his facility had been 
cancelled. 
In mid-January 2019, HSBC sent Mr K a letter saying that hed exceed his facility limit for 
more than three months. They said that Mr K needed to either credit his account with the 
amount he was over his agreed limit  roughly £315 or repay the full outstanding balance  
roughly £3,815 before 5 February 2019. HSBC also said that if he didnt do either of these, 
theyd send him a demand for the full amount and pass his account to their repayment 
services team.
Mr K called HSBC on 6 February 2019 to discuss repaying the outstanding balance. He 
explained that he couldnt afford to clear the whole balance at once, but he could afford £100 
per month until July 2019 when hed then clear the final balance.  HSBC told Mr K that if he 
credited his account with roughly £184 before the 9 March 2019, theyd refund £130 of 
charges which would then bring him back within his overdraft limit and a default wouldnt be 
applied. So Mr K agreed to clear the excess amount at the end of February when got paid. 
However, in early February 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr K again to tell him that because hed 
remained in excess of his agreed overdraft limit, he needed to repay the full outstanding 
balance by 1 March. 
In mid-March 2019, HSBC closed Mr Ks account and registered a default on his credit file 
as hed exceeded his overdraft limit for three consecutive months. In August 2019, Mr K 
made a complaint to HSBC. 
HSBC upheld the complaint. They apologised for giving Mr K incorrect information and said 
that if he cleared the current outstanding balance of around £2,780, theyd remove the 
default. They also offered him £200 for the trouble and upset this had caused. 
Mr K didnt agree. He felt that the default should be removed before he repaid the 
outstanding balance, so he could obtain alternative borrowing to clear it. So he asked this 
service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. She felt that although 
HSBC had given Mr K incorrect information, the default would still have been applied as 
Mr K couldnt clear the outstanding balance until July. And she felt that by offering to remove 
the default once the balance was cleared and offering Mr K £200 compensation, HSBC had 
done enough to put things right.Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the agent told Mr K that if he cleared the excess of his overdraft by the 
end of the month the default wouldnt be applied. Ive listened to the call between Mr K and 
HSBC in early February 2019, and heard the agent tell Mr K that he only had 33 days left 
before his account would default if he didnt clear the excess. 
She also said that shed refund £130 of charges to Mr Ks account so he only had around 
£185 left to clear, and provided he cleared the excess before 9 March 2019 the default 
wouldnt be applied. I can see that Mr K did make the payment as agreed  so I can 
understand why he initially thought hed done enough to prevent a default being applied.
However, Ive also seen that Mr K received a further letter from HSBC on the 12 February 
2019 which said he needed to clear the full overdrawn balance immediately. But I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr K contacted HSBC to discuss this. I recognise that Mr K said he 
thought hed already agreed a repayment plan with HSBC of £100 per month, but I think it 
would be reasonable to believe that if he thought hed already had a plan in place, that he 
would have contacted HSBC to ask why hed received this demand.
Mr K told us that if hed known that a default was going to be applied to his credit file 
because of a couple of several hundred pounds then he would have cleared the balance to 
prevent this happening. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say this because Ive seen 
copies of the letters Mr K was sent by HSBC which explained the actions they would take if 
he didnt bring his account back within his limit. This included taking action through their 
repayment team and issuing a formal demand.
Looking at the letter that HSBC sent to Mr K in mid-January 2019, Ive seen that it gave Mr K 
two options  to either clear the amount he was over his overdraft limit or to clear the full 
balance, but this needed to happen before the 5 February 2019 to prevent them issuing a 
demand for the full outstanding balance. However, as Mr K didnt contact HSBC until 6 
February, so I think he ought to have reasonably been aware that HSBC would be asking 
him to repay the full balance by the time he called.
I recognise that Mr K was given conflicting information by the agent he spoke to initially. But 
Ive also seen that HSBC repeatedly attempted to contact Mr K throughout the six months he 
was in excess of his limit, but he didnt respond. I think the information contained in the 
letters was clear about the consequences if Mr K didnt take any action. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think HSBC did try to resolve the situation amicably with Mr K, but by the time he 
contacted them on 6 February, there were limited options available. So, I dont think HSBC 
treated Mr K unreasonably.
Looking at the case I can see that Mr K has told us that hes been caused financial difficulty 
from the default being applied, and I recognise that this wouldnt have helped Mr Ks 
financial situation. However, Mr Ks credit file would also have shown that he was in excess 
of his overdraft limit for nearly six months, which is likely to have affected his credit file, and 
potentially his ability to obtain further financing. So I cant reasonably say that HSBC are 
responsible for Mr K not being able to obtain further borrowing.I recognise this has been a distressing time for Mr K, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Mr K feels strongly 
about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for. But its 
not for me to punish a business for making a mistake.
Ive seen that HSBC have apologised and offered to remove the account default from Mr Ks 
credit file once the overdrawn balance is cleared. So, Im satisfied HSBC have 
acknowledged Mr Ks complaint and I think their offer of £200 compensation is reasonable 
for the trouble and upset caused.
As HSBC has already made an offer to pay Mr K £200 compensation and remove the default 
from his account once the outstanding overdraft balance has been cleared. Mr K should 
contact HSBC directly if he wishes to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman