DRN-1629170
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Experian Limited didnt show him information relating to a 
previous address.
What happened
Mr W signed up to Experians CreditExpert service, which let him monitor his credit file. The 
service asked him to give his full address history so that he could see details of any credit 
information from previous addresses. However, Mr W didnt provide a past address, which 
meant he couldnt see the information linked to it.
Because of this, Mr W was unaware of a court judgement affecting his credit score. He 
discovered it after being declined for an application.
Mr W asked for £30,000 compensation from Experian. He explained hed been declined for 
other applications too, and felt it was unfair that the creditors could see all his information 
when he couldnt. He felt that, looking at things pragmatically, Experian had failed to 
exercise reasonable skill and care in providing the service.
Experian explained that they werent able to monitor every customers account and check 
theyd given all the appropriate information. And they couldnt give a customer data for an 
address that the customer had not given them. They said theyd followed their terms and 
conditions, under which it was the customers responsibility to give accurate information, 
including previous addresses.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator.
I can understand why Mr Ws unhappy that he wasnt aware of the court judgement earlier, 
while creditors were aware of it. It seems that the difference there was because the creditors 
searched all of his relevant past addresses, while Mr W only entered one address into his 
CreditExpert profile  so he only saw information relating to that one address.
Under the terms of the account, Mr W was responsible for the information he provided, 
including making sure he didnt miss anything out. And Experian were only supposed to 
provide information for the addresses he gave them. So I dont think Experian did anything 
wrong there.
Thinking on a pragmatic basis, Experian couldnt know which addresses Mr W did or didnt 
consider relevant  that was up to Mr W to provide. And Im afraid I dont agree that 
reasonable care extends to micro-managing millions of customers accounts to double-check 
theyre sure they gave all the right information. I think its reasonable for Experian to have 
generated the report based on the information they were given.
So while I appreciate it would be frustrating to only see limited information, I dont think that 
what happened here was due to any error on Experians part.
I also appreciate that Mr W wouldve liked Experian to have specifically got in touch with him 
to let him know the possibility that he may have forgotten an old address. But thats not part 
of the service that he paid for, nor is it something that Experian claimed they offered. So 
I cant fairly say that they made an error by not contacting him.
To make sure hes aware of his full credit information, Mr W should double-check that hes 
entered all relevant previous addresses into his profile.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman