DRN-2857211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel
insurance policy. Reference to Ageas includes reference to its agents.
What happened
On 11 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Ageas. 
They had a trip planned from 13 March 2020 to 17 March 2020. Mr and Mrs B departed as 
planned. On 13 March 2020, the government of Mr and Mrs Bs destination country 
introduced a mandatory 14 day self-quarantine period for all arrivals. Visitors could choose 
to either enter mandatory self-quarantine or return home as soon as possible. Mr and Mrs B 
were transported to their hotel and told theyd need to stay there for fourteen days, ten days 
longer than their planned trip. Or, they could return home. Mr and Mrs B chose to return 
home. They made a claim against their policy for the cost of their trip and additional travel 
costs.
Ageas declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Bs destination country didnt 
announce self-isolation for anyone entering the country until 15 March 2020, after Mr and 
Mrs B departed. Ageas said that self-isolation as a precautionary measure isnt the same 
as quarantine. So, it said that the reason for Mr and Mrs Bs claim doesnt fall within the 
policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mr and Mrs B were 
subject to quarantine, which was an insured event under the curtailment section of their 
policy. The investigator thought that Ageas should deal with Mr and Mrs Bs claim in 
accordance with the remaining terms of the policy.
Ageas didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
Mr and Mrs B werent subject to quarantine as they chose to return home rather 
than self-isolate  self-isolation isnt the same as quarantine.
The policy wording is clear about what scenarios leading to curtailment are 
covered under the policy and what happened here isnt one of the scenarios.
Previous decisions by this service have agreed with its stance.
The investigator considered what Ageas said but it didnt change his view. Ages asked
that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 3 June 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint with additional reasons than had been 
mentioned before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion 
of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to pay and you 
suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel before the start of 
your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the period of insurance 
because of the following:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you []
What you are NOT covered for
[]
7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country; 
[]
10. any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from a tour operator, public transport 
operator, accommodation provider, holiday services provider or any other source, or for 
which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or other assistance;
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Ageas has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I propose to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs B departed from the UK on 13 March 2020, there was no 
advice from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) which said they should 
not travel to their destination country. So, Mr and Mrs B werent acting against 
FCO advice in travelling to their destination.
After Mr and Mrs B had started their outward journey on 13 March 2020, but 
before they arrived at their destination, the government of their destination 
country imposed a mandatory 14 day self-quarantine period for all arrivals. 
The investigator has previously supplied the link to the UK government 
website which sets out the self-quarantine measures introduced by                 
Mr and Mrs Bs destination country on 13 March 2020.
There are two limbs to Ageas refusal of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. First, Ageas says 
that Mr and Mrs Bs destination country didnt announce self-isolation for anyone 
entering the country until 15 March 2020. Thats not correct for the reasons Ive set 
out above.
The second limb of Ageas refusal of Mr and Mrs Bs claim is that self-isolation as a 
precautionary measure isnt the same as quarantine. The UK government website 
reports that there was a mandatory 14 day self-quarantine period for all arrivals. I 
think that amounts to quarantine.I dont think Ageas is right to say that Mr and Mrs B werent subject to quarantine 
as they chose to return home rather than self-isolate. The destination country 
introduced quarantine measures. Mr and Mrs B were subject to those measures. 
They chose to return home rather than to continue in quarantine. I dont think the 
fact that they chose to return home means that they were not subject to quarantine 
in the first place. The policy covers cancellation and curtailment due to quarantine.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were subject to quarantine on arrival at their 
destination country. So, an insured event occurred here.
Mr and Mrs B have provided written confirmation from their travel provider that it 
wont cover the costs of their claim. So, their costs arent recoverable from another 
source. I think theyve taken reasonable steps to recover their losses from the 
provider.
Ageas has also referred to an exclusion in Mr and Mrs Bs policy which says that 
they are not covered for claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country. Prohibitive regulations by a government may relate to 
national lockdown or the closure of its airspace, for example.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on this exclusion in the 
particular circumstances of this case. Thats because one of the insured events 
under the cancellation and curtailment provisions is being subject to quarantine. Its 
difficult to envisage quarantine provisions which couldnt also be referred to as 
prohibitive regulations by a government. I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
Ageas to include being subject to quarantine as one of the insured events under 
the cancellation and curtailment provision and then seek to exclude it in this way.
Ageas has referred to other decisions made by this service which it says agree 
with its stance in this case. Each case is decided on its own facts and merits. But 
Ive looked at the cases to which Ageas refers. The facts of those cases are 
substantially different. Here, Mr and Mrs B were subject to quarantine in their 
destination country and curtailed their trip because of that quarantine. Thats an 
insured event.
I think that a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Ageas to deal with
Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the remaining terms of their policy. The policy covers 
unused travel and accommodation costs that Mr and Mrs B cant recover from 
elsewhere. It doesnt cover the costs of additional return flights and other 
additional travel costs. Ageas should also pay Mr and Mrs B interest on any 
settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B said that they had no further comments or information. Ageas agreed with 
my provisional decision without prejudice to liability. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs B nor Ageas have provided any substantive comment in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied than an insured event occurred here.                
Mr and Mrs Bs costs arent recoverable from another source. In the particular circumstances 
of this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to seek to rely on the exclusion to 
which its referred. A fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to deal with Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim under the remaining terms of their policy and pay interest on any settlement. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Ageas should deal with Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the remaining 
terms of their policy. It should also pay interest on the settlement at the simple rate of 8% per 
year from the date Mr and Mrs B made their claim to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. Ageas must give
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is  that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I now require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman