DRN-3748012
The complaint
Mr S complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive Investor) gave 
misleading information about the whereabouts of a consolidated tax certificate (CTC) and 
held a second account, which he had not opened. These errors led him to incur additional 
accountancy fees, for which he seeks compensation.
What happened
Mr S held a trading account with Interactive Investor, which had transferred from another 
provider. In July 2021, Mr S contacted Interactive Investor seeking assistance in printing a 
statement for his tax return. Interactive Investor responded, giving instructions as to how to 
navigate the online account. When Mr S downloaded the information, he provided it to his 
accountant and was advised that the information was incomplete. Interactive Investor 
explained that more information would be provided online in July. 
In September 2021, Interactive Investor advised Mr S that his CTC was available and gave 
access details, referring to a particular account. Mr S maintains that the information he found 
was inadequate for his tax return, so his accountant completed the calculations, leaving him 
with a bill of £1140. Mr S sent the bill to Interactive Investor in April 2022.
Interactive Investor say that Mr S had opened a second account with the previous provider 
before the accounts migrated. They rely upon a welcome email sent to Mr S, which he has 
since found in an archive folder. Interactive Investor therefore held two accounts for Mr S, 
which were accessible on their online platform. The CTC was available to Mr S under the 
lead account. Interactive Investor accept that Mr S was incorrectly directed to the wrong 
account to locate the CTC in September 2021, for which they have apologised and offered 
£150 to compensate for this shortcoming.
Mr S denies opening a second account at any time and says he was unaware that 
information was being held under a different account number. He relied upon the direction 
from Interactive Investor to search under the wrong account number.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think the opening of a second account 
was central to the complaint, rather the complaint stemmed from the information provided by 
Interactive Investor. Our investigator agreed that Interactive Investor had provided incorrect 
information to Mr S, when it was said that an up-to-date CTC could be found under a second 
account reference. But when Mr S knew in September that his accountant did not have what 
they needed, he failed to go back to Interactive Investor for more information. Mr S didnt 
make contact for another six months, by which time additional work had been carried out. 
Our investigator thought it was fair for Interactive Investor to compensate Mr S for the 
distress caused by the giving of wrong information, namely of £150. He did not think it was 
fair for Interactive Investor to refund the additional accountancy fees as Mr S failed to seek 
further information, despite being advised by his accountant that the information provided 
was incomplete.
Mr S disagrees with the view. He says he was unaware a second account existed so didnt 
look for it, he relied upon the information he found, which Interactive Investor had directed 
him to. He thought Interactive Investor had failed to include historic data.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres nothing to show that Interactive Investor did anything wrong in migrating a second 
account and Ive seen the welcome email sent to Mr S from Interactive Investors 
predecessor when the account was opened, setting out the account details. Mr S has 
subsequently located this email in an archive folder, so it appears information was sent to 
him about it. However, I consider that this complaint turns on the information Interactive 
Investor gave to Mr S about the CTC and the steps he took in response to it.
It is common ground that Interactive Investor incorrectly told Mr S to search for the up-to-
date CTC under the wrong account. Its clear from the email chain between Mr S and his 
accountant that he knew in September 2021 that the information he had found was 
inadequate. The accountant indicated that an estimate could be used until Mr S had the 
correct documentation, which could be provided within a few weeks. If Mr S had gone back 
to Interactive Investor at this point, I think it is more likely than not that the information he 
required would have been provided. Ive seen that Mr S later found the applicable CTC 
under a second account reference, which bolsters my view that it was available at the time. 
Ultimately, the information Mr S required was available on the platform and Mr S gave the 
instruction to his accountant to proceed without seeking clarification from Interactive Investor 
when he had ample time to do so. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that it is fair and 
reasonable to ask Interactive Investor to compensate Mr S for the cost of additional 
accountancy work.
However, I do agree that Interactive Investor caused Mr S inconvenience in directing him to 
the wrong account number to find the CTC. I think it is fair and reasonable to compensate for 
this and in my view £150 is a reasonable award. So, I wont be asking Interactive Investor to 
do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint. It is 
now for Mr S to decide whether to accept the offer of £150, if it has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman