DRN-3700584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim they made 
under their home emergency policy.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
In early December 2021, Mrs H contacted UKI because of an issue with her boiler that was 
suspected to be due to a leak. The problem meant they had no heating or hot water at 
home. UKI initially told Mrs H that she would need to arrange for trace and access in order to 
locate the leak and help solve the problem. A few days later, UKI told Mrs H that it would 
arrange the trace and access instead, so she cancelled the arrangements shed made.
In the weeks that followed, there were various issues and delays. The issues included 
appointments with UKI agents being cancelled without notice or explanation, a valve being 
fitted incorrectly and the wrong type of engineer being sent out. Mrs H was then told that 
UKIs agents wouldnt carry out the trace and access, despite being told, a few weeks 
before, that they would. This delayed the trace and access for another few weeks, with Mr 
and Mrs H remaining without heating or hot water. 
By the time the leak was located and isolated, Mr and Mrs H had replaced their boiler which 
they say was out of sheer desperation to try to fix the problem. They say they were 
influenced by comments from the engineers regarding the leak not being visible and the 
possibility that the boiler was at fault.
Mr and Mrs H were left without heating or hot water for around six weeks over the Christmas 
period. This prevented Mrs Hs elderly mother-in-law from being able to stay with them, as 
she normally would at that time. Mr and Mrs H decided to pay for her to stay in a nursing 
home so they could still see her.
After Mr and Mrs H complained, UKI offered them £750 in addition to £400 that had already 
been offered by their agents. Mr and Mrs H declined both offers of compensation. They 
didnt think this was enough to put things right. They thought UKI should reimburse them for 
Mrs Hs mother-in-laws nursing home stay and the cost of replacing their boiler. 
Our investigator thought UKIs total offer of £1,150 was fair and reasonable. She didnt think 
UKI needed to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the cost of the new boiler or the nursing home 
stay because these werent covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators view. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im aware that Mrs H has raised some other concerns with UKI since bringing her complaint 
to our service, which mainly relate to her buildings insurance. To be clear, I will only be 
considering the matters that were covered in the final response letters dated 26 January 
(from UKIs agents) and 21 February 2022 (from UKI).
The relevant industry rules say that the insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Mr and Mrs Hs home emergency policy with UKI says it will pay for emergency assistance 
needed if the main source of heating in your home fails.
UKI has acknowledged various issues with the service it provided and the associated delay 
in getting Mr and Mrs Hs heating working. So, rather than looking to see whether there were 
delays, Ive needed to think about the impact the accepted delays had on Mr and Mrs H. And 
whether or not UKIs offer of compensation is enough to put things right. 
Boiler replacement
Mr and Mrs H have asked that UKI reimburse them the £2,680 they paid to replace their 
boiler and have their hot water tank removed. They say they decided to replace the boiler 
out of sheer desperation to try to fix the problem themselves. They say that there were 
frequent comments by the engineers UKI sent to their house like I dont know what is going 
on here but if there was a leak it would be showing itself somewhere by this stage and It 
would be unusual but it could still be the boiler at fault. 
Mr and Mrs H have also commented that as UKI mistakenly sent an oil engineer to their 
property instead of a gas engineer, and several other appointments were cancelled, UKI 
never ruled out the boiler as being the problem. 
The policy terms and conditions say UKI Wont pay to replace your main source of 
heating. They do say: If we find out your boiler is beyond economic repair, we will pay £250 
towards the cost of a new one. However, from what Ive seen, UKI hadnt determined that 
Mr and Mrs Hs boiler was beyond economic repair or needed replacing. And Mr and Mrs H 
havent provided any firm evidence to show this was the case either.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the terms of the policy dont require UKI to reimburse Mr 
and Mrs H for the cost of their boiler or to pay anything towards it.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H were frustrated that things werent moving forward as they should 
have and were desperate to restore their homes heating. While UKI might not have ruled 
out the issue being the boiler, it also hadnt ruled out that there was a leak elsewhere. And I 
havent seen any evidence that UKI advised Mr and Mrs H to replace their boiler or agreed 
to cover the cost of it. So, I wont be asking UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for replacing 
their boiler.
Nursing home cost
Mr and Mrs H have also requested that UKI reimburse them £236 that they paid for Mrs Hs 
mother-in-law to stay in a nursing home over the Christmas period. I appreciate it was 
important for Mr and Mrs H to have Mrs Hs mother-in-law nearby at that time of year. I 
understand they are her only close family in the country. I also appreciate that it wouldnt be 
suitable for her to stay in a house without hot water or heating, particularly given the time of 
year. However, from what Ive been told, Mrs Hs mother-in-law doesnt normally live with Mr and 
Mrs H. So, she wouldnt be covered by the policy. While I understand the reasons behind Mr 
and Mrs Hs decision to pay for her to be nearby over Christmas, this was ultimately their 
choice to do so. And I dont think it would be proportionate for me to require UKI to pay for 
accommodation for someone that doesnt usually live at the address and isnt covered by the 
policy. However, I have considered this issue as part of the overall impact of UKIs handling 
of the claim on Mr and Mrs H  because whilst I dont think it should reimburse them for 
nursing home fees, I do recognise the trouble and inconvenience of the situation was as a 
result of issues caused by UKIs handling of the claim.
Overall impact
I can see that Mrs H made UKI aware that she had hospital appointments due to a possibly 
serious health condition early on in the claim, and UKI noted she was vulnerable because of 
this. Shes also mentioned having to take some time off work because of the stress. I 
understand that Mrs H had to stay in on more than one occasion waiting for engineers that 
didnt attend the property. I can also see that Mrs H spent a great deal of time and effort 
contacting UKI and its agents in an attempt to try to sort things out. 
Mr and Mrs H had to live in a cold house and had to visit neighbours or relatives to shower 
for around six weeks. This would have been particularly distressing over the festive period. It 
was no doubt frustrating and disappointing for Mr and Mrs H when they couldnt have       
Mrs Hs mother-in-law stay with them. 
However, UKI have offered Mr and Mrs H a total of £1,150. This is in the range of what wed 
expect a business to pay where its mistakes have caused substantial distress, upset and 
worry. This would include situations where there has been serious disruption to daily life over 
a sustained period, with the impact felt over many months, or there has been a substantial 
short-term impact. So, having considered all of Mr and Mrs Hs points carefully, I think UKIs 
offer is a fair amount to put things right.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs H £1,150 if they accept my decision.
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs H £1,150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman