DRN-3697083
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have handled the 
appointment of solicitors to act on his behalf under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead in this decision, I am also referring to their claims
 handlers.
What happened
Mr C has LEI with Fairmead. They accepted his claim for cover in relation to a legal 
dispute which he made in April 2018. In August 2021 another ombudsman at the 
Financial Ombudsman Service decided Fairmead should allow Mr C to appoint his own 
solicitors to act on his behalf, subject to Fairmead agreeing terms of appointment with 
them.
Mr C complains Fairmead is wrongly insisting on his solicitors accepting their terms and 
conditions, which his policy doesnt allow. He says Fairmead tried to impose a conditional 
fee agreement (CFA) which the policy doesnt require. Mr Cs unhappy Fairmead wouldnt 
accept the judgment of his solicitors about the complexity of his legal case and the 
expertise required to manage it. He said the hourly rate they offered the solicitors 
restricted his choice of solicitor. And hes unhappy Fairmead wont agree to make interim 
payments to his solicitors for their fees. Overall Mr C thinks Fairmead have prevented his 
claim from progressing and intimidated him.
Fairmead said they were asking Mr Cs solicitors to accept their standard terms and 
conditions in line with the terms of his policy. They confirmed they wouldnt require Mr C 
to enter into a CFA with his solicitors. And they explained the provisions about costs 
they required the solicitors to agree clarified the provisions about costs in his policy. 
Fairmead said they were allowed to negotiate a reasonable hourly rate with his 
solicitors. They wouldnt agree to pay the solicitors fees on an interim basis but offered 
to fund disbursements subject to certain conditions. And they said if the proposals theyd 
made werent acceptable to Mr Cs solicitors, hed need to appoint another firm. 
Fairmead acknowledged theyd delayed in contacting Mr Cs solicitors and offered him 
compensation of £150 for the inconvenience that had caused him.
Mr C didnt accept Fairmeads response to his complaint, so he brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted within the terms of the LEI 
policy and that the £150 theyd offered Mr C was fair to compensate him for their delays. 
Since Mr C didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs concerned about how long his legal case is taking. And I 
acknowledge his strength of feeling about the way Fairmead has acted since the previous 
ombudsmans decision in August 2021. I can see there was a delay in Fairmead paying 
the compensation the ombudsman awarded, although I am pleased to see its now been 
paid. I cant get involved in the earlier complaint. My decision addresses only the concerns 
Mr Cs raised about whats happened since.
Mr Cs provided a lot of detailed information which has helped my understanding of his 
complaint. I dont set it all out here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of the service we provide. Ive taken into account everything he and 
Fairmead have told us in reaching a provisional decision I think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
In summary, Mr Cs key concerns are as follows:
Fairmead have wrongly tried to impose their standard terms and conditions in 
relation to the appointment of solicitors on Mr Cs solicitors. The policy doesnt 
allow for that.
The agreement Fairmead seek to agree with the solicitors has the effect of a CFA 
by limiting the costs Fairmead will pay the solicitors in certain situations. The 
policy says a CFA is not a requirement for non-panel firms of solicitors.
The hourly rates Fairmead initially proposed and subsequently tried to negotiate 
with his solicitors are unreasonable and outside the terms of the policy, which 
said theyd pay reasonable fees.
Fairmead have tried to impose their own judgment as to the complexity of the 
case, the level of fee earner required to deal with it and the hourly rate they 
should pay; as experienced professionals, the opinion of Mr Cs solicitors on 
these issues should take precedence.
Fairmead have refused to make interim payments of fees. Mr C says the policy 
provides for interim fees to be made and website information suggests Fairmead 
will fund the reasonable costs and expenses necessary to run a policyholders 
case.
Fairmead have intimidated Mr C by, amongst other things, repeatedly saying 
hed have to appoint alternative solicitors if their terms and conditions arent 
agreed.
Insurer/solicitor agreement
I agree with Mr C that his policy doesnt provide for Fairmead to impose their standard 
terms and conditions on solicitors who are appointed to represent him. So their standard 
terms and conditions dont form part of the insurance contract and Fairmead cant require 
them to be put in place.
But it is standard industry practice for insurers to enter into direct agreements with 
solicitors who are appointed to act on a policyholders behalf under a LEI policy. Its not 
unreasonable for a LEI insurer to want clarity on key issues such as reporting and fee 
arrangements. Its reasonable for them to monitor whether policy cover continues to apply 
as a case progresses. And it wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer to become responsible 
for paying fees over which they have no control and for which they have potentially 
unlimited liability.
So, its fair for Fairmead to put an agreement in place with Mr Cs solicitors. And the 
previous ombudsmans decision envisaged they would do so. The issue is whether the 
terms and conditions Mr C complains about are compatible with the terms of the policy and 
fair and reasonable for Mr C.Fairmead confirmed in their response to Mr Cs complaint that they wouldnt require a 
CFA to be put in place between Mr C and his solicitors. But I dont think that addresses 
Mr Cs concerns which are that the standard terms and conditions limit the amount of 
costs Fairmead might pay the solicitors, potentially leaving him liable for any shortfall.
The policy says Fairmead will pay costs up to a limit of £50,000 to pursue a legal 
action. Costs are defined in the policy as
 i) all reasonable and necessary costs charged by the [solicitors] on a standard 
basis or in accordance with the Predictable Costs scheme if this is appropriate; 
and
ii) all reasonable and necessary fees and expenses [Mr C is] ordered to pay or 
[has] agreed to pay with [Fairmeads] prior written agreement;
where these fees and expenses cannot be recovered elsewhere and have been 
agreed in writing by [Fairmead].
Fairmead are only liable to pay reasonable and necessary costs, and the policy allows 
Fairmead to have them assessed to check they are. The policy only covers standard 
costs or those incurred under the predictable costs scheme. So, if, for example, costs 
were awarded against Mr C on an indemnity basis, there may be a balance Mr C would 
have to meet himself. Fairmeads liability to pay Mr Cs legal costs is also limited to those 
costs he cant recover (irrecoverable costs) up to the £50,000 policy limit.
My understanding of clauses 2.3 to 2.6 of the standard terms and conditions Fairmead 
want to agree with the solicitors is that they limit the costs Fairmead will pay so that they 
wont be liable for any irrecoverable costs, save at their discretion. Thats incompatible with 
the terms of the policy. Unless Mr Cs liability to the solicitors is limited in the same way  
under a CFA, for example - hed remain liable to pay them any shortfall in their fees that 
Fairmead dont pay. Whilst Mr C would be entitled to be paid irrecoverable costs in line 
with the policy terms, hed potentially have the inconvenience of resolving payment of fees 
with his solicitors direct.
Of course, that situation hasnt arisen yet, so Mr C hasnt suffered any loss. And, ultimately, 
its for Fairmead to decide what to include in the agreement with the solicitors so I wont 
direct them to make any changes. But they should consider if any changes are required to 
the costs provisions in the proposed agreement to check they are compatible with the 
policy.
Hourly rates
General condition 4 of the LEI policy says, broadly, that where Mr C is allowed to appoint 
his own solicitors, Fairmead will not pay more than they would have paid one of their panel 
solicitors. But the policy doesnt set out the hourly rate, so Mr C isnt obliged to accept a 
particular figure under the insurance contract.
Fairmead initially offered Mr Cs solicitors £100 an hour. They explained that was the 
discounted rate theyd agreed with their panel solicitors. I think £100 an hour is likely to 
reflect, in part, the volume of work Fairmead sends their panel firms and their wider 
commercial relationships. Mr C has produced a list of fees charged by one of the panel firms 
previously involved in his case. He said £100 was paid in unsuccessful cases and Fairmead 
paid higher rates on successful cases. The standard terms and conditions suggest thats 
probably right since they say £100 an hour may be paid where a case is unsuccessful, or costs arent recovered. I havent seen any conclusive evidence on the point, but I dont think 
it matters, as Ill explain.
Case law says an insurer may restrict the fees they pay a non-panel solicitor as long as 
what they pay isnt so low as to render the policyholders freedom of choice of solicitors 
meaningless. And the policy says Insurers will pay reasonable legal costs on the basis 
Ive set out above.
Wed expect a LEI insurer to offer a fair hourly rate that takes into account factors such as 
the nature of the legal case and court guideline hourly rates for the solicitors involved and 
the area in which the work is being carried out. I think the £100 offered initially was 
unreasonable. The court Guideline Hourly Rates published at the time for solicitors in the 
relevant area were higher, even for the lowest level of fee earner. So, I think Mr Cs 
freedom of choice was rendered meaningless as a result. But Im pleased to see Fairmead 
subsequently considered things on the basis wed expect.
Mr Cs unhappy Fairmead didnt accept his solicitors view as to the level of fee earner 
required to handle his legal case and the rate they should be entitled to charge. But I think 
Fairmead fairly considered the information available as to the complexity and value of the 
claim and asked Mr Cs solicitors for an explanation. Based on that, I think they fairly 
offered to pay a rate of £198 in October 2021 when the solicitors were asking for £201 plus 
VAT in August. I can see they negotiated further and most recently increased the rate 
theyll pay to £216 plus VAT, a blended rate of grade A and C fee earners under more 
recently published Guideline Hourly Rates. Since that is close to the figure the solicitors will 
accept - £236.50, a blended rate of Grade A and B fee earners - Mr Cs said he would be 
prepared to pay the difference.
In the end, I think Fairmead have made a fair offer. And I think the compromise proposed 
is a fair way to resolve this issue. But Fairmead should have made a more reasonable 
offer initially. I think their failure to do so has contributed to the delay in agreeing terms 
and progressing the legal claim.
Time for payment of the solicitors fees
Mr C says the effect of general conditions 5 and 10 of his LEI policy is that Fairmead 
should pay fees theyve authorised once theyd been invoiced. He says cover is provided 
to pursue a case, and website information says costs will be paid to run a case, which 
imply costs will be paid as the case goes along. Fairmead say the combined effect of 
general conditions 5 and 10 of the LEI policy is that solicitors charges are paid at the 
conclusion of the case.
The effect of general condition 5 is that Fairmead wont be responsible for any fees they 
havent authorised in advance. It doesnt imply theyll pay those fees once theyve been 
incurred and invoiced. It simply means that if they arent pre-authorised, they wont be 
paid at all. General condition 10 explains Fairmead can have the solicitors costs 
assessed to check if they are reasonable and necessary before they pay them. It doesnt 
address when Fairmead should pay them.
Its not uncommon for LEI policies to provide for legal fees to be paid at the end of a case
and we dont generally consider it to be unfair. Since costs and expenses are usually 
assessed at the end of a case, and its possible costs will be recovered from the 
opponent, the irrecoverable costs insurers are responsible for wont be known until then.
I acknowledge the impact on Mr C is that hell need to fund his solicitors fees as his 
legal claim progresses unless they will agree not to bill him on an interim basis. Im not aware Mr C will be unable to pay their fees. So, based on what I know so far I dont think 
it would be fair to require Fairmead to pay the solicitors fees on an interim basis. I note 
theyve agreed to fund disbursements on a quarterly basis subject to certain conditions. I 
think thats fair. And whilst I understand Mr C has proposed to his solicitors hell pay their 
fees, as well as disbursements, on a quarterly basis, thats a matter for him.
Distress and inconvenience
I acknowledge Mr Cs been trying to progress his legal claim. I can understand its been 
frustrating Fairmead werent able to come to an agreement with his solicitors about their 
costs sooner. I think Fairmead could have moved things along more quickly if theyd made 
a reasonable initial offer on hourly rates. And theyve accepted they delayed initially in 
progressing things after the previous ombudsmans decision.
I can understand why Mr C has found some of Fairmeads comments upsetting. Hes 
argued strongly they need to review their terms and conditions regarding payment of costs. 
And hes spent a great deal of time and effort communicating with Fairmead. Fairmeads 
response has generally been that Mr C would need to appoint alternative solicitors if their 
terms and conditions arent agreed as drafted. I can understand Mr C has found their 
approach unreasonable.
Fairmead made reasonable efforts to agree terms with Mr Cs solicitors, as Id expect, 
before Mr C unusually took over the negotiations. And they have compromised by offering 
to pay disbursements on an interim basis. But I dont think they fully understood or 
addressed Mr Cs concerns about provisions in the standard terms and conditions that 
looked like a CFA, which added to Mr Cs frustration.
On balance, to reflect the impact on Mr C of the delays and responses to his concerns, I 
think its fair for Fairmead to pay him compensation of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience, inclusive of the £150 theyve already offered.
My provisional decision
To put things right I intend to direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to consider whether any 
changes are needed to the costs provisions in the standard terms and conditions they 
wish to agree with the solicitors, so they are compatible with the LEI policy; and pay    
Mr C £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Both Mr C and Fairmead responded to my provisional decision. Fairmead said on the 
one hand they accepted it, but on the other that a decision about whether to consider 
changing the policy wording needed to be made by underwriters. Mr C didnt accept my 
provisional decision. He set out some detailed arguments, which in large part reiterated 
points hed raised previously. In summary he said:
Fairmead werent allowed under the LEI policy or legislation, and it wasnt fair, to 
put an agreement in place with his solicitors, even in modified form 
The policy already requires Mr C to instruct his solicitors to provide Fairmead with 
updates and contains provisions to control legal costs, so nothing further is 
needed 
The standard terms and conditions seek to make his solicitors accountable to 
Fairmead, which would impact the solicitors professional duties to him as their 
client and change the effect of his insurance contract - making it a CFA and 
limiting the costs contrary to the £50,000 policy limitThe policy is unclear about the hourly rate Fairmead will pay, so its fair and in 
line with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the rate should be determined in favour 
of his solicitors, not Fairmead
For the same reason, its right Fairmead should make interim payments. Its unfair 
to Mr C not to take into account that smaller non-panel firms, like the one he 
wishes to use, need to be paid on an interim basis as it unfairly restricts his 
choice of solicitor
The provisional direction I made about Fairmead considering changes to the 
standard terms and conditions to make it compatible with the policy wasnt 
sufficiently clear. It would be more appropriate for Fairmead to prepare a revised 
agreement to fill in any identifiable gaps in the existing policy. In addition to 
costs, other clauses in the standard terms and conditions imposed restrictions 
that didnt appear in the policy, such as Clause 1.4 concerning reasonable 
prospects of success. A time limit for making any changes should be set
I didnt take into account fully that Fairmead had deliberately misrepresented the 
effect of the standard terms and conditions and tried to impose a CFA
Ill address the parties comments below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont set out all the arguments 
Mr C has raised here. But Id like to reassure him Ive considered everything hes said.
Mr Cs made several points by reference to the Consumer Rights Act 2015, contract law 
and guidance set out on the Financial Ombudsman website about how we approach 
complaints about LEI. The Act wouldnt apply to any agreement between Mr Cs 
solicitors and Fairmead as two businesses. And only a court can determine if a term in 
Mr Cs LEI policy is unfair. But Ive taken relevant legislation, law, rules, guidelines and 
industry best practice into account when weighing up what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable - to both parties - in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, which is the 
basis on which I must come to my decision. 
Mr Cs raised issues about whether Fairmead gave their claims handler permission to 
put the standard terms and conditions in place. Hes unhappy Fairmead havent 
responded to questions about that. And hes questioned whether Fairmead have 
breached Financial Conduct Authority principles. These issues arent part of his current 
complaint, so I dont address them here.
Mr Cs referred to a decision made by another ombudsman in relation to a complaint 
made by another customer to support his case. I make my decision based on the 
individual circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, not by reference to previous decisions. 
Ill comment using the same headings I used in my provisional decision.
Insurer/solicitor agreement
As I said in my provisional decision, the previous ombudsman decided in August 2021 
that Mr C could appoint his own solicitors. In case theres any confusion about what the 
previous ombudsman said, I quote from his decision as follows: I think it would be appropriate for Fairmead now to allow Mr C to appoint his own 
solicitors to deal with the matter. It [Fairmead] will of course be entitled to agree 
terms with that solicitor in relation to, for example, the hourly rate to be paid; 
I made it clear in my provisional decision that Fairmead would be entitled to 
agree terms with Mr Cs solicitor and he accepted what I said on that basis; 
it remains my view that in this case it would be appropriate for Fairmead to allow 
Mr C to instruct his own solicitor (subject to normal terms of appointment) if thats 
what he wants to do; and
Fairmead Insurance Limited will need to put things right by allowing Mr C to 
appoint his own solicitor to deal with the matter (subject to agreeing terms with 
that solicitor in relation to, for example, the hourly rate to be paid).
Ive considered Mr Cs points as to why its not necessary or fair, given the terms of the 
insurance policy, contract law and legislative provisions hes referred to, for there to be a 
separate agreement between Fairmead and the solicitors. And I note his point that the 
previous ombudsmans reference to normal terms of appointment meant the terms set 
out in the policy itself. 
But I am not deciding whether Fairmead can agree terms separate to the terms set out 
in Mr Cs contract of insurance with Fairmead as the previous ombudsman decided they 
can. I am looking at the complaint Mr C made to Fairmead following the previous 
ombudsmans decision in August 2021 and before he brought this complaint to us in 
mid-October 2021 following Fairmeads response. 
In my provisional decision I said Fairmead should consider if any changes are required to 
their standard terms and conditions relating to costs so that they dont conflict with the policy 
terms. Mr Cs concerned that gives Fairmead too much leeway. But he hasnt demonstrated 
hes suffered any loss. So, on reflection, I wont require Fairmead to consider or make 
changes. If, in the future, Mr C could show hes been disadvantaged by any terms Fairmead 
agreed with the solicitors, hed be able to raise a fresh complaint. 
Mr C raised other concerns after bringing his complaint to us. He said clause 1.4 of the 
standard terms and conditions added to the policy requirements for his claim to have 
prospects of success and could lead to claims being rejected. The wording about 
prospects of success is more detailed than in the policy, but its not out of line with what 
wed consider to be fair. 
Mr C was also unhappy with the requirement for the standard terms and conditions to 
be kept confidential and information to be destroyed once the agreement ended under 
clauses 1.10 and 3.14. 
Fairmead provided an explanation in response to Mr Cs concerns. Id encourage them 
to bear these points and the whole of the standard terms and conditions in mind when 
considering any changes.
Finally, to be clear, the changes Fairmead would need to consider would be to the standard 
terms and conditions they seek to agree with the solicitors, not the policy as they mentioned 
in their response to my provisional decision. 
Hourly ratesMr C said I hadnt considered his proposal that the solicitors hourly rates should be agreed 
at £226 plus VAT. I understood Mr C was happy to compromise on the basis Fairmead 
would pay £216 plus VAT and hed fund the balance. Even if thats not the case, Ive 
explained why I think Fairmeads offer to pay £216 plus VAT is fair and I see no reason to 
change my mind about that.
Time for payment of the solicitors fees
Mr C argues the policy didnt make clear that Fairmead wouldnt make interim payments or 
that repayment of the solicitors costs would only be made at the end of the claim. He says it 
was reasonable to think, from the policy wording, theyd be paid when they fell due. 
The policy makes no mention of when costs will be paid. And theres no requirement for 
Fairmead to make interim payments. Im not aware Mr Cs unable to pay his solicitors fees. 
So, Ive no reason to think hes unable to instruct them or that his choice of solicitor is 
restricted. And an arrangement under which costs are paid at the end of the case doesnt 
unfairly restrict his entitlement to legal expenses cover up to £50,000, subject to the other 
terms and conditions of the policy, as hes suggested.
I still think Fairmead has made a fair offer to accept interim bills for disbursements on a 
quarterly basis. That means the solicitors or Mr C wont need to fund them. 
Distress and inconvenience
I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling that Fairmead have tried to pressurise him into 
agreeing the terms and conditions. Im not persuaded theyve been deliberately intimidating, 
although I can understand Mr Cs felt under pressure. Fairmead failed to fully understand   
Mr Cs concerns about the effect of the terms and conditions or their compatibility with the 
policy. And I think they ought to have appreciated sooner his concerns that it wasnt 
appropriate for them simply to impose on Mr Cs solicitors terms and conditions designed to 
manage panel solicitors working under a CFA. I agree Fairmeads approach has delayed   
Mr Cs legal claim from progressing. Looking at whats happened since August last year, I 
still think £250 is fair compensation.
Putting things right
Bearing the above in mind, Ive thought more about how Fairmead should put things right.
I wont direct Fairmead to review or make changes to their standard terms and conditions. 
But Id encourage them to look at all the standard terms and conditions to check they are 
compatible overall with the policy to avoid any further disputes and delays to Mr Cs claim. 
And Id also encourage them to let Mr C know, within the time Mr C has to accept this 
decision, if they intend to make any changes, so he knows how things stand.
To conclude Mr Cs complaint, Fairmead should pay compensation of £250 within 14 days of 
Mr C accepting my decision if he chooses to do so.
My final decision
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, inclusive of the £150 theyve already offered him, within 14 days of Mr C 
accepting this decision should he choose to do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman