DRN-4413313
The complaint
Ms G and Mr S have complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited have 
unfairly required them to pay 50% of the other drivers claim under their motor policy 
following an accident. 
Ms G and Mr S have a representative. However, in order to keep things simple, I shall just 
refer to Ms G and Mr S throughout. 
What happened
Ms G a named driver on Mr S policy was driving and was involved in an accident with 
another driver on 28 January 2022. The other driver contacted Watford to explain the vehicle 
Ms G was driving had been in a collision with his vehicle. Watford said it tried to make 
contact with Ms G and Mr S, without success. So, it wrote to them advising of the accident. 
Ms G and Mr S then responded on 15 February 2022 confirming Ms G had been involved in 
this accident. 
On investigation, it transpired Mr S wasnt the registered keeper of the car. In the application 
for the policy Mr S said he was the registered keeper. On this basis Watford decided Mr S 
had made a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012. It decided this misrepresentation made by Mr S was reckless 
and made not caring if it was true or otherwise. 
That meant Watford was not providing indemnity to Ms G and Mr S for this accident. 
However, under road traffic legislation Watford is duty bound to respond to the claim from 
the other driver. It was decided between Watford and the other drivers insurers that the best 
outcome was that this other drivers claim should be settled on a 50/50 basis. 
Under the terms of the policy with Mr S and Ms G, Watford are entitled to have Mr S and Ms 
G refund Watfords outlay to the other drivers insurer for the other drivers claim. That other 
drivers claim was a total of £2,859.00 and Watford said Mr S and Ms G were responsible for 
50% of that, namely the sum of £1,474.08. 
Ms G and Mr S said this was excessive and they had a quote from the other driver saying 
the repair cost would only be £879.60. Watford said the other drivers insurers provided 
evidence of the repair costs plus car hire costs which came to the total claimed. 
Ms G and Mr S have specifically confirmed they are not complaining about Watfords lack of 
indemnity to them, and simply complaining about the extent of the refund Watford is 
expecting them to pay. 
Ms G and Mr S continued to disagree this was fair and brought their complaint to us. The 
investigator was of the view Watford hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ms G and Mr S disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
I appreciate and understand Ms G and Mr S will be disappointed. However, my role is to 
assess whether Watford adhered to its policy terms with Ms G and Mr S. Watford is also 
under a legal duty to deal with the other drivers claim against Ms G and Mr S policy. 
Also, for the avoidance of any doubt, I am not considering the merits of whether Watford was 
correct or not in refusing to indemnify Ms G and Mr S. Ms G and Mr S were very specific in 
their correspondence with the investigator, that their complaint was not about Watfords 
decision to refuse indemnity, but solely about the amount of the other drivers claim, given 
the initial quote given by the other driver to Ms G and Mr S for the repair costs of his car.
 
So, Watford received the formal Audatex report detailing the damage on the other drivers 
car which stated the car wasnt driveable. That report also detailed the costs payable for the 
repair. Plus, it received the invoices for the car hire. Its clear to me that these costs were 
verified coherently given the manner of their presentation to Watford from the other drivers 
insurers. 
Both Watford and the other drivers insurers decided that it was most likely each driver was 
50% to blame for causing the accident, given the lack of independent witnesses. That means 
the other drivers insurers pay 50% of the other drivers costs and Watford pays the other 
50%. This is because there is no indemnity given by Watford for any claim Ms G and Mr S 
might have had. For the avoidance of further doubt, it does appear Ms G and Mr S didnt 
have any claim to make in any event, or at least there is no mention of that. 
I consider this split liability agreement between Watford and the other drivers insurers is 
eminently sensible here, given it avoids the added costs of any court proceedings which 
would increase the contribution payable by Ms G and Mr S. Further given its a 50/50 split on 
liability, that further reduces the extent of Ms G and Mr S refund costs. 
As no indemnity is given by Watford to Ms G or Mr S given the issues over the information 
given in applying for the policy, this is therefore down to Ms G and Mr S to pay.
 
This is because of the policy terms which are similar to every other motor policy for these 
circumstances. So, these are not unusual terms or indeed just particular to Watfords policy. 
Every motor policy has policy terms concerning these same issues. 
The specific policy terms of Watfords policy say the following:
We, as Your Insurer, can:
 take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim; and
 take legal action over any claim.
These actions may be taken in Your name or the name of any insured person. 
Failure to notify any required changes and to take reasonable care to ensure that any 
information supplied is provided honestly, fully and correctly may result in Your Policy 
being cancelled or treated as if it never existed, or in Your claim being rejected or not 
fully paid.

3. Right of recoveryIf under the laws of any country in which this insurance applies, We have to make 
payments which but for those laws would not be covered by this Policy, You must 
repay the amounts to Us. If any claims or other monies are paid to You by mistake 
for any reason, or a claim has been paid which We later find to be fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated. You must repay the amount paid by Us.
You or the person who caused the accident must also repay Us any money We have 
to pay because of any agreement We have with the Motor Insurers Bureau.
Any payment We make under this condition will prejudice Your No Claim Bonus and 
will also mean that there will be no entitlement to a refund of premium if the Policy is 
cancelled or declared void.
This essentially means that Watford is entitled to deal with any claim against Ms G and Mr 
Ss policy as it sees fit. More so given its under a legal duty to do so due to the road traffic 
legislation. 
This service has no authority to question the costs of the claim more so when those costs 
concern those of another drivers insurers. The costs were backed by appropriate pricing 
data plus car hire charges on legitimate invoices. Watfords only recourse to show they were 
unreasonable would be to let a court decide the extent of these costs of repair and car hire. 
That in turn would increase Ms G and Mr S outlay considerably which I dont consider would 
be the reasonable course of action for Watford to take here. Watfords policy terms do permit 
it to take over the settlement of any claim. And here, I consider it has done so reasonably 
and fairly for Ms G and Mr S, given the lack of indemnity available to them. 
Also, I can see that the other driver appeared to provide a quote to Ms G and Mr S for the 
repair of his car in the sum of £879.60. But there is no evidence before me showing Mr S 
had decided to deal with the other driver himself or seek to pay this quote. It does appear 
that when the other driver informed his insurers of the accident as he was required to do, 
that his insurers then took over the settlement of his claim, presumably under the same type 
of policy conditions in his policy which Ive explained exist in Watfords policy. Insurers are 
entitled to take over and settle any claims as I explained above. This is standard industry 
practice. 
In conclusion, I do consider Watford has acted reasonably in agreeing the 50/50 liability split 
and agreeing the claim amount. That in turn does lessen Ms G and Mr S exposure for even 
higher costs to be refunded, given the lack of indemnity by Watford to Mr S and Ms G. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman