DRN-2225087
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that she was left without heating because British Gas Services Limited 
(BG) failed to diagnose the problem with her boiler.
 
What happened
Ms M had a five year warranty for her boiler, which BG installed. She told BG her boiler 
wasnt working, and it tried to repair her boiler on six different visits without success. 
Because of this, Ms M didnt have any heating or hot water for three winter months.
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After each visit, BG said the boiler was working, only for Ms M to report a fault again. 
The issue of the leak was only considered after six visits and Ms M had paid a private 
engineer £200. While I realise the cause of a fault is not always obvious, it wouldve 
been reasonable for BG to consider the possibility that the boiler wasnt the cause.
Although the problem was due to a leak, which wasnt covered under the warranty, 
its reasonable to think that BG shouldve identified that as a possible cause without 
Ms M having to suggest it. Had it done so, Ms M mightve been able to minimise the 
time she spent without heating and hot water.
Ms M was without heating and hot water for three winter months, leading to her using 
alternative heating methods and an increase in bills. Given that BG had only recently 
installed the boiler, I can understand why Ms M was upset that it didnt seem to be 
working properly and its engineers werent identifying the fault.
Putting things right
BG paid £100 by way of apology for the service shortfalls. Under the circumstances, I think 
that £200 is a fair sum for the upset and inconvenience caused, and for the time without 
heating and hot water. So, BG should pay Ms M a further £100 to address this.
I also think its reasonable that BG pays £200 to Ms M to cover the cost of using a private 
engineer to identify the leak, because the delay in resolving the matter was due, in part, to 
BGs failure to identify the cause of the fault.
My final decision
For these reasons my decision is to uphold Ms Ms complaint and British Gas Services 
Limited must:
pay Ms M a further £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience, and
pay £200 to reimburse some of the cost incurred by Ms M in using a private 
engineer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman