DRN-1979768
 
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Openwork Ltd mis-sold insurance protection policies to her.  
What happened
Ms M began the process of purchasing her first house in early 2018. She approached 
Openwork with a view to it arranging a mortgage, household insurance and suitable 
protection policies for her. The protection policies are the subject of this complaint. 
Two policies  life assurance and income protection  were recommended and applications 
for these policies were made by the Openwork broker in January 2018. The insurer 
increased the cost of the income protection policy soon after the policy applications were 
submitted and this meant the combined cost of the policies exceeded Ms Ms budget. 
Ms M then applied directly to the same insurer for a life assurance policy. The policy wasnt 
put in place prior to the completion date of the property purchase in April 2018, as Ms M 
needed further medical tests before the insurer would provide her with a policy. 
Ms M contacted the broker on 12 April 2018 about taking out another policy. He 
recommended an accidental death policy, which Ms M bought.  The life assurance and 
income protection policies that had been recommended to Ms M in January 2018 were 
cancelled by Ms M on 19 April 2018. This meant the only policy Ms M had in place was the 
accidental death policy. 
Ms M was, unfortunately, diagnosed with cancer in 2019. She approached the broker who 
confirmed her policy didnt provide cover for anything other than accidental death and a daily 
payment for hospital stays.
Ms M was unhappy with what shed been told and complained to this service. She said she 
still didnt have life cover in place two days before the completion of her house purchase in 
April 2018, which is why she contacted the broker on 12 April 2018. She said she told the 
broker the two policies arranged in January 2018 were too expensive and she wouldnt be 
going ahead with them. And that she told the broker her priority was to have her mortgage 
paid off in the event of her death so that her children would be secure, so she asked him to 
provide life cover only. Ms M also said she wasnt told she could have separated the two 
policies she was quoted for in January 2018 and so could have just taken out the life 
assurance policy. 
Ms M said when she was diagnosed with lung cancer, she contacted the broker and was told 
she had an accidental death policy rather than a life assurance policy. She said it wasnt until 
then that she received policy documents in relation to the accidental death cover and so she 
hadnt received any information about what was covered by the policy. She said she had 
only received a short email from the broker, immediately after the policy was set up, saying 
that the policy was in place. 
Our investigator contacted Openwork who said the policies recommended to Ms M were life 
assurance, income protection and critical illness. It said Ms M didnt opt for critical illness 
cover because of her budget. And that the insurer carried out a telephone medical interview 
with Ms M and her income protection premiums were increased. The broker said the only 
cover remaining in place at the time of Ms Ms diagnosis was the accidental death cover. 
The broker who advised Ms M provided the following comments: 
He provided Ms M with copies of the suitability reports and policy illustrations 
following any discussions they had.
He was contacted by Ms M on 12 April to look at an accidental death policy they had 
discussed during previous conversations. He said she asked him to set up three units 
of cover under that policy. He set this up the following day. 
He said the life assurance and income protection policies were put on risk by him on 
around 20 April, the day Ms M completed her property purchase. 
He was contacted by Ms M on 1 May 2018. She told him shed cancelled the life 
assurance and income protection policies and asked whether she would get a refund 
of premiums taken in error. The broker said he queried why she cancelled the cover, 
then called the insurer on Ms Ms behalf about the premiums. 
He said Ms M knew the breakdown of the cost of the life assurance and income 
protection policies and could have requested just life cover, or just income protection. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the information from Openwork shows 
the broker recommended life assurance and income protection in January 2018 to protect 
the mortgage Ms M was about to take out. And at the time these policies met Ms Ms needs. 
She said when Ms M contacted the broker on 12 April 2018 to take out a third policy, the 
accidental death cover, the purpose of this policy was to provide family protection. This 
policy was placed on risk on 13 April 2018. The house purchase was completed on 20 April 
2018 and the two policies life assurance and income protection policies were put on risk on 
19 and 20 April 2018. 
Our investigator also said the broker sent an email to Ms M the day after their discussion to 
confirm the accidental death policy had been set up. Our investigator said she appreciates 
Ms M may have misunderstood the policy name. However, she was satisfied policy 
documents were sent to Ms M that made it clear the accidental death policy did not provide 
mortgage protection. Our investigator was satisfied that on 20 April 2018 Ms M had three 
policies at one time and that she was aware of this. Our investigator said Ms M was also 
aware that the life assurance and income protection policies were cancelled sometime 
before 25 April 2018. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators assessment and said her total insurance budget, 
including household insurance, was £100. And so this left around £65 for protection policies. 
She said she didnt proceed with the life assurance and income protection policies because 
she thought she had to accept either both or none. Ms M said if the broker had explained to 
her that she could have accepted the Life Insurance policy only, this situation would not have 
happened.
Ms M said her protection objectives were to pay off her mortgage in the event of her death to 
protect her childrens future. She said she didnt ask for income protection and could not 
afford it as it was beyond her budget and she also had income-based workplace benefits.
Ms M said when she telephoned the broker on 12 April, she told him she could not afford the 
policies hed arranged. She said if the broker thought she should have accidental death 
cover instead of life assurance, he should have advised her of the change. Ms M said the 
broker was fully aware she didnt have another life assurance policy.
As a result, this complaint has come to me to review. 
I contacted the insurer and was provided with further information about the contact Ms M 
and the Openwork broker had with it. I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2020. I said I intended to come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and not uphold the complaint, but I relied on information that 
hadnt been available to the investigator. I gave both parties until 18 June 2020 to respond 
with any further comments. 
Openwork responded and said it was unaware that Ms M had approached the insurer 
directly regarding taking out a policy. It said it had nothing further to add. 
Ms M responded and said her budget of £80 - £100 was to cover both decreasing life 
insurance and household insurance. Ms M said she did not request a policy that covered her 
income and said she told the broker she could not afford this and didnt need it because her 
job provided a degree of security. Ms M said the broker did not provide what was requested 
and what was affordable. So Ms M said she approached the insurer directly to sort the 
situation out herself. Ms M said she was told by the insurer that it wouldnt be able to provide 
cover in time for completion of her property purchase, as it required further information. Ms 
M said she did not intend to go back to the insurer, unless the broker was unable to provide 
life cover. 
Ms M also said the conversation she had with the broker didnt happen on his mobile phone, 
as has been suggested, and its unfortunate that the broker hasnt provided a call recording 
of the conversation. Ms M said, unknown to her, the policy provided by the broker offered 
less cover than she originally requested, but at the same cost. She said the broker didnt 
explain he was providing a very different policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of all the arguments and comments made, Ive limited my response to the issues 
I consider to be central to this complaint.
When a broker provides advice to a consumer, its usual for the broker to complete a number 
of documents to show theyve looked at the consumers wants and needs. In this case I can 
see the broker sent Ms M a summary of his advice and recommendations after their meeting 
in January 2018. The needs identified were for Ms Ms mortgage to be paid off in the event 
of her death and for her income to be protected in the event of long-term sickness. 
The broker also wrote to Ms M in April 2018, when the accidental death policy was taken 
out. On that occasion, Ms Ms needs were identified as providing a lump sum in the event of 
an accident. An advice fact find, prepared at the same time, indicated that protecting Ms Ms 
mortgage was not an objective. 
Given the information in these documents, Im satisfied the broker provided policies that 
were in line with the needs and objectives identified when he and Ms M spoke. At the time 
they were taken out, the life assurance and income protection policies were also in line with 
Ms Ms budget, although Im aware that changed when the cost of the income protection 
policy increased following underwriting. 
When Ms M responded to the provisional decision, she said the policies were not in line with 
her budget, as she said her budget needed to cover not just protection policies, but also 
household insurance. But from the documentation Ive seen, and I need to rely on the 
documentation in this instance, Im satisfied the original quotes provided were in line with Ms 
Ms budget.  Ms M says her objective of having her mortgage paid off in the event of her death didnt 
change between the meeting in January 2018 and the meeting in April 2018. She says she 
asked for a life assurance policy when she met with the broker in April and so shouldnt have 
been sold the accidental death policy. 
Ms M and the brokers recollections of what happened when the accidental death policy was 
sold to her in mid-April 2018 differ. Ms M said she told the broker she cancelled the two 
policies arranged in January 2018, as they were now significantly over her budget. She said 
she was about to complete the purchase of her home and wanted to ensure she had life 
cover in place. The broker said the accidental death policy was taken out in addition to the 
policies arranged in January 2018 and was a policy he had discussed with Ms M during 
earlier meetings. 
I wasnt party to any of the conversations between Ms M and the broker. And so I have to 
look at all of the evidence provided and decide whats most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities. Ive looked at all of the information provided by Ms M, the broker 
and the insurer and Ive outlined what I think is most likely to have happened when Ms M 
was sold the accidental death policy.
The life assurance and income protection policies arranged in January 2018 became 
unaffordable for Ms M following underwriting. This was because the cost of the income 
protection policy increased following a medical telephone interview between Ms M and the 
insurer. The insurer said Ms M then made an application to it directly, so without the 
involvement of the broker, for a life assurance policy.
The insurer considered Ms Ms new application and refused to provide life cover until Ms M 
had an MRI scan. This was communicated to Ms M by the insurer on 9 April 2018 by letter. 
Ms M then contacted the insurer by phone on 12 April 2018 to discuss the new policy. She 
advised it that the MRI scan had been arranged, but it would be a while before the results 
were known. Ms M told the insurer the policy was linked to a mortgage and she hoped to 
have the policy in place before the purchase of her property was completed. However, the 
insurer told Ms M that it wouldnt make a decision about the policy until the MRI results were 
known. It recommended she speak to her financial advisor to discuss the best way forward. 
Ms M contacted the broker on the same day and an application for the accidental death 
policy was sent by the broker the following day. It was not linked to Ms Ms mortgage and so 
began the same day. Ms M contacted the insurer by phone on 19 April 2018 and cancelled 
the life assurance and income protection policies that had been arranged by the broker in 
January 2018. 
The insurer confirmed that the broker also contacted it on 19 April 2018, the day before Ms 
Ms house purchase completed, and put both of the policies arranged in January 2018 on 
risk. This meant they would have been in place, if they hadnt been cancelled, once the 
purchase completed the following day. 
My role is to look at whether the broker did anything wrong when he sold the various 
protection policies to Ms M. Ms M is, unfortunately, terminally ill and she is in a position 
where the third policy doesnt provide cover for anything other than accidental death. Shes 
clearly in a very difficult situation and I have a great deal of sympathy for her and her family. 
But I could only uphold this complaint if I thought the broker did something wrong and Im 
satisfied he didnt.
As I said earlier, Im satisfied the documents completed by the broker show that he provided 
policies that were in line with the needs and objectives identified when he and Ms M spoke. And Im satisfied Ms M was sent copies of these documents. Im also satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, that when the broker recommended the accidental death policy, he 
believed the life assurance and income protection policies would remain in place and he was 
selling Ms M a third policy. 
I know that Ms M believes she cancelled the life assurance and income protection policies 
on 12 April, so the day she contacted the broker about setting up another policy. I 
understand that recollections of exactly when phone calls were made can fade over time and 
Im satisfied the policies werent cancelled on that date. The insurer has provided information 
that shows they were in place until 19 April, when Ms M rang the insurer to cancel them. 
When Ms M responded to the provisional decision, she said she did not intend to go back to 
the insurer about the life assurance policy she had applied for directly with it, unless the 
broker was unable to provide life cover. Having listened to the phone call made by Ms M to 
the insurer on 19 April, so a week after the accidental death policy was taken out and on the 
day she cancelled the other two policies, Im satisfied that Ms M was still in the process of 
making arrangements with the insurer about taking out a life assurance policy. 
The insurer said the broker contacted it on 19 April and put the life assurance and income 
protection policies on risk. He did this to ensure Ms M would be covered by the policies 
when her house purchase completed the following day. I dont think the broker would have 
contacted the insurer and done this unless he thought the policies were to remain in place. 
So Im satisfied that when he sold Ms M the accidental death policy on 12 April, the broker 
believed he was selling her a third policy, one that they had discussed at an earlier meeting, 
and not the only policy she would have in place when her house purchase completed. Im 
satisfied the broker thought a suitable life assurance policy was already in place when he 
sold the accidental death policy to Ms M.
Ms M also said she hadnt been sent enough information from the broker for her to 
understand shed been sold an accidental death policy rather than a life assurance policy. 
She said she received only an email and this provided very little specific information. 
Ive seen the email and I think if it had been the only piece of information sent by the broker 
then it wouldnt have been enough for Ms M to be well informed about what policy shed 
taken out. But Im satisfied this wasnt the only information the broker sent to Ms M about the 
policy. A letter was also sent on 13 April 2018, where the objective was listed as provide a 
lump sum in the event of accident. The letter also refers to the product as a multiprotect 
policy and an explanation of this is provided in the notes on protection products section of 
the letter. And this explanation makes it clear this is not a life assurance policy, but an 
accidental death policy. 
So Im satisfied that the broker provided more than the email message to explain the type of 
policy that had been purchased. And Im satisfied it was clear this policy provided cover in 
the event of an accident. I appreciate that Ms M might not have received this letter, but the 
broker sent it to the correct address and it wouldnt be fair to hold him responsible for what 
happens to letters once he posts them.  
Ms M also said she wasnt told by the broker that the life assurance and income protection 
policies applied for in January 2018 were two separate policies. She thought she had to 
accept both of them or neither of them. Ms M said if the broker had told her they were 
separate policies she would have taken out just the life assurance policy. I can see that the 
insurer wrote to Ms M in January 2018 confirming it would offer the life assurance policy and 
the letter didnt include any information about the income protection policy. So I think this 
shows the life assurance policy was being offered separately to the income protection policy. I also havent seen anything to suggest Ms M asked the broker whether she could accept 
just the life assurance policy. And, for me to uphold this part of the complaint, I would need 
to be satisfied that Ms M asked him this and was provided with incorrect information. And Im 
satisfied that this isnt the case. 
Ms M also said she didnt receive policy documents in relation to the accidental death policy. 
I can see the provider of this policy has confirmed these were sent and its the responsibility 
of the provider, rather than the broker, to send these to her. So I make no findings about the 
policy documents
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman