DRN-3919395
The complaint
W (a limited company) complains that Howden Insurance Brokers Limited failed to notify its 
insurer of a claim it was making on a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
What happened
W held a directors and officers liability insurance policy (D&O policy) with an insurer, A. The 
policy was arranged by Howden. 
In February 2020, a letter was sent by representatives of another business, B, to Ms A. This 
alleged Ms A, W and others connected to W had breached confidentiality arising from a 
business relationship. The details of that allegation arent relevant to my decision.
In August 2020, B initiated legal proceedings against Ms A and W (among others). W 
contacted Howden so that a claim could be made. W held two policies which could provide 
cover for costs incurred in relation to these proceedings, the D&O policy with A and separate 
legal expenses insurance cover, provided by another insurer, M. Howden contacted M, but 
not A.
In November 2020, W renewed the D&O policy with A through Howden. In 2021, it was 
established that Howden hadnt notified A in August 2020, and so the claim was made.
A rejected cover for the claim. It said a condition of the policy which the claim had been 
made under required that any claim was made for a matter arising during the period of 
insurance. The period of insurance started in November 2020, and at that time the legal 
proceedings against Ms A and W had already started. A was also unwilling to continue 
insuring W when the policy was due to be renewed in November 2021, as it said the legal 
claim against W hadnt been disclosed when the policy was renewed in November 2020.
W complained to Howden and then our service. It said Howdens failure to notify A of the 
claim in August 2020 had been the reason cover was declined, so Howden should cover its 
costs which would otherwise have been paid by A. 
Our investigator agreed Howden should have notified A in August 2020, but that the delay 
hadnt been the reason for cover being declined. She did agree that because of the poor 
service, Howden should pay £500 compensation.
W didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt any dispute that Howden should have notified A of the claim in August 2020, 
when it was contacted by W. While Howden notified M, the D&O policy was separate and 
had a different notification process. I need to establish the effect of this delay.
A has declined cover for Ws claim, which was submitted in 2021. As a result, I could 
conclude Howden should be liable for all, or some, of the costs which would have been met 
by the D&O policy if it had notified A of the claim in August 2020. In order to do so, I need to 
be satisfied that a claim notified in August 2020 would have been successful.
W has made a separate complaint about As decision to decline cover for the claim. Ive 
issued a corresponding decision in response to that complaint. In summary, I said that A 
acted reasonably when it declined cover for the claim. I also thought A had reasonably 
concluded that no cover would have been available even if it had been notified in August 
2020. 
A outlined a number of reasons why it considers the policy wouldnt provide cover for a claim 
made in August 2020. The most persuasive of these, Im satisfied, is that the policy terms 
and conditions require A to be notified as soon as possible after matters which could give 
rise to a claim occur. 
Ms A was sent a letter in February 2020, addressed to her and naming W at multiple points. 
The letter said B would take formal action if Ms A and W didnt agree to undertakings about 
their future conduct. Between that letter and August 2020, there were negotiations and 
discussions, which Ms A (and by extension W) was a party to, including a settlement offer. 
That was rejected and when B initiated formal legal proceedings, W contacted Howden.
A says that in entering into these discussions, and not notifying it of these matters, W 
breached the policy conditions. Im satisfied this is a reasonable position. As A wasnt aware 
of the potential claim, it was unable to advise on possible settlement options or negotiations. 
I think its fair to say that by not notifying A, as it was required to do, W prejudiced As 
position. A can persuasively say that it was exposed to the possibility of increased costs and 
liability because it wasnt notified in February 2020.
Im also aware that W sent an email to an address listed in policy documents issued by 
Howden. That email address isnt listed in As policy documents, which set out the claims 
process and terms and conditions, and which W doesnt dispute it had been provided. In any 
case, such an email wasnt sent until August 2020, so even though it wasnt sent to A, even 
if it had been, it wouldnt have impacted on the decision regarding cover. Even though a 
different email address was included in the Howden policy documents, this hasnt affected 
the decision regarding cover.
As the claim wouldnt have been successful even if notified in August 2020, I cant say 
Howden should be responsible for any losses incurred by W. The failure to notify A didnt 
have a detrimental effect on Ws ability to secure cover for their claim.
Thats not to say there werent effects on W because of the failure to notify A in August 2020. 
The policy expired in November 2021, but A declined to offer renewal. It said because W 
hadnt disclosed the matters relating to the claim when the policy was renewed in November 
2020, it was no longer willing to offer insurance to W.
If Howden had correctly notified A of the claim in August 2020, or even when the policy was 
renewed in November 2020, then it seems to be accepted that A wouldnt have refused 
renewal for non-disclosure of the claim  it would already have been aware. It may have 
been that A wouldnt have offered cover, or the premium would have been significantly 
higher, due to the existing claim, but Ive nothing to indicate this one way or the other. Im not 
satisfied I can say that any increased premiums paid by W for ongoing cover is because of 
any failure on the part of Howden. W hasnt provided anything to show this has happened.
Im satisfied that W has been inconvenienced by Howden failing to notify A of the claim when it should have. Its gone through a period where it believed A was dealing with the claim, 
only to be informed that this wasnt the case, and the claim has then been declined. Its also 
been informed that A wouldnt offer renewal of the policy, requiring it to find alternative cover.
On that basis, I think the £500 compensation our investigator believed Howden should pay is 
fair. A fairly significant inconvenience has been caused to W, causing a considerable impact. 
What I cant do is ask Howden to cover the actual, or potential, financial losses which arise 
because A declined cover for the claim. I cant say its error in failing to notify the claim was 
the direct cause of such losses.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Howden 
Insurance Brokers Limited must pay W £500 compensation. 
Howden must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it W accepts our decision. If it 
doesnt, then it must pay simple interest on this amount at a rate of 8% from that date to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman