DRN-2837192
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly cancelled his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and I have attached a copy of 
it to this final decision. In it, I explained why I intended to require Tesco to pay Mr B the 
difference between the price of his Tesco insurance policy and his replacement policy, to 
record that the cancellation took place in error and to pay Mr B £100 in compensation for his 
time and trouble.
I asked both Tesco and Mr B if they had any further evidence or information they would like 
me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepts the provisional decision, however Tesco disagrees with it for the following 
reasons.
Firstly, Tesco highlights the fact that the provisional decision incorrectly states that Tescos 
original request for no claims discount evidence doesnt mention cancellation, however 
Tesco accepts that the letter didnt give a date for cancellation at that stage. 
I concur with Tesco, as the final paragraph of the letter (Letter 1) states; It is very important 
that you send this information to us. If we do not receive this your cover may be cancelled or 
the price may increase and the provisional decision was incorrect in this respect.
This does not alter the underlying principle however that the original request for no claims 
discount evidence (Letter 1) gives no time-scale for providing it. The fact remains that Letter 
1 doesnt state that the clock is ticking and doesnt provide a deadline by which Mr B had to 
produce proof to avoid the policy being cancelled. I remain satisfied that it doesnt
constitute a reminder therefore.
Secondly, Tesco states that when staff refer to Mr Bs preferred delivery method as email, 
they are referring to receiving an email to remind Mr B he has documents to view/download 
on the portal. Tesco also states that Mr B would be familiar with the portal as its what he 
agreed to when setting the policy up and that he registered for this. Its how he received and 
viewed his Certificate of Insurance.
Its accepted that Mr B may have viewed his Certificate on the portal. This doesnt change 
the fact however that Tescos response to Mr Bs original complaint confirmed that; Upon
purchasing you chose your preferred method of contact as email and we made you aware all
correspondence would be uploaded to our secure channel. It would be straining the 
meaning of this sentence to conclude that Tesco staff understood Mr Bs preferred delivery 
method to be via the portal.
This is supported by the fact that this was the method of communication used by Tesco for 
most key communications with Mr B. It also accords with Mr Bs recollection. My conclusion 
is that e-mail was Mr Bs preferred method of communication.
Thirdly, Tesco doesnt agree that it didnt follow its policy terms in its cancellation notice. It 
says that it sent its final reminder via post and digitally on 24 July 2020. It says that 31 July is 
seven days after this date. It also says that it didnt cancel the policy until 3 August and that 
Mr B was given ten days notice.
I have set out in the provisional decision that on the on the balance of probabilities, the letter 
of 24 July (Letter 2) didnt arrive at Mr Bs address and it wasnt uploaded onto the portal. I 
remain satisfied that what Tesco considered to be its final reminder didnt trigger seven 
days notice of cancellation. I have also explained why the e-mail of 27 July (Letter 3) didnt 
constitute a valid cancellation.
Fourthly, Tesco states that it cant agree that it doesnt remind its customers about the need 
for proof of no claims discount. Tesco further states that this is explained prior to taking out 
the policy, within the inception documents, via a reminder e-mail, via a letter by post and 
finally by e-mail to ask customers to view the document digitally. 
This is no doubt the case in usual circumstances. On the particular facts of this case 
however, reminders werent received by Mr B. Ive explained that I dont consider that Letter 
1 can be construed as being a reminder. Ive concluded that Letter 2 wasnt received and if 
Letter 3 purported to be the cancellation notice, it couldnt have constituted a reminder.
Fifthly, Tesco state that; the argument of the customer expecting to receive emails only isnt 
something we can accept. Firstly, as they will have received their inception documents
asking them to download or view via the online portal. Secondly, the email in which we say 
documents are to be viewed via the portal are clear. I dont think its fair to Tesco Bank to 
say that we email customers with an instruction to view an online portal which theyve 
registered for isnt clear or corresponding with customer expectations.
The difficulty Tesco has in this respect is that its own terms and conditions state; we can 
cancel this policy, for a valid reason or on serious grounds, by sending you seven days 
notice of cancellation by your preferred delivery method and also by post, to your last known 
address. Ive reached a conclusion that e-mail was Mr Bs preferred delivery method and in 
this case seven days notice of cancellation wasnt sent by this preferred delivery method.
Finally, Tesco states that Mr B took out a policy with Tesco knowing that it could ask for 
proof of no claims discount. It says that shortly after, it let him know that it did need to see 
such proof. Tesco then repeats the various communications it said it engaged in before
cancelling his policy almost a month later. It also points out that this process isnt something 
that is individual for Mr B and is the same chase process for all customers.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think the evidence supports Tescos 
submissions that it has complied with the requirements of the terms and conditions of its own 
policy.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above and also the reasons given in the provisional decision, (apart 
from the correction to recognise that Letter 1 did indeed mention cancellation), I uphold Mr 
Bs complaint.
To put things right, I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do the following;-
- Pay Mr B the difference between the cost of his Tesco insurance policy and the amount he
had to pay his new insurer, within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision and 
provision of proof of the cost of his replacement policy*.
- Record on its systems the fact that Mr Bs policy was cancelled by Tesco in error and issue
a letter to Mr B which he may share with his current and future insurers to confirm that his
policy with Tesco was cancelled in error.
- Pay compensation to Mr B in the sum of £100 for the extra time, trouble and
inconvenience caused to Mr B, again within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final
Decision*.
*If Tesco pays later than this date, it must also pay interest on the difference in price and
compensation amounts to the date of payment at 8% a year simple interest. If it considers
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
Claire Jones
Ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Ill look at any more comments 
and evidence that I get by 26 May 2021. Unless the information changes my mind however, 
my final decision is likely to be along the following
lines.
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly cancelled his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with Tesco in early July 2020. In early August 2020,
Mr B received communication from Tesco (Letter 4) informing him that the policy had been
cancelled and stating that Mr B was uninsured.
Tesco cancelled the Policy because it had not received proof of No Claims Discount (NCD)
from Mr B. Mr B says that he had been in the process of uploading the NCD to the Tescos
shared documents portal when the cancellation communication arrived.
Tesco say that they sent an initial letter in mid-July 2020 (Letter 1). They also sent a letter
towards the end of July 2020 (Letter 2) by post and via the portal which comprised of a
Cancellation Notice stating that if the NCD information wasnt sent within seven days, Tesco
would cancel Mr Bs cover in early August 2020. Mr B says he didnt receive this letter and
doesnt believe that it exists. Tesco then say that they sent a final reminder at the end of July
2020 (Letter 3).
Mr B says that, save for the initial email in mid-July 2020 (Letter 1) and the letter at the end
of July (Letter 3) which was headed; "Important: You must send us Proof of No Claims
Discount or your cover will be cancelled", he had received no notice that this action would be
taken. He believes that there has been a failure by Tesco to provide adequate notice that the
policy would be cancelled.
Mr B also considers that Tesco failed to communicate with him by the method he had
chosen when he first took out the insurance, or indeed to communicate adequately at all. He
is also disappointed by the insurers response to his complaint and the failure to properly
investigate and respond to the issues he raised.
He has now complained to our service and our investigator has looked at the evidence. The
investigator did consider that Mr B had raised valid points in his complaint letter but
concluded that Tesco had met its obligations under the terms of the policy by giving seven
days notice of cancellation. He concluded that he wouldnt be asking Tesco to do anything
differently.
With regard to the Cancellation Notice (Letter 2), the investigator said: Tesco have provided
me with evidence which shows that it was sent and addressed correctly. Its unfortunate if
you didnt receive this but Tesco cant be held responsible for post not reaching the end
destination.
He also noted that a duplicate of the Cancellation Notice (Letter 2) was placed on the online
portal and that: Tesco have said you told them your communication preference was the
online portal. You dont believe thats the case. Unfortunately, I dont have evidence for this
point from either party so I cant say for sure.
As to the e-mail sent by Tesco at the end of July 2020 (Letter 3), he said; Although the
email doesnt give a date, I cant say that you werent aware your policy was going to be
cancelled. I would expect that this email wouldve given you cause to contact Tesco to query
this, or to provide the required information.
Im also happy that these two separate communications were enough to meet their
obligations for reminders. You noted that reminders was a plural word, so more than one
reminder would be required. This is a valid observation. Again, the investigator considered
that Tesco had met their obligation in this respect however.
In summary, it was the investigators view that Tesco had provided seven days notice to
allow it to cancel the policy, that Mr B knew he had to provide his proof of NCD to Tesco,
and that Tesco had given Mr B notice and reminders about what it was going to do. He
concluded; I cant fairly say that Tesco were wrong to cancel your policy. You had a
reasonable amount of time to provide the information needed but unfortunately didnt do so.He also said; I must consider that theres a responsibility on you to provide your insurer with
the information that they require. I think you had enough time in which to do so.
Mr B doesnt agree with the investigators view and the matter has therefore been referred to
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision, subject to any further relevant information I receive, is that I dont
consider that it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to cancel Mr Bs insurance policy. This is
because Tesco didnt comply with its own policy terms and conditions. Ill explain my
reasons.
The relevant policy terms and conditions explain;
1. Cancelling your policy ....
The administrator, on our behalf, or we can cancel this policy, for a valid reason or on
serious grounds, by sending you seven days notice of cancellation by your preferred
delivery method and also by post, to your last known address. Examples of a valid reason or
serious grounds may include, but are not limited to  not providing proof of no claim
discount that is not resolved following our reminders.
This means that Tesco can cancel a policy for not providing proof of NCD. But they must
give seven days notice to do so after sending reminders to you.
In its welcome letter Tesco said; We may ask you to send us proof of your current no claims
discount entitlement and gave a date by which it would let Mr B know if he needed to send
proof.
Tesco then e-mailed Mr B within the necessary time-scale (Letter 1) and explained; We said
you may need to send us your proof of no claims discount entitlement. On this occasion we
do need to see your latest no claims discount proof. Mr B confirmed that he did receive this
email from Tesco.
Tesco said that the policy booklet makes it clear that it may require NCD proof and if the
requested document wasnt provided, it would cancel the policy. It then referred to the letters
which it had generated and referred to the final reminder (Letter 3) as to the requirement to
send proof of NCD, or cover was at risk of being cancelled. It says that as it never heard
from Mr B, it correctly cancelled the policy as it had given a month to get this proof and Mr B
hadnt responded.
Although Tescos system shows that a Cancellation Notice letter (Letter 2) was generated
and was intended to be sent by post, there is no evidence to show that it was uploaded to
the portal although Tesco say that any such chase letters automatically disappear from the
system. Tescos own communication acknowledges difficulties with the postal system; We
are receiving letters, but there are delays in opening and replying to them. So please only
send us post if you cant contact us by phone or e-mail. I accept that the Covid 19 pandemic
has, to an extent, disrupted ordinary post and on the balance of probabilities, I accept that it
didnt arrive at Mr Bs address.
Regardless of the lack of evidence that the Cancellation Notice was sent, Tesco has told usthat Mr Bs preferred method of communication was via the portal. This is not supported by
the evidence however. Tescos response to Mr Bs original complaint confirms that; Upon
purchasing you chose your preferred method of contact as email and we made you aware all
correspondence would be uploaded to our secure channel. This accords with Mr Bs
recollection, and is also borne out by the fact that this was the method of communication
used for most key communications with Mr B.
Tesco have not therefore complied with its own terms and conditions by failing to send the
Cancellation Notice by Mr Bs preferred method. It would in any event have been fair and
reasonable to back up such important correspondence with an e-mail, bearing in mind the
Covid crisis, particularly in view of the earlier pattern of e-mails.
The question then arises as to whether any of its other communications can be considered
to be a seven days notice of cancellation. The mid-January letter from Tesco (Letter 1)
confirms that proof of NCD will be required, however it gives no time-scale and does not
mention cancellation. Mr B accepted that he had received this e-mail. I agree with Mr B
therefore that Letter 1 doesnt state that the clock is ticking, doesnt provide a deadline by
which he had to produce NCD proof to avoid the policy being cancelled and doesnt
constitute a reminder.
Tesco also sent a letter by e-mail at the end of July 2020 (Letter 3) which again Mr B
accepts that he received. This letter asks for proof of NCD within seven days or the policy
would be cancelled on a specific date. This version appeared on the portal, however the 
email version sent to Mr B didnt include the deadline. Its my view that this letter could be
treated as a Cancellation Notice. Its contradictory however in that it provides seven days to
produce the document but then refers to cancellation on the seventh day. A policy-holder
would expect cancellation on the day after the last day allowed for up-loading the relevant
information.
It may be the case that Mr B left it until the last possible moment to upload proof of NCD
despite being aware of the stated last day to do so. Nevertheless he uploaded it within
seven days of the date of Letter 3, which was the only possible letter which could be treated
as a Cancellation Notice in the light of my previous conclusions.
In all the circumstances therefore, I cant say that it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to
cancel Mr Bs insurance policy. Even if Letter 3 could be treated as a valid Cancellation
Notice (despite its contradictory nature), Tesco still didnt comply with its own terms and
conditions. The terms and conditions refer to the need for reminders and there is no
evidence that any reminders were sent, only Letter 1 which conveys the fact that proof of
NCD would be required, without reference to time-scales or cancellation.
The terms and conditions of the policy are clear and in order to rely upon them to cancel a
policy, its only fair and reasonable to expect Tesco to do what it promises to do before
taking the drastic step of cancelling a policy, with the inevitable stress and inconvenience
that this will cause.
In conclusion, I dont think Tesco provided seven days notice of cancellation, whether by Mr
Bs preferred method or otherwise, it didnt provide reminders and didnt act fairly and
reasonably in cancelling Mr Bs insurance policy.
My provisional decision
Unless I receive any further relevant information which changes my mind, I therefore intend
to require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:- Pay Mr B the difference between the price of his Tesco insurance policy and the amount he
had to pay his new insurer, within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision*.
- Record on its systems the fact that Mr Bs policy was cancelled by Tesco in error and issue
a letter to Mr B which he may share with his current and future insurers to confirm that his
policy with Tesco was cancelled in error.
- To pay compensation to Mr B in the sum of £100 for the extra time, trouble and
inconvenience caused to Mr B, again within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final
Decision*.
*If Tesco pays later than this date, it must also pay interest on the difference in price and
compensation amounts to the date of payment at 8% a year simple interest. If it considers
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Claire Jones
Ombudsman
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman