DRN-3071126
The complaint
 Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc blocked his account without warning or explanation, 
which prevented him from making and receiving payments. Mr W then spent a long time 
trying to resolve the issue. 
What happened
Mr W has a current account with TSB. In September 2020 TSB received a fraud report that 
Mr W wasnt entitled to a payment in to his account.
TSB took the decision to block the account while they investigated. But they didnt inform 
Mr W. He first became aware of any issues was when his card stopped working. He ordered 
a replacement, but TSB didnt let him know what was happening.
Mr W wasnt told that his account was blocked until several weeks after the block was 
applied. And even then, it was several days before TSB let him know what information hed 
need to supply to unblock the account. Two weeks later Mr W tried to submit the required 
information, but the email address supplied was incorrect. He spoke to TSB the next day and 
the information was accepted, and the account unblocked.
Unhappy with how this was handled Mr W complained to TSB. The bank looked in to what 
happened but didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said they were entitled to 
block the account under their terms, and they had no timescale for notifying customers when 
their account has been blocked.
Mr W then referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked at what 
happened and felt TSB had been unfair. They felt that TSB were reasonable in blocking the 
account, but the service up until they told Mr W why the account was blocked was unfair. 
They said this had caused delays in removing the blocks from the account. They felt TSB 
should pay Mr W £100 in compensation to reflect this.
TSB accepted the investigators findings, but Mr W disagreed with them. He said TSB hadnt 
informed him about the block multiple times and had given him misleading information when 
he had to chase this up. They had prevented him from receiving and withdrawing money, 
leading to missed utility payments. He didnt think £100 fairly reflected the impact of the 
situation on him.
Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. I 
asked Mr W to clarify what he believed would be an acceptable level of compensation, and 
he told me £500.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im satisfied it was reasonable for TSB to block Mr Ws account. The terms of the 
account allow TSB to block accounts for suspected fraud, and its a sensible measure to 
take to help protect the bank and customers. And in this case, TSB had received a fraud 
report from another bank, which its right they investigate. While Im sure Mr W found the 
block to be frustrating, I dont think TSB have been unfair in applying it.
However, Id then expect TSB to investigate, and also ask for any relevant information from 
Mr W to explain the payment in question. Id also expect TSB to let Mr W know his account 
was blocked, since its clear from the statements he used it regularly. In this case Mr W did 
have an explanation for the payment that TSB accepted, so its accepted the payment was 
above board. 
TSB have argued that they dont have any timescales on when they let consumers know 
their account has been blocked. But Id expect TSB to have attempted to contact Mr W and 
explain the issue within a reasonable timeframe  certainly shorter than the 22 days it took. I 
can also see Mr W had taken steps to try and resolve the block himself  such as re-ordering 
his card  which should have been unnecessary. This should have prompted TSB in to 
action. Instead it was left to Mr W to chase up and find out what was happening.
Im satisfied that TSB havent treated Mr W fairly in delaying telling him about the block, 
which in turn has delayed the account being unblocked. I also accept that Mr W would have 
been frustrated by not being able to use his account, and not knowing the reason why. 
However, after TSB made Mr W aware of what information they needed from him, theyre 
not responsible for any further delays. I also can see that once Mr W had provided the 
information TSB very quickly removed the blocks and reinstated the full access to the 
account. But I still consider the delay to be longer than is reasonable, so its fair that TSB 
compensate Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused by this.
Ive considered Mr Ws request for £500 compensation. Overall, I feel this would be 
significantly higher than Id award based on the circumstances of the complaint. My role here 
isnt to punish or fine TSB for their actions if I feel they were unfair, but to award Mr W 
reasonable compensation for the impact of these actions  so Ive considered the impact this 
delay had on Mr W. 
Had TSB communicated with Mr W earlier, the account wouldnt have been blocked for so 
long. I can see the account was regularly used by Mr W to receive payments, which wasnt 
possible during the time the account was blocked. But it would have been possible for Mr W 
to arrange with the people paying him to pay either in to another account or after the account 
was unblocked. 
Mr W has also highlighted a direct debit to a utility provider that wasnt paid. Hes provided 
emails from the utility provider confirming the direct debit payment was missed twice, and 
that the service was temporarily suspended. But the date of the suspension is after TSB had 
let Mr W know what information theyd require. Mr W could have mitigated this by supplying 
the requested information earlier. But I also accept TSBs delay in explaining the block 
meant he had a shorter time to provide this evidence than he would have otherwise.
Ive also reviewed the calls between TSB and Mr W. The TSB staff were generally 
professional, but I found them unsympathetic to Mr W  especially since the bank ultimately 
made the decision to allow the account blocks to be lifted. And I also find that providing him 
with the wrong email address would only have compounded the frustration he felt. I can also 
see why Mr W felt pressured by the threat of having his account closed. Im satisfied TSB 
could have handled the situation with my empathy and clarity, and so reduced the distress to 
Mr W.In terms of the time and effort Mr W has had to go to while bringing this complaint, we are a 
free and informal service and do not have the same procedures or formality of a court of law. 
And we are inquisitorial in approach, so we decide what information we need from either 
party to reach a decision we feel is fair. So, although a complainant may decide to invest 
considerable time to present their complaint and complaint points  we would generally not 
award compensation for the costs and time they incurred doing so. It is usual to expect a 
complainant to experience some level of inconvenience by making a complaint. And, I 
havent seen anything which would lead me to compensate Mr W for his efforts in setting out 
his complaint
In this case, considering the length of the delay was 22 days, and that the major effects 
could have been mitigated by Mr W, but also that it will have been an incredibly frustrating 
experience for him, I consider £100 to be a reasonable amount of compensation in the 
circumstances. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr W 
£100 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman