DRN-3634027
The complaint
Miss K complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss K under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that she signed in August 2021. The cars clutch failed in January 2022 
so Miss K complained to Santander Consumer Finance. It arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert later than month. 
Santander Consumer Finance said that the independent inspection had shown that the faults 
wouldnt have been in development from the point of finance inception so the selling agent 
couldnt be held liable. Miss K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K as it wasnt reasonably 
durable. He thought that it would be fair for Santander Consumer Finance to cover the cost 
of the repair. He also recommended that it should refund the monthly payments that Miss K 
had made since she had to stop using the car in January 2022, with interest, and that it 
should pay her a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience that she experienced.
Santander Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
the car was used and sold with just under 50,000 miles so it carries the wear and tear 
of previous users;
clutch faults are commonly very dependent on driver style;
Miss K has driven 7,200 miles in the car in five months (which it says is excessive in 
the circumstances);
the independent expert confirmed that the fault wasnt present at sale or due to an 
unsuccessful previous repair and that it had reached the end of its serviceable life so 
the fault wasnt unexpected at the age and mileage of the car; and
it doesnt agree that the car isnt durable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Santander Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K - whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss K was nearly six years old, had been driven for 
about 49,000 miles and had a price of £7,795;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Miss K in August 2021 and she complained to Santander 
Consumer Finance about the cars clutch in January 2022  less than six months 
later;
Santander Consumer Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert and the inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 56,202 
miles;
the inspection report said: " the vehicle does not display any faults relating to the 
gearbox unit. However, the clutch pedal biting point was noted to be high. We would 
consider that the clutch components have simply reached the end of their serviceable 
life and the vehicle would not have displayed these faults at the point of finance 
inception and therefore the selling agent would not have liability for the faults found. 
The condition would not be unexpected on a vehicle of this age, type and mileage or 
any second hand vehicle. The clutch components including release bearing require 
replacement;
Miss K then took the car to a gearbox specialist in February 2022 and it said: 
Flywheel collapsed and badly worn, flywheel out of tolerance, clutch diaphragm at 
end of travel, recommend new clutch & flywheel. Customer should refer to [a 
manufacturers dealer] as there is a technical bulletin out for this problem;
Miss K had used the car to drive more than 7,000 miles in about six months which 
Santander Consumer Finance says is excessive use  but Im not persuaded that her 
use of the car was excessive and I dont consider that Santander Consumer Finance 
has provided any evidence to show that the issues have been caused by Miss Ks 
driving style;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect that the clutch components on a car 
that had only been driven for 56,202 miles would have reached the end of their 
serviceable life and I consider that it was reasonable for Miss K to expect that the 
clutch on the car would last for more than five months aft er the car was supplied to 
her;
I dont consider that the car was as durable as it was reasonable for Miss K to expect 
it to be and, for that reason, I consider that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to her; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to take 
the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to arrange and 
pay for the issues with the cars clutch to be repaired. Miss K hasnt used the car since the 
issues with the clutch started in January 2022. Shes continued to make monthly payments 
under the agreement to Santander Consumer Finance. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to refund those payments to Miss K for the 
period from when the clutch issues started until those issues are repaired, with interest.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss K. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay her £150 to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to:
1. Arrange and pay for the issues with the cars clutch to be repaired.
2. Refund to Miss K the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement for 
the period from when she stopped using the car in January 2022 until the car is 
repaired.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement.
4. Pay £150 to Miss K to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Santander Consumer Finance must give Miss K a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman