DRN-3438696
The complaint
Ms H complains Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
(SCUK) supplied her with a car that she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms H entered into a conditional sale agreement with SCUK for a used car. 
The cars cash price was £6,974, it had travelled 42,500 miles and it was first registered in 
November 2014. The agreement was to last 60 months with monthly instalments of £154.
In September 2020, the car broke down and it had to be recovered. The next day, Ms H 
contacted the dealership and she was advised to take it to a local garage, who I will refer to 
as W. W said the sump plug had fallen out, oil had drained and the engine had seized. They 
said it would cost around £4,000 to repair.
Ms H complained to SCUK, stating she only had the car for six months and its now not 
working. She said the sump plug must not have been fastened correctly when the car was 
supplied and this caused the oil leak which led to the engine failure.  
In November 2020, SCUK arranged for an independent inspection. The inspection report 
said the vehicle has been driven on to destruction due to low oil, before eventually depleting 
all oil and burning out before complete engine seizure. It went on to say there was 
insufficient evidence of oil spillage to suggest it depleted through an untightened sump plug. 
It concluded the car had suffered from oil starvation which required further inspection to 
assess the damage. Overall it said the fault wouldnt have been present at supply. 
In light of these findings, SCUK made arrangements for a further inspection however they 
said there were delays in doing so due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms H said during this time 
she was left without transport and she needed a car especially as she was a key worker. 
She said she had to hire another car while maintaining the contractual payments and this 
caused her financial hardship. SCUK said they would change the due date for November 
2020s payment so the amount wouldnt be debited.  Ms H said she ended up buying 
another car as she needed to travel to work. 
In January 2021, she advised SCUK of her continued financial difficulty, she was moving, 
the car wasnt working and it needed to be transported to her new address. SCUK confirmed 
they were still making arrangements for the car to be further inspected. 
The car was eventually inspected by a manufacturer approved garage in March 2021. They 
confirmed there was heat damage and scoring to the cams and the engine had seized due 
to oil starvation and it would cost over £8,700 to repair.
Based on the above, SCUK issued their final response. They said there was insufficient 
evidence the fault with the car was present at supply. However in recognition of the delays in 
answering the complaint, they agreed to remove the arrears of January and February 2021 
(£309) as a gesture of goodwill and remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file 
in relation to the two missed payments. 
In April 2021, SCUK considered the car abandoned as it hadnt been collected by Ms H and 
in May 2021 issued a default notice for breach of contract stating the car had been 
abandoned. They said Ms H needed to resume possession of the car by 1 June 2020. As 
the car wasnt retrieved by Ms H, it was sent to auction and sold for £2,900. SCUK said the 
sales proceeds of £2,804 was deducted, meaning Ms H was required to pay the final 
balance of £5,246. SCUK said Ms H hasnt paid any money towards this outstanding 
balance. 
Our investigator recommended the case wasnt upheld. Based on the evidence, they felt 
there wasnt enough evidence the fault with the leak was present at supply. They said this 
was likely to be a wear and tear issue, meaning the car was of satisfactory quality. In terms 
of SCUKs level of service, they felt the compensation offered was fair. 
Ms H disagreed. In summary she said:
- She and her partner checked the car regularly and there were no warning lights 
about the oil; 
- W said the oil leaked due to an untightened sump plug;
- She hadnt abandoned the car after inspection, she didnt know where it was located;
- She was unaware the car had been sold;
- She had been told the contractual payments would be put on hold;
- She couldnt afford the cost of the repairs;
- The level of service from SCUK was poor.
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision partially upholding the complaint, I said:
Ms H was supplied with a used car that was around six years old and had travelled over 
42,500 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered wear 
and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
Based on the evidence of the inspection report, the findings of the manufacturer approved 
garage and garage W, its evident there was a fault with the car. Due to a lack of oil, the 
engine had seized up and the car wasnt working. This isnt in dispute.
However although I accept there was a fault, I must first consider whether its likely to have 
been present at supply. The presence of a fault in a used car doesnt necessarily mean it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. As mentioned above, I think its fair to say for used cars, its 
likely repairs and or maintenance may need to be carried out more quickly or frequently than 
a brand new one. Components of a car cant be expected to last indefinitely and its 
reasonable to expect they would need to be maintained. 
Ive carefully considered the findings of the inspection report and the comments provided by 
garage W. Although it was carried out a couple of months after the car broke down, Im most 
persuaded by the inspection report as it carried out a more extensive examination of the car 
and provided detailed findings. The inspection and W agree the engine had seized due to 
lack of oil but where they differ is the cause of the oil depletion and whether it wouldve been 
present at supply. W said its down to an untightened sump plug but doesnt comment 
whether it wouldve been present at supply. The inspection said there was not enough oil 
spillage or dampness or wash to suggest that the vehicle had depleted all of its oil through 
an untightened sump plug. The inspection also says it was driven on to destruction, 
concluding the fault wouldnt have been present at supply. In my opinion, based on the 
findings of the inspection this would suggest the lack of oil wasnt due to a fault being 
present at supply but due to wear and tear or lack of maintenance of the car. There is 
insufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude the oil depletion was caused by an 
untightened sump plug which was present at  supply.Additionally, I note the car broke down approximately six months after it was supplied and it 
had travelled over 5,500 miles while in Ms Hs possession. I consider this to be a significant 
amount of miles before the fault developed so this strengthens my belief the fault wasnt 
present at supply. 
The inspection report also comments The fault would have been evident in the form of a low 
oil warning, which would have been illuminated audibly and visually on the vehicles 
dashboard. Im aware these lights are there to warn drivers that attention is needed 
otherwise extensive damage may be caused. The manufacturer approved garage also 
commented the cams had been subjected to heavy scoring and heat damage, indicating 
that there was no lubrication in the engine which created this fault. I note Ms H says she nor 
her partner saw warning lights prior to the car breaking down. However on balance, I think 
its more likely than not there were signs there was issues with the oil prior to it breaking 
down which required Ms Hs attention. Overall, I dont have enough evidence to persuade 
me the car suffered a sudden depletion of oil. 
Taking everything into account, I believe the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied so 
I cant say SCUK is responsible for the fault. 
Financial difficulty
From the time the car broke down in September 2020, Ms H hasnt been able to drive it and 
it was out of her possession getting inspected for a considerable amount of time. The car 
wasnt looked at by the manufacturer approved garage until March 2021, that is around four 
months after the initial inspection in November 2020.
During this time, Ms M said she had to find other means of transport yet she was required to 
meet the monthly payments. I can see around November 2020 she made SCUK aware she 
was suffering financial hardship and they agreed to move November 2020s due date so a 
payment wouldnt be taken. This didnt happen and they later paid her £154 as 
compensation. I appreciate the financial pressures this wouldve had on Ms H as she was 
paying for two cars. Given the communication to SCUK, it was clear this situation was 
causing her great distress as she waited for an answer on her complaint. 
Im satisfied on more than one occasion (November 2020 and January 2021), Ms H had 
made it clear to SCUK that she was suffering financial difficulty paying the monthly 
instalments and she was unable to use the car. Our service also made them aware of the 
same in January 2021. 
In such times of financial difficulty, I wouldve expected SCUK to have shown forbearance 
and due consideration as outlined in the CONC guidance as per the FCAS handbook. Aside 
from agreeing to move Novembers payment date, which they didnt do, I cant see SCUK 
had a conversation with Ms H about her financial circumstances so I dont believe they did 
enough to assist her financially.
 
Instead shortly after their final response to the complaint was issued, they considered the car 
to be abandoned at the garage as it hadnt been collected by Ms H. SCUK said they tried to 
call Ms H on 20 and 26 April and left messages but she didnt return their calls. While I 
accept this, I believe it wouldve been fair to have tried to contact her by other methods such 
as by email or letter so I can understand why Ms Hs says she didnt know the cars location. 
SCUK is likely to argue Ms H had no intention of taking back possession of the car and Im 
inclined to agree with this. I say this because she had already said she was experiencing 
financial difficulty, she couldnt afford the repairs to fix the car, there was nowhere to store it 
at her new address and she had bought another car. Given the circumstances, I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for SCUK to have clearly discussed the options to end the agreement early. Based on the agreement, the option of voluntary termination (VT) was 
possible but I believe voluntary surrender (VS) is also another fair option. 
VT wouldve meant handing back the car and paying half the total amount payable plus any 
other costs such as damage to the car. In this case, the total amount payable was £9,389 
thus half is £4,694. Given what Ms H had already paid, in the event the agreement was VTd 
in May 2021, she wouldve been liable to pay a balance of £3,371 plus damage costs. 
According to SCUK, because the car wasnt running and required a substantial repair, the 
damage cost wouldve been around £6,600 meaning the overall liability to VT wouldve been 
around £10,000.
On the other hand, to VS the agreement, Ms H would need to return the car, the sale 
proceeds wouldve been deducted from the total amount payable and she wouldve been 
liable for the outstanding balance. In this case, the sale proceeds of the car was £2,804 but 
of course I must consider Ms H wouldnt have known in advance how much the car would 
sell for. In any event, had SCUK made these two options clear to Ms H, on balance I believe 
she wouldve chosen to VS the agreement as that was likely to be the most cost effective 
option given the significant damage costs. In any event, this is effectively what happened the 
car was sold by SCUK and the sales proceeds were deducted from the balance. The only 
difference is SCUK added a termination fee.
SCUK sent a default notice stating Ms H had abandoned the car and she must resume 
possession. While I note it said if Ms H wishes to end the agreement, she will need to pay 
£3,371 plus damage costs (which was the amount to VT), it also says:
IF YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY IN PAYING ANY SUM OWING UNDER THE AGREEMENT 
OR TAKING ANY OTHER ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE, YOU CAN APPLY TO 
THE COURT WHICH MAY MAKE AN ORDER ALLOWING YOU OR ANY SURETY MORE 
TIME
So I can understand why Ms H felt she had no support or other alternatives available with 
SCUK despite her making it clear to them that she was suffering financial difficulty. 
This is likely to explain why within days of receiving the default, she contacted SCUK. She  
said she was given the impression that further action would be put on hold. I must stress 
SCUK have no obligation to put the account on hold but for the reasons explained above, I 
do believe they couldve done more to support in her time of financial difficulty.
Taking everything into account and in order to put things right, I believe SCUK should treat 
this agreement as being voluntarily surrendered (VS) in May 2021.  They should amend the 
credit file to show the same once the balance is made or an arrangement to pay is agreed 
based on what Ms H can afford. SCUK should also remove the termination fee of £325. 
Theyve already offered to remove the adverse information from January and February 2021 
and pay compensation, this should be done, if not already completed. 
Other
Ms H asked for help in September 2020 but it wasnt until March 2021 when she was told 
where she stood by SCUK. Although I find the car was of satisfactory quality at supply and 
even given the wider circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic, I believe SCUK couldve 
done more to provide an answer sooner. 
Having reviewed SCUKs contact notes, I can see Ms H contacted them on numerous 
occasions requesting to speak to the case handler but many of her requests went 
unanswered. I find the service provided by SCUK was below what I would expect. In 
recognition of the same, I understand they credited her account with £309, the equivalent of 
two months payments as a gesture of goodwill, agreed to pay £154 for not moving Novembers payment date and agreed to remove the relevant arrears marker from her credit 
file for January and February 2021.
 
Summary
Overall, Im not satisfied theres enough evidence to say the fault with the car was present or 
developing at the time of supply therefore I find it was of satisfactory quality. However I dont 
believe SCUK treated Ms H fairly when she told them she was struggling financially. I 
wouldve expected them to have done more to clearly outline the options to end the 
agreement early before terminating it. Had they done so, I believe its most likely Ms H 
wouldve chosen to VS the agreement.
I find the level of service provided by SCUK to be below what I would expect so I can 
understand Ms Hs frustration and upset about this. However SCUK has paid over £500 in 
compensation (£154 for not updating Novembers payment date and £390 for poor service) 
and I believe this is a fair amount in the circumstances so I wont be asking them to pay 
more. 
Response to the provisional decision
Ms H disagreed with the findings of the provisional decision. In brief, she said:
- She didnt drive the car to destruction. She nor her partner ignored any warning 
lights;
- The inspection was after the oil depletion but at the time it happened, there was a 
puddle of oil present and the garage advised the untightened sump plump was the 
cause;
- The repair cost quoted by SCUK was high and their level of service was poor.
SCUK said as it was a conditional sale agreement and not a personal loan agreement, 
voluntary surrender wasnt available to Ms H, only voluntary termination was possible and 
they didnt consider that to be a cost effective option. They also said there was no other 
option which could have been offered to Ms H which wouldve assisted with her financial 
difficulties so overall they believed they treated her fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their further comments which Ive carefully considered. I understand 
Ms H is disappointed by my findings and Im sorry if I caused her any offense as that wasnt 
my intention. However there is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Concerning SCUKs further comments, while I 
understand VT is a contractual right under such agreements I think its generally fair that the 
option of VS is also given especially in instances of financial difficulty as was the case with 
Ms H. Therefore I remain of the belief they didnt treat her fairly in that regard.
 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Hs complaint.
To put things right, Santander Consumer (UK) must:
- Treat the agreement as being voluntarily surrendered in May 2021;
- Remove the termination fee of £325 from the outstanding balance; 
- Amend Ms Hs credit file to show the agreement being voluntarily surrendered once 
the balance is paid off or an arrangement to pay is agreed;
- Remove adverse information Ms Hs credit file from January and February 2021 (as 
already agreed)
- Pay the compensation amount offered (if not done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman