DRN-4143119
The complaint
Mr S has complained that the charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied to his 
overdraft caused him extreme financial difficulty. He is also unhappy about the difficulties he 
has faced in trying to get in touch with Santander. 
What happened
Mr S has an overdraft with a limit of £3,000. Mr S complained to Santander about its charges 
causing him financial difficulty and the difficulty he had trying to get through to it.
Santander provided Mr S with a direct number to contact its financial support team and gave 
him the details of organisations that could assist him with his debt. Santander apologised for 
the wait time that Mr S experienced and offered him £40 compensation. Mr S accepted the 
£40 and brought his complaint to this service.
Following this Santander reviewed Mr Ss complaint again and agreed as a gesture of 
goodwill to settle Mr Ss complaint by:  
Refunding all fees and interest paid from December 2020 to date and apply 8% 
interest to that amount. The charges add up to £633.97 and Santander will waive 
any pending charges.
This would be on the conditions that:
The settlement amount would be used to reduce Mr Ss overdraft balance and Mr Ss 
limit would be reduced to the remaining balance; 
That Mr S then contacts its Financial Support team within 30 days so that it can 
arrange a reduction plan to clear the remaining overdraft.
During this period all fees and interest will be suspended;
If a plan is not agreed then Santander will provide 30 days notice to remove the 
overdraft in line with its terms and conditions.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Santander had offered is in-line 
with what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr S disagreed, he is unhappy at having the overdraft facility removed as he doesnt have 
the money to pay it off and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, on review Santander agreed to refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Ss 
overdraft facility following him getting in touch with its credit card financial support team in 
December 2020. Mr S declined to discuss his overdraft at the time until a budget planner 
had been completed, but once it was completed with the credit card team Santander failed to 
go on to discuss his overdraft facility. 
And having reviewed Mr Ss statements and Santanders internal notes Im in agreement 
that Santander shouldve done more to help Mr S with the knowledge it had at that time it 
was clear that Mr S was having financial difficulties. If Mr S agrees to Santanders offer he 
will likely be left with an outstanding balance on his overdraft, once all adjustments have 
been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his 
overdraft. And furthermore, Santander wishes to remove his overdraft facility. 
Mr S is unhappy with this, but it is clear from Mr Ss statements that he has not been able to 
maintain a credit balance for a long period of time and that it is not affordable for him. It 
would be irresponsible of a lender to not take this action. So while Mr S may be left with a 
balance to pay and will no longer have the overdraft facility and he might be unhappy with 
this, Santander has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr S says Santander should do something different here. He says that he doesnt have the 
money to pay off his overdraft.  Ive thought about what Mr S has said. And what hes said is 
a reason for upholding his complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal 
approach to putting things right in cases such as his. All the interest, fees and charges 
Santander shouldnt have added have been removed from what he now needs to pay. So 
what Mr S is left with to repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and 
Santander will work with Mr S to work out a reduction plan that is affordable for him. 
So in these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr S spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr S to repay these funds and I dont agree that allowing him to 
continue to have an overdraft facility which he says he cant afford to pay off would be 
appropriate or responsible. Mr S is also unhappy about the difficulties he has had in trying to make contact with 
Santander. Some of the period Mr S is talking about was during the pandemic. Im sure Mr S 
would agree that this was an unprecedented time and that some allowances need to be 
given for that. And I can see from Santanders contact notes that Mr S was able to discuss 
his finances with Santander during 2020 and 2021 and that the main contact issue he had 
was when he raised his complaint. Santander has already compensated Mr S £40 for the 
wait time he experienced on that occasion which Mr S accepted and I havent seen enough 
to persuade me further compensation is warranted here or would make a material difference 
to his situation.  
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already offered to do to 
put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im 
not persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im not requiring Santander to do 
anything more. 
Mr S should now let Santander know whether he is willing to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman