DRN-3727804
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her during an account 
switch from another bank.
What happened
Miss M wanted to transfer her account to Barclays from another bank. Her partner had 
recently done the same switch.
Miss M complains about the service she received during that switch. She said her partner 
was able to do the switch over the telephone, but Barclays told her this wasnt possible. It 
said her options were to use the mobile app, online banking or go into branch. Miss M didnt 
want to use either the app or online banking so went into branch. Shes wasnt happy she 
had to make an appointment due to the Covid-19 pandemic and she wasnt happy with the 
service she received in branch  which includes the advisor not wearing PPE. Miss M says 
shes been discriminated against on account of her gender because her partner received a 
much better service than her.
Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong by 
letting Miss M know what her options were and maintained these were the only options 
available to her.
Unhappy, Miss M brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt recommend it 
be upheld. She too thought Barclays had treated Miss M fairly by letting her know the 
options she had available to complete the switch.
Miss M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
Miss M wanted. At this point Id like to explain that all Miss Ms and Barclays evidence has 
been considered. But while everything has been considered Ill not be commenting on each 
and every point. Ill be setting out what I think the key points are and addressing those.
This decision concerns Miss Ms complaint only. It doesnt consider any complaint her 
partner has. Should he want to make one (or if he already has), it will need to be considered 
separately.
Miss M has said shes been discriminated against based on her gender which is a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act 2010. And shes said Barclays failed to provide her the 
service it needed to under the Consumer Act 2015. She thinks this because she feels she 
was given less help than her partner and thinks this is because shes female and hes male. 
She thinks she was given less help and less options when trying to complete the account 
switch than her partner and that shes directed to machines when she visits the branch 
whereas her partner is assisted by staff.
Its not my role or the role of this service to make a finding on whether or not Barclays broke 
the law  thats a matter for the courts. My role is to determine whether or not Barclays 
treated Miss M fairly. This consideration takes into account all the circumstances of the 
complaint and the relevant laws. In this case, Im satisfied Barclays treated Miss M fairly. 
This is because:
A key part of Miss Ms complaint is that her partner, a male, was able to switch the 
account over the telephone and she wasnt. I can understand why this would seem 
unfair. But in reality, her partner wasnt able to complete the transfer over the 
telephone  he completed it on the mobile banking app and was guided through this 
over the telephone. I appreciate Miss M wasnt initially told this by her partner, but I 
dont hold Barclays responsible for that. Miss M didnt want to use the app, which is 
fine, thats her choice. But I dont find that she was offered fewer options than her 
partner or that the options she was given were based on her gender.
From listening to the call provided Im satisfied Barclays gave Miss M all the options 
available to her. And I think it did try and help her with the switch as best it could. 
I wasnt present in branch, so cant say for certain what happened there. But I can 
understand Miss Ms unhappiness with not being able to sort the issue on her first 
visit. But Barclays explanation of the reduced service it was providing during the 
pandemic seems reasonable, so I dont require it to do anything more. And while I 
can appreciate Miss Ms frustration around the PPE worn at the time, whether 
Barclays adhered to the regulations in place at the time isnt something Im able to 
comment on.
I understand Miss M has alleged her partner is always given a choice of how to carry 
out his banking affairs when in branch, while she is always directed to machines. 
Barclays has said this is down to the types of transactions Miss M was wanting to 
complete, and its said itll direct people to use the machines to carry out transactions 
and service possible on those machines where and when it can. That seems a 
reasonable response to me and Im satisfied based on Barclays testimony that this 
explanation seems more likely than Miss M being given a different service based on 
her gender.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman