DRN-3915556
The complaint
Mr M complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIE) havent given him a fair  
settlement valuation for his car following a fire as they have attributed some of the damage 
to wear and tear.  
      
What happened
In September 2022 Mr M made a claim following a fire in his car. 
AIEs agents collected the car and inspected it. They reported that they couldnt find any 
significant fire damage and attributed the main damage to mechanical failure of the turbo 
and engine. 
As a result, AIE offered a settlement which deducted the cost of a replacement engine as 
that was the most likely cause of the damage. Mr M initially agreed to the settlement, but 
said he would send in additional evidence of the fire.
The valuation of the car was £2770, minus the engine replacement of £1750 and the excess 
of £575. The balance of £445 was paid to Mr Ms finance company on 17 November 2022. 
Mr M didnt provide any further evidence, but he did raise a complaint. AIE sent their final 
response on 24 November 2022. 
Mr M was unhappy with AIEs response and brought his complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and he thought that AIEs offer 
was fair. Mr M didnt agree and so the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and I will explain why. 
Valuation
At p12 of the policy it outlines how a valuation settlement will be calculated when a car is 
deemed a total loss. It says:
If your claim is settled by a cash payment, we will pay up to the market value of your car (as 
it is at the time of the loss or damage) less the excess shown in your schedule. We will pay 
this amount against any outstanding finance or credit agreement first.
The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification, year, 
mileage and condition.
In assessing the market value of your car, we will refer to insurance industry recognised
guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale to
the general public.
The market valuation given by AIE is £2770, so I have considered if this is fair with reference 
to the trade guides that we have access to. The valuations that I have seen are Glasss - 
£2,630, CAP -  £3,175, Cazoo  - £2,859 and AutoTrader - £2,680.
So, Im satisfied that the valuation of £2770 given by AIE is fair as it is in the range of 
valuations at the relevant time. 
Deductions from the valuation
Ive then looked at whether AIE have fairly made deductions from the valuation. They have 
made a deduction of £1750 for value of a replacement engine as they say that the engine 
was damaged due to a mechanical fault resulting from wear and tear rather than the fire, and 
they also made a deduction for the policy excess. 
The policy terms at p12 say that cover provided is:
We will insure you against loss of or damage to your car caused by:
 fire (if the policy cover is shown as comprehensive or third party, fire and theft in the 
schedule)
The key part of this term is that the cover is only provided for any damage that is caused by 
the fire itself. So, if the engine suffers mechanical failure which causes a fire, the insurance 
cover will only pay for the damage resulting from the fire, not the mechanical failure that was 
the root cause of the fire itself. 
I raised further queries with AIEs engineers to try and get a better understanding of what 
caused the fire, and what parts of the engine were damaged by mechanical failure and what 
damage was caused by the fire.  
I have been told that the turbo lubrication seal failed and leaked hot oil into the engine onto 
hot components which then ignited the oil and caused the fire. The engineers have 
confirmed that the engine damage was caused by the mechanical failure of the turbo, and 
the engine failed as a result of the subsequent oil leak. The damage that was caused by the 
fire itself was only light damage to the wiring, hoses and plastics under the bonnet of the car. 
In view of this, I cant fairly say that the fire was the cause of the damage to the engine itself, 
but rather that the mechanical failure as a result of wear and tear to the turbo caused the  
damage to the engine. As the engine itself wasnt damaged by the fire, I agree that its fair 
for AIE to deduct the cost of a replacement engine from the settlement figure.  
In respect of the excess, I can see that the policy schedule is clear that where a claim is for 
fire, there is a compulsory excess of £325 and a voluntary excess of £250, so Im satisfied 
that the excess has been deducted correctly. I appreciate that Mr M didnt realise that there 
was an additional compulsory excess, but it is clearly listed on his policy schedule.  
Courtesy CarUnder the terms of the policy Mr M is only eligible for a courtesy car if his car is repairable, 
and while it is being repaired. 
AIE are entitled to carry out an inspection first to establish if the car is repairable, and if it is 
the garage will then provide a courtesy car. The policy is clear at p12 that no courtesy car 
will be provided if the car is deemed a total loss.
So, Im satisfied that AIE have acted fairly in not providing a courtesy car.   
My final decision
My decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited and they dont need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman