DRN-1860297
 
The complaint
Mr J complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) turned down his insurance claim 
following damage caused to furniture by the family pet. 
What happened
Mr J purchased a suite of furniture in November 2017 and took out a Care and Protection 
Plan with Amtrust at the same time. The policy covered Mr J for accidental damage to the 
furniture for five years, including damage caused by pets. 
Mr J and his family went on holiday for a week in August 2019. The family cat remained 
behind in the house and had access only to the kitchen. However, at some point the cat 
gained access to the living room and caused damage to two sofas by scratching them. 
Mr J submitted a claim to Amtrust when he returned from holiday, but this was turned down. 
Amtrust said Mr Js claim was excluded under section 3.1e of his policy, which says that 
The insurance will not pay for costs arising fromwear and tear, anything which happens 
gradually or over a sustained period of time, or by the accumulation of multiple stains. It 
said the damage was not consistent with a single incident. 
So Mr J complained to Amtrust. Amtrust responded and said a service company visited Mr 
Js home on 30 September 2019 and their report said: 
Inspection showed excessive claw damage to 3 seater and 2 seater front and rear arm 
panels and lower front border panels. Customer explains they were away for a week and cat 
was left home alone all week Customer explains cat got into room and damaged both 
sofas. Customer did not explain what set in place to prevent cat from entering into room. 
The fabric has been damaged to a point that frame foam is visible. The fibres are showing 
damage upon damage and look aged. This does not appear to be showing consistency with 
a single incident of accidental damage. The damage is showing signs of a build up over 
time.
Amtrust said in light of this information, the claim handler requested further information from 
the service company that the damage was not consistent with a single incident. The service 
company said: 
I do not think that dirt being imbedded into the scratches is the only marker to go off. The 
damage is showing frayed material indicating multiple scratching upon scratching. The 
damaged material looks very worn and aged.
Also the damage is in multiple areas on both sofas which would be consistent with areas that 
a cat would use as a scratching board. As far as dirt being imbedded into the material it 
would be difficult to view due to the frayed strands of fabric. I was unable to view dirt in the 
strands. The areas affected are not seating areas but are outer areas. 
Amtrust said the protection plan Mr J bought is designed to cover for any single incidents of 
sudden and unintentional accidental damage and staining, and so it did not uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr J then complained to this service. He said when he left, the cat was shut in the kitchen. 
She had ample food and water and so was able to be left unattended. During the course of 
the week, the door between the living room and kitchen was opened and the cat got into the 
living room. Mr J said the cat is usually only allowed in the living room when people are also 
there. Mr J said the cat used both sofas as scratching boards and both are now frayed. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. She said she has seen a copy of the policy 
given to Mr J at the point of sale and reviewed the photographs supplied by Amtrust. She 
said there is extensive damage to the sofas, that is unlikely to be the result of a single 
incident. Our investigator said the expert evidence from Amtrusts assessor is that the cat 
scratches were likely to have built up over time and it would not be reasonable, in the 
absence of any conflicting expert evidence, for her to ignore this. She concluded that 
Amtrust did not act unfairly when it said the damage wasnt sustained in a one-off event and 
turned down the claim. 
Mr J responded to our investigators assessment and reiterated that the cat had not been left 
in the living room, that she had been locked in the kitchen. He said the damage wasnt a 
single one-off event, but a one-off incident and occurred only during the week he was on 
holiday. Mr J said if the damage had happened earlier, then he would have submitted a 
claim earlier.  
Mr J was unhappy with the outcome and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mr J took out the insurance policy, including accidental pet cover, in the 
hope it would cover situations like this one. But his policy doesnt cover all incidents of 
damage caused by his pet. The policy says it: 
will cover You under this insurance against the cost of removing stains or repairing 
damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accidental event (Accidental Damage) to the 
insured Item(s) during the Period of Insurance.
And, in relation to damage caused by pets it says: 
This insurance will cover You against the cost of repairing Accidental Damage to your 
insured items resulting in rips, tears, burns, heat marks, scuffs, scratches, gouges, dents, 
chips and punctures. Where such damage is caused by pets, cover is limited to pet damage 
occurring on up to a maximum of two occasions during the period of insurance. 
So this means the policy will cover scratches caused by pets, if these are caused 
unexpectedly and on a single occasion (the event). Amtrust said the service company 
inspected the damage and said the extent of the damage suggests the scratches to the 
sofas happened over time and were not the result of a single event. So it thinks the damage 
is the result of wear and tear. And the policy does not cover general wear and tear. 
I know that Mr J said the damage happened during the week he was away and so occurred 
over a relatively short period of time, and not over the lifetime of the furniture. Ive seen the 
photographs of the damage to the sofas. And while I acknowledge it might well be possible that the scratches were caused by the cat over a period of about a week, the damage is so 
extensive that I can see why Amtrust think that amount of damage could only have 
happened over a lengthier period of time. 
Amtrust used a third-party company to inspect the damage to the sofas and provide it with a 
written service report. And this report has concluded that the damage is showing signs of a 
build up over time. Amtrust is allowed to rely on this report because the third-party company 
are experts whose role it is to inspect items for insurance claims assessments. 
And, without any expert evidence saying something to the contrary, and because Im 
satisfied that the damage to the sofas is extensive, I think, on balance, the damage was not 
the result of a single event, as defined within the policy. Im satisfied that what happened in 
this situation, where the sofas were scratched repeatedly over a period of a week, is not a 
single event.  
So, although I know my decision will disappoint Mr J, I am not going to ask Amtrust to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman