DRN-3825733
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc (SB) declined to refund her a payment she 
made using her credit card.
What happened
In summary, Mrs W made payments towards the venue for her daughters wedding. She 
says that because of the global Covid-19 pandemic the 2020 wedding was postponed to 
2021 and then could not go ahead.
She was not able to get the refund she wanted from the supplier so she approached SB 
around March 2021 for help. In summary:
 SB raised a successful chargeback for the balance payment but says that it was 
outside the chargeback time limit to raise a claim for the initial £1,500 deposit (which 
was made in July 2019); and
 SB said that Mrs W did not have a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) as the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
was not in place.
Our investigator thought that SB were in time to raise a chargeback for the deposit. He also 
thought that the chargeback would have likely succeeded had it been raised. Therefore, he 
recommended that SB refund the deposit to Mrs W with interest.
SB responded to say, in summary, that the reason code Goods or Services Not Provided 
(and the particular merchant code) means there is a 540-day timescale to raise the 
chargeback from the date of the original transaction  so a chargeback would not have been 
successful in accordance with the scheme rules.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the circumstances around the global pandemic meant that Mrs Ws 
daughters wedding could not go ahead as planned. However, in order to decide whether it is 
fair for SB to refund her the deposit I consider its obligations under the specific card 
protections available  in this case chargeback and Section 75.
Section 75
Because of my findings on chargeback (below) I dont consider it necessary to go into detail 
regarding the Section 75 aspect of this case. However, I will cover it briefly.
Section 75 allows Mrs W in certain circumstances to hold SB liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or services paid for using the credit 
card. However, in order for Section 75 to apply certain criteria need to be met which are set 
out in law. 
I have had due regard to the relevant criteria for a valid Section 75 claim  particularly noting 
that SB has pointed out that the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement for a 
valid claim is not in place. 
SB says there is no valid DCS agreement because although Mrs W made the payment the 
wedding is not for her benefit. But for me, the key issue here is not simply the idea of benefit 
(which in itself can be a somewhat wide concept) but ultimately whether Mrs W has a 
contractual agreement with the supplier. 
In this case I think it is clear that Mrs W as the primary cardholder is the debtor and that she 
has a contractual agreement with SB which is the creditor. In turn there are also payment 
arrangements between SB and the supplier here.
However, I do not think Mrs W is contracting with the supplier. The contractual paperwork 
appears to be in the name of her daughter, and her daughters partner. The contractual 
position is clear that these two are the clients of the supplier and not Mrs W. I dont think 
there is anything in the contract or otherwise that leads me to believe that Mrs W is jointly 
contracting here. 
So, in conclusion I dont think there is the correct DCS agreement for Mrs W to have a valid 
Section 75 claim against SB in respect of any potential breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. With this in mind I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require SB to do anything more in respect of the Section 75 element of the 
claim it considered.
Chargeback
While I dont think SB were wrong in discontinuing the Section 75 claim I think they could 
have done more here in respect of chargeback.
It is clear that any chargeback operates in accordance with the particular scheme rules. I 
agree that SB would not be expected to raise a chargeback for the deposit if the relevant 
rule was clearly timed out. However, I am not persuaded they didnt have time to raise the 
chargeback in this particular case. 
Firstly, I think the relevant reason code here is Goods or Services Not Provided. SB has 
previously indicated that a chargeback would not succeed via this rule because the 
merchant did not cancel. It says the wedding contract was cancelled by the customer and 
the postponed date could have gone ahead with limited guests. I disagree with these points. 
The documents published in February 2021 describing the government plan for ongoing 
restrictions in respect of the lockdown (that was announced in January 2021) made it clear 
that the delayed wedding date could not go ahead. From what I can see even a small 
gathering would not have been possible  but even if this were the case it would not have 
been receipt of the service as originally agreed. So I think that the service was not received 
 and that the reason code Goods and Services Not Provided is appropriate.
I have asked our investigator to refer SB to the specific section from the relevant scheme 
rules showing the timeframe for raising a chargeback under the Goods or Services Not 
Provided reason code. SB has referred to a 540-day long stop time frame  but this appears to be in respect of situations that dont apply here (e.g. interruption of ongoing services) or in 
respect of other chargeback rules.
After looking at the details of the applicable chargeback rule I am satisfied the timescales 
that apply relate to delayed delivery of services, and that in this instance a chargeback can 
be raised within 120 calendar days of the latest anticipated performance date specified by 
the merchant. There is nothing I can see referring to a 540-day long stop for this particular 
scenario. I think if there were a 540-day limit this would be stated because other individual 
scenarios do specifically refer to this. I also dont see where the particular merchant code SB 
referred to as described in the rules infers that a 540-day long stop applies here either.
So in absence of compelling and specific evidence from SB as to why a 540-day longstop 
applies here I think that SB had 120 calendar days from the 11 April 2021 to raise a 
chargeback for Mrs W. From what I can see SB had all the relevant information to raise a 
chargeback shortly after this date had passed. I note it contacted Mrs W on 15 April 21 to 
decline the chargeback  but because of the time limit I have described, and the information 
it had from Mrs W I think it could have raised one.
It follows, that because SB did not raise the chargeback it deprived Mrs W of a reasonable 
opportunity to get her money back. So I have considered whether, had it raised the 
chargeback whether it would have likely succeeded. After doing so I think the chargeback 
was more likely to succeed than not. It was clear that the wedding service did not go ahead 
because of the pandemic. And I note that the chargeback for the balance payment which SB 
raised was successful, indicating that this likely would have been too. 
I recognise that the chargeback scheme is not guaranteed. However, in the particular 
circumstances, I think it fair and reasonable that SB refund Mrs W for the deposit. I think it 
fair that it also pays her simple out of pocket interest on this refund from the point it should 
have raised the chargeback to the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mrs W £1,500 with 8% simple 
yearly interest payable from the 15 April 2021 to the date of settlement.
I asked the parties for their comments. 
Mrs W confirmed she had nothing more to add. 
SB disagreed with my interpretation of the chargeback time limits. It says it has relied on 
documented guidance and training from the card scheme and does not believe it should 
have processed the chargeback (or the one that was successful for the same reasons). 
However, on the basis that the other chargeback was processed and succeeded it agrees to 
the remedy I have outlined in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the response of SB and thank it for the additional rationale behind its particular stance 
on the time limits. However, I dont think what it has provided is persuasive in showing that 
my interpretation of the time frame for raising a chargeback in this instance is incorrect. I 
note that the specific part of the document it has highlighted to support its stance refers to interruption of ongoing services. I dont think that is likely to apply here as this was not an 
ongoing service that was interrupted  but a one-off event that was delayed. So in the 
absence of compelling evidence otherwise I am not minded to depart from my provisional 
findings (as copied above). I still consider there was enough time to raise a chargeback here 
 and that it would likely have succeeded.
In any event I also see SB has agreed with my proposed resolution for settlement. So all 
things considered and taking into account my provisional findings and the comments of the 
parties I consider SB should put things right as I have set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
SB should put things right in accordance with my direction below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mrs W £1,500 with 8% simple 
yearly interest payable from the 15 April 2021 to the date of settlement.
Should SB consider it appropriate to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mrs 
W with a certificate of tax deduction so she can claim a refund from HMRC (if applicable).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman