DRN-3899075
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money told him that his chosen 
conveyancing firm couldnt act on both his behalf and the lender as it was also acting on 
behalf of the seller when he was taking out a buy to let (BTL) mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M was buying a BTL property and applied for a mortgage with Virgin Money. The 
mortgage offer issued on 20 May 2022. Mr Ms solicitors informed Virgin Money on 30 May 
2022 that they were acting on behalf of both parties to the transaction. On 2 June 2022, 
Virgin Money said that it didnt consent to this. Mr Ms conveyancing firm said that it had 
appointed different branches of the firm to act for both parties but Virgin Money said this was 
unacceptable. Mr M says this meant that he couldnt conclude the purchase with Virgin 
Money. Mr M lost out on a valuation fee and the favourable interest rate he was getting with 
Virgin Money. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as 
Virgin Money acted promptly as soon as it became aware of the issue and that it wasnt 
reasonable for it to explain all its terms and conditions at the outset but to make them clear 
when the need arises. Mr M disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the application was received on 4 May and a mortgage offer issued on 20 May 
2022.The offer expired on 18 November 2022. The same conveyancing solicitor was 
instructed by both parties. That is a potential conflict of interest and Virgin Moneys 
instruction to solicitors on its panel is that they cant act for both parties in such a transaction. 
The solicitors recognised this and told Virgin Money of the problem on 30 May 2022 and the 
lender responded on 5 June asking how the solicitors intended to deal with it indicating that 
the lender required a different form of solicitors to represent its interest. The solicitors said 
that they could arrange for different offices of the firm to act for both parties but on 9 June 
2022, Virgin Money emailed to say It is not Virgin Moneys policy to consent to a single firm 
of solicitors acting for all of the parties to a transaction and we will not authorise it in the 
present circumstances.
Virgin Money has a right, of course, to appoint the solicitor of its choice to represent it as 
does Mr M. It appears to be content ordinarily to allow the solicitor for the purchaser to 
represent it if the firm is on its panel except where that solicitor also represents the seller. In 
that case it isnt content for the one firm to act for all parties because of a conflict of interest. 
It gave Mr M the choice through his solicitor of finding another solicitor to represent himself 
or Virgin Money appointing a solicitor to represent its interests. I consider that this was an 
entirely reasonable decision for Virgin Money to make faced with a conflict of interest. Its 
also not unusual for a lender to do so. 
Mr M would have liked to have known in advance of Virgin Moneys policies in regard to 
solicitors and conflicts of interest. Thats not really a matter for him. Its a matter for Virgin 
Money to decide what solicitor it wants to act for it. Mr M could always have retained the firm 
he instructed but in that case Virgin Money would have instructed its own firm. Thats nothing 
to do with the terms of the mortgage and I cant see why Virgin Money should be required to 
disclose its policy in respect of who it instructs to Mr M.
I assume that in any case, no-one knew in advance that there was going to be a conflict of 
interest, so I cant see the advantage to Mr M of the lenders policy being disclosed to him in 
advance. It was identified by Mr Ms solicitors on 30 May shortly after the mortgage offer 
issued which gave plenty of time for Mr M to arrange separate representation for both 
himself and Virgin Money or allow Virgin Money to instruct separate representation for itself. 
This isnt unusual and I see no reason why it would, as Mr M says, derail his mortgage. Mr 
M could have continued with another firm of solicitors or with his own firm acting for him and 
a different firm acting for Virgin Money. That would not have held up his purchase unduly. 
So, I dont consider that Virgin Moneys policy is wrong or that Mr M lost out because of it, 
and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.    
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman