DRN-3589062
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made
for the loss of items while away from home under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr M travelled away from home for a few days. While away he said he lost
items that he had within one of two suitcases Mr M was travelling with.
Ageas investigated Mr Ms claim and decided to decline it. It said his account was
misleading and he hadnt been able to account for how the items were lost.
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought Ageas should deal with the
majority of Mr Ms claim and so she recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld.
Mr M accepted the Investigators view. Ageas didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June 2022. I also intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
but had reached a different outcome to the Investigator in relation to the items being claimed 
for. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. Ageas asked for an extension of time to make 
further representations, which we agreed. As that time has now passed and Ageas hasnt 
provided any further information, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
There have been detailed exchanges between Ageas, its agents and Mr M during the claim.
My final decision focuses on the salient points.
Mr Ms policy with Ageas says it will provide cover in the following circumstances:
If you take your contents away from your home temporarily, within the UK, Channel
Islands or Isle of Man, well still pay claims if theyre lost, stolen or damaged.
Screenshots provided by Ageas show the limit under this cover term is £3,000.
Mr M described to Ageas the circumstances of the claimed loss in an online claim form in
June 2021. He said the purpose of his trip was to visit friends and to speak at events for a
charity he supports. He said he took two suitcases with him: one for his clothes and one
smaller one which contained one of two holdalls along with a carrier bag. One of the holdalls
contained presentation materials for the charity talks. He said the other (lost) holdall and
carrier bag included the following:
a ring, an antique pill box, a bracelet, cash, headphones, a chain, a watch, soap bag,
shaver, protein powder, underwear, medication, vitamins, 3 mugs, 10 books, keyrings, place
mats, a towel and tea towels, a teddy, a T-shirt, prints and postcards.
Mr M said hed noticed at around 5pm on the day in question that the items were missing as
he needed to take his medication. On the online form Mr M said it had taken until now 
being five days after the event  to try and record everything as his concentration isnt great
as a result of the medication he takes.
Mr M reported the loss to the police and posted on social media to see if the items could be
found. He was able to obtain replacement medication at a local pharmacist.
Mr M said on the day in question he had changed accommodation. He had also visited
several venues that day and used public transport. He retraced his steps but the lost items
havent been recovered. Mr M said he kept the suitcase with him at all times that day. He
said he had opened and closed the small suitcase several times during the day. He doesnt
know when the loss occurred. There was no sign of damage to the suitcase.
Mr M said that in the holdall was jewellery (a ring and a pill box) which belonged to his late
father as well as his own valuables. He explained that he had previously put items of value in
the holdall and locked it away in his room while carers were in the home he shared with his
father before he passed away. Mr M said he didnt notice the items were still in the holdall
until after hed left home for his trip. He said the remaining jewellery was his own which he
took to wear in the evenings.
Ageas instructed an interviewer which Ill call R to interview Mr M. Just before the interview
date  and around six weeks after Mr M first made his claim  Mr M contacted R to report
additional items he said he realised were also lost. He listed a pair of prescription glasses, a
designer pair of sunglasses, a designer pair of gloves and a ring that belonged to a late
relative.
R asked Mr M if he had reported the additional lost items to the police or Ageas. Mr M said
he hadnt yet as he wasnt sure which agency to contact, given there were a number
involved in the claim: Ageas, the jewellery valuation agent, and R.
In August 2021 R reported that Mr Ms account was consistent, but they had concerns about
the validity of his claim. Mr M was able to provide some receipts. For the pill box Mr M wasnt
able to provide any evidence. For remaining items Mr M provided photos.
R found it implausible that the items could have gone missing without Mr M noticing and
while Mr M had the suitcase with him at all times during the day in question. R believed 
some of the photos had been staged.
Mr M told R some evidence of purchase or ownership had been destroyed in a previous
flood. R questioned how this could be unless Mr M had kept receipts at ground level.
My understanding is that Mr M packed the holdall but didnt know there was some jewellery
inside the holdall: being a ring and pill box. However, Rs account suggests Mr M didnt
realise he had packed the holdall in the suitcase. This didnt seem to make sense to R asthey believed Mr M would have noticed the holdall.
I can see from Ageas notes on 6 August 2021 that it discussed this with Mr M. Mr M said he
had various items with him including two suitcases, two holdalls, and a bag for a 
presentation stand.
In August 2021 Ageas rejected Mr Ms claim. The reason it gave was that the photos
provided had been checked and showed they had been taken the day before they were sent
to Ageas.
Mr M immediately responded to confirm they were screenshots of original photos and sent
the original photos to Ageas. Mr M raised a complaint about the handling of the claim and
the length of time Ageas was taking.
Ageas accepted Mr Ms explanation about the photos. But in September 2021 it didnt
uphold his complaint. Ageas said Mr M had provided misleading information and hadnt been
able to provide an explanation as to how the claimed items were lost.
Ive considered the reasons R gave for their concerns. Some  including some which I 
havent listed  are not relevant to Mr Ms claim. The photos R says looked staged were
taken a few years before Mr M made his claim. So I dont know how they could have been
staged for the claim. I think Mr Ms explanation as to why he didnt notice a couple of small
items in the holdall while packing is plausible.
Ive found Mr Ms account to be consistent as to what he recalls on the day of the loss in
June 2021. Mr M has said he doesnt know if the items were lost or stolen. He is unable to
say because he doesnt know when on that day he lost the items. Ageas say its unlikely that
Mr M removed the items during the day and misplaced returning them to his suitcase. But I
think its plausible that this is what happened. Mr M reported the loss to the police on the
same day.
In response to the Investigators view, Ageas said it doesnt believe the number of items Mr
M reported as lost could have fitted into a holdall  or into the small suitcase with the
additional items Mr M said he was carrying with him.
I can see from the photos provided that the small suitcase is as Ageas describes  the size
of a carry on flight case. But as the holdall in question was lost, I havent seen anything
which shows what size the lost holdall was.
I think Mr M has provided a consistent account about the items he reported as lost on 15
June 2021 and at each stage provided a prompt and plausible reply to Ageas questions.
And so as things stand, I think Ageas should consider Mr Ms claim for the items he reported
as lost on 15 June 2021.
Ageas says that if it is asked to deal with Mr Ms claim, the policy excludes cover for
contents lost away from home that is; Anything taken out of your home to sell, display or
exhibit
Ageas therefore says that the items Mr M included in his claim that fall under this category
wont be covered.
Im satisfied that Ageas is entitled to deal with Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining terms
and conditions of the policy which includes the above exclusion.
In July 2021 Mr M reported additional lost items to R. In his email he wrote:I have not sent this as I was going to ask if its possible to add on to the items lost in
(trip location inserted here) back in June 2021.
Apologies, as over the weeks, I've given in to the fact the items must have been in
one of the bags, as they are not here or in my 2 cases.
Mr M went on to explain that he was planning a trip in August 2021. He concluded:
So in preparation I've went through my belongings again and these items are
definitely gone.
I understand if this is too long a gap to now add on to my ongoing claim, but felt it
prudent to ask now I'm 99.99% sure they are missing.
Mr M reported the additional items to the police as soon as he received a response from R
on 27 July 2021. I appreciate that Mr M says he experiences some side effects from the
medication he takes which can affect his concentration. But I dont think Mr M has provided a
persuasive account to prove the loss of these items are related to the claim he made in June
2021. It seems he believes as he hasnt been able to find them since the trip, they must have
been lost. I dont think its clear that Mr M is sure these items were packed for his trip. So I
dont think Ageas needs to include these additional items in the claim Im asking it to deal
with.
My final decision
In line with my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas to deal with Mr Ms claim for the items he reported as lost on 15 June 2021 in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman