DRN-3671274
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports coupe car, made by a well-
known car-maker and first registered in 2016. It had an automatic transmission.
In July 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with UKI.
Mr S reported to UKI that, on 20 July 2021, his had car hit a defect in the road surface, 
causing damage to the cars entertainment screen and its gearbox.
In early August 2021, UKI arranged collection of the car. It arranged inspections at a number 
of garages. UKI concluded that the gearbox problem wasnt related to the incident with the 
pothole. UKI arranged for the car to be returned to Mr S in about October 2021 without 
repair.
Mr S complained to UKI that it should meet his claim.
In early November 2021, Mr S engaged a specialist garage, which said his car needed a 
new mechatronics gearbox unit.
UKI wrote a letter to Mr S dated late November 2021, declining his claim. At about the same 
time, UKI sent an email to Mr S telling him of his right to bring his complaint to us.
In January 2022, Mr S engaged a garage franchised by the car-maker. It replaced the 
mechatronics unit. It also noted a buckled front alloy wheel.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in early February 2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
UKI had acted reasonably.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He has sent us photographs taken before and after the repairs to the road defect. 
Colliding with this defect caused instant gearbox failure.
He asks why did UKI take the vehicle away knowing they do not fix 'mechanical 
issues' even when explicitly notified there was only a gearbox fault & entertainment 
system fault reported.
He asked UKIs engineer the likelihood that a mechatronics unit simply fails at 23,000 
miles, especially when the car maker recommends a gearbox service at 40,000 
miles. The engineer showed hesitation. 
In total it took 8 months for the issues to be fixed, 4 months of which the vehicle was 
with UKI.
Two or three of UKI's garages missed a buckled alloy and returned his vehicle this 
way. UKI's negligence could have led to a catastrophic failure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks into an induvial consumers complaint about an 
unfair act or omission by a regulated financial firm. Where we find an unfair act or omission, 
we look at its actual impact on that consumer. We assess compensation by reference to that 
impact. We dont assess compensation by reference to the potential impact of the act or 
omission, even if it is unsafe.
Like most motor policies, UKIs policy covered damage to the car, but it didnt cover  
mechanical or electrical failure.
Mr S was making a claim that his had car hit a defect in the road, causing damage to the 
cars infotainment screen and its gearbox. So I dont find it unreasonable that UKI took the 
car for inspection. 
I keep in mind the involvement of several garages. So I dont find that UKI took longer than 
reasonable to deal with the claim.
The recorded mileage of the car was about 25,000. UKIs engineer has said that the gearbox 
fault is common on this model of car.
None of UKIs garages noted a buckled front wheel. They didnt consider that an incident 
with a pothole had caused the issues with the gearbox and infotainment screen.
In early 2022, Mr S borrowed money to pay for a new mechatronics unit. Ive noted the 
franchised dealers repair invoice dated late January 2022. It mentions a badly buckled 
nearside front wheel. That is consistent with an impact with a pothole. 
But  even if UKI had missed a buckled front wheel  a damaged wheel doesnt show that 
impact with a pothole in July 2021 caused damage to the wheel or the gearbox or the 
infotainment screen. 
Mr S hadnt been able to pay for a repair to the buckled wheel (or infotainment screen) but 
he described the car as usable from early February 2022, before he traded it in with a 
dealer.
In my view, Mr S has fallen well short of showing that the incident in July 2021 had caused 
the issues with the gearbox and infotainment screen. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to meet the claim or to pay compensation or to do any more in response to this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman