DRN-4232902
The complaint
Mr B complained about the service provided by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) 
in December 2021, when he was unable to complete a share purchase as a result of IISL not 
having a record of his National Insurance number (NINO).
What happened
Mr B held an execution-only trading account on IISLs online investment platform which 
offered the option to buy and sell shares.
When he complained to IISL about not being able to trade on 20 December 2021, IISL 
upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. It said, in summary, that it had provided incorrect 
information when one of IISLs call handlers had told Mr B on 30 December 2021 that it had 
received his form with the NINO that Mr B had posted to IISL on 23 December 2021. IISL 
hadnt received that form and they confirmed this to Mr B in writing on 18 January 2022. 
By way of an apology for this error, IISL credited Mr Bs trading account with £30. 
IISL didnt however uphold any of Mr Bs other complaints and, in particular, said:
his NINO was required by law before he could use his account to buy or sell 
investments on IISLs platform
IISL couldnt complete full security checks for Mr B over the phone - this wasnt 
possible as Mr B hadnt registered a mobile phone with IISL so they couldnt send 
him a four digit security code to verify identity.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and he complained to us about five main issues 
which he put as follows:
On 20 December 2021, when Mr B had phoned IISL to instruct a trade, IISL halted 
a share purchase when the transaction was almost complete because they didnt 
have a record of his NINO and wouldnt accept this over the phone
IISL hadnt told Mr B in advance that they needed his NINO in order to be able to 
place a trade
his previous platform provider hadnt required this and he didnt accept the reason 
IISL said it was required
IISL was unfairly restricting Mr Bs ability to trade as it didnt have a mobile phone 
number for him
IISL had failed to address his complaint satisfactorily.
When our investigator looked into what happened, he initially thought that IISL had 
provided a reasonable level of service overall and didnt need to do anything further. 
Following consideration of Mr Bs further representations however, he was persuaded that 
IISL shouldve done more to give Mr B advance warning that it would require his NINO in 
order to be able to trade on his account. He recommended that IISL should pay Mr B an 
amount of £50 for the inconvenience this caused Mr B when he discovered he was unable 
to trade on 20 December 2021. The investigator didnt feel however that any further 
redress was owed.  
IISL agreed to pay Mr B in line with the investigators recommendation. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. His main concerns were that:
the increased share price since 20 December 2021 means the investment he had 
planned that day would now cost significantly more
had the share purchase gone ahead on 20 December 2021 he wouldve 
subsequently had an opportunity to sell at profit
at the time, he was still waiting for IISL to send him another form and pre-paid 
envelope for him to provide his NINO information.
There was further correspondence between Mr B and IISL  he asked IISL directly to 
provide further redress. IISL declined to compensate for hypothetical loss. Mr B also 
raised a further complaint about IISLs response to his enquiry about what happened to the 
cash that remained in his account when the planned trade didnt go ahead on 20 December 
2021.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.I appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about this complaint. Whilst Ive summarised in my own 
words the way hes set out his concerns and some of whats been said over the course of 
correspondence, I want to assure Mr B that Ive considered everything that impacts on my 
decision. We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way 
Ive approached the complaint. I am aware that Mr B hasnt always agreed with the way the 
investigator reflected some of the complaint issues but its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This 
means I wont necessarily mention everything Mr B has brought to my attention as the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address everything mentioned on a point by point basis. And 
I am not proposing to respond directly to questions Mr B has posed  I am not required to do 
this as part of my remit and this isnt the purpose of an ombudsman decision. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. I will however set out and address everything that affects the 
outcome of Mr Bs complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr B was concerned about why IISL told him it required his NINO but I cant 
fairly say it made any error or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it told him on 
20 December 2021 that it required his NINO before it could execute his planned trade. I say 
this because:
a persons NINO is used not just for national insurance purposes  it is used for tax 
purposes (as part of IISLs HM Revenue and Customs reporting regulations) and 
investment platforms ask for a NINO as they are required by law to do this before 
someone can trade on their platform - theres more information about this in the 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ll.
Each persons NINO is a unique identifier and so can help combat fraud. 
Mr B conducted his dealings with IISL by phone using a landline. IISL explained that 
without a mobile phone contact number which wouldve enabled IISL to verify that 
information was coming directly from Mr B, he needed to complete its form and 
provide supporting evidence of his NINO - such as a payslip or P60, or letter from the 
tax or pension authorities. This seems reasonable to me as it should be relatively 
straightforward for someone to provide this evidence of their own NINO (and 
correspondingly more difficult for a fraudster to provide this information). So IISLs 
requirements helped to protect Mr Bs money  which was clearly in his best 
interests. 
It makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint that Mr B has said a previous 
platform provider allowed him to trade without having his NINO on record  Im just 
looking at whether IISL acted fairly and reasonably. 
Its unfortunate that IISL didnt ever receive the completed form with his NINO details 
that Mr B sent on 23 December 2021, but I think its likely that the combination of 
extra Christmas post and public holidays around that time mightve led to this being 
lost in transit. I cant fairly say that not receiving the form was IISLs fault. And IISL 
has confirmed it sent at least one further form to Mr B for him to complete and return 
around the time it responded to his complaint in January 2022. I think its fair to say it 
was open to Mr B to chase this up with IISL if he was still waiting for a form to arrive 
as Id expect him to have done if he was anxious to place a trade. As he hasnt 
mentioned this further in more recent correspondence, Im assuming this issue has 
since been resolved and Mr B wouldnt still find he was prevented from placing a 
trade he wanted to execute.  
IISL has already agreed that it could have done more to make Mr B aware that just 
having the account open wasnt enough and hed need to have his NINO on record 
with IISL in order to be able to trade on his account. So I dont think I need to say 
more about this.Ive concentrated on what redress is fair in this situation. 
I can completely understand that it was an unwelcome surprise to Mr B to find out, just as he 
was ready to trade on 20 December 2021, that IISL couldnt accept his instructions to buy 
the shares he hoped to invest in. 
It was entirely up to Mr B to choose whether to register a mobile phone number on his IISL 
account. But Im mindful that IISL couldve registered his NINO straightaway if Mr B had 
provided a mobile phone number as part of his contact details. And IISL provided a 
reasonable alternative for those customers, like Mr B, who hadnt set up their account to take 
advantage of the additional features enabled by operating their account via a mobile phone. 
So I find the £50 payment it has agreed for this is fair compensation. This amount is in line 
with the level of award I consider fair in these particular circumstances to reflect the extent 
and impact on Mr B of IISL having failed to tell Mr B sooner that hed need to provide his 
NINO. 
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr B makes about having lost out financially as a 
result of not being able to invest as hed hoped to do on 20 December 2021. 
The information Ive seen suggests the cash remained in his account for many months after 
his planned trade was frustrated on 20 December 2021, and long after the issue with his 
NINO couldve been sorted out. And Mr B has said that he couldve bought and sold at profit 
before the shares he wanted to buy subsequently became much more expensive. Hes also 
said that even if hed bought the shares on 20 December 2021:
he didnt have a target price for selling, 
hes not a frequent trader and didnt need the proceeds for reinvestment, 
he didnt need to sell shares to pay bills and
he doesnt transact online and the problems hes had arranging trades over the 
phone have put him off phoning to sell shares.
Mr B asks me to consider that this all suggests he wouldnt have sold any shares hed been 
able to buy on 20 December 2021. But, in those circumstances, the value of his holding 
wouldnt have crystallised  the value could still go up or down  so this still wouldnt be 
enough for me to say hed lost out in money terms.   
On balance, I dont feel I've seen enough to find that Mr B has made an investment loss as a 
direct result of IISL not having told him that it needed his NINO before he could trade or that 
IISL is responsible for loss of investment opportunity. So I dont consider it would be fair to 
tell IISL to make any additional payment here or take any further steps to put things right, 
beyond paying the £50 compensation mentioned above. 
For the avoidance of doubt, in my decision I've dealt only with those issues that were part of 
the original complaint Mr B referred to us. If Mr B is unable to reach an agreed resolution in 
respect of any further complaint issues, he can bring those to this service after IISL has first 
had an opportunity to respond, if he remains dissatisfied. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr B hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B has sent me extensive and detailed representations in repsonse to my provisional 
decision. Amongst other things, and just in very brief summary here:
he particularly wants to make clear that he had the NINO information IISL required on 
20 December 2021 and it was IISL that wasnt able to accept it 
hes outlined a number of different ways he says IISL could have verified his indentity 
on 20 December 2021, even though he didnt have a mobile phone
he doesnt feel I have properly understood or reflected in my award the full impact on 
him of what he describes as the hassle of his dealings with IISL concerning his 
complaint 
he sold the shares on 26 January 2023 and crystallised the profit
hes raised a query about whether IISL was in breach of contract when it failed to 
carry through the share purchase on 20 December 2021
hes mentioned that hes put IISL on notice of his intention to commence court 
proceedings. 
IISL hasnt sent me any further comments and the deadline for responses has now passed 
so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr B for responding to my provisional decision. As he says, his four letters have given 
me plenty to think about. 
Although I've only very briefly summarised some of the main points mentioned, Id like to 
assure Mr B that Ive carefully read and considered everything hes sent me before coming 
to my final decision.
In answer to Mr Bs query about whether IISL broke its contract, just to be clear, its not for 
me to legally determine whether or not theres been a breach of contract in law, in the same 
way that a court or tribunal would do. Its outside the purview of our service as an alternative 
dispute resolution service and beyond my role as an ombudsman.So far as Mr Bs other comments are concerned, Mr B hasnt provided me with any new 
information that changes what I think about this case. Id already considered all the main 
points hes mentioned when thinking about my provisional decision. I have addressed in my 
provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the outcome. I appreciate that 
Mr B takes a different view to me. But I have concluded overall that:
I havent seen enough to persuade me that I can fairly or reasonably hold IISL 
responsible for any financial loss as I dont find that Mr B was unable to complete his 
planned trade on 20 December 2021 because IISL made any error or acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when it required him to have his  NINO registered on his account. 
I still think its fair to award the amount of compensation I proposed in my provisional 
decision, for the reasons I set out and explained more fully in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
IISL should pay Mr B the amount of £50 as it agreed to do following the investigators 
recommendation. To be clear, in awarding this payment, I've taken into account the £30 
credit IISL previously made to Mr Bs trading account and the £50 payment I have directed 
is in addition to the £30 credit previously made to his account.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Interactive Investor Services Limited to take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman