DRN-2357809
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan provided by AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit). And 
about the details they gave a third party when they purchased his debt.
What happened
In January 2015, Mr S took out a loan of £3,900 with AvantCredit. The loan was repayable 
over 60 months. Mr S fell into difficulty repaying this loan and the outstanding balance was 
sold to a third-party debt purchaser.
Mr S previously complained to this service about how AvantCredit handled his loan account, 
and the debt being sold to a third party when he fell into financial difficulty. But he now 
complains AvantCredit acted irresponsibly in lending to him as the loan shouldnt have been 
agreed at the time, he took it out as he couldnt afford it. He complained to AvantCredit.
AvantCredit agreed they shouldnt have lent to Mr S. And to put things right they said they 
would remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr S credit file. They would 
also apply 8% simple interest to payments made by Mr S to them. Once theyd calculated 
the simple interest due, theyd amend the outstanding balance of Mr S loan at the time of 
sale and provide this to the third-party debt purchaser. AvantCredit also offered an additional 
£200 in compensation. They said the amounts would be deducted from the principal amount 
borrowed as this had yet to be repaid.
Mr S wasnt happy with AvantCredits response. He said that any refund should be paid back 
to him and not deducted from the principle amount. And that the compensation offer they 
made of £200 was too low. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that some points that Mr S was complaining about had been 
considered in a previous complaint to this service. She also said as AvantCredit had agreed 
that the loan had been unaffordable she wouldnt consider this part of Mr S complaint. But 
she had looked at whether AvantCredit had acted fairly and reasonably in putting this right. 
She didnt think there was any detriment to Mr S by his redress being deducted from the 
amount he still owed rather than being paid directly back to him. So, she didnt recommend 
that Mr S complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S has brought several complaint points to us, including how AvantCredit handled his loan 
when he was in financial difficulty, and the way his debt was sold to a third-party debt 
purchaser. Mr S thinks the loan should have been written off. But these complaint points 
have been considered in a previous decision. And under the rules set by the financial 
services regulator, our service may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits where 
dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of the examples given of such a 
complaint is where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant). Ive not seen any new evidence in relation to these specific complaint 
points, so I wont comment further.
The main crux of Mr S complaint now is that the loan was unaffordable, and so AvantCredit 
had been irresponsible in lending to him. I can see that AvantCredit has accepted this. So, in 
reaching my decision I will only be considering whether AvantCredit has acted fairly and 
reasonably in how they have put things right for Mr S.
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr S has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. But I would look to: 
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr S account from when it was opened;
treat any payments that Mr S has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this 
results in Mr S having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should 
be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr S plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from date of payment to date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information on Mr S credit file in relation to this loan.
Avant Credit has shown that they have applied our approach to the redress for Mr S. The 
principle amount was £3900, they have removed any interest and charges. So are only 
looking at Mr S paying back the money he originally borrowed. Mr S had repaid AvantCredit   
a total of £1,126.24 before his debt was sold. This would have left a principle amount of 
£2,773.76 still to be repaid. AvantCredit had applied 8% simple interest to the repayments 
made by Mr S, thereby reducing the amount further to £2566.58. So, Im satisfied that Avant 
Credit have put things right as I would have expected. 
AvantCredit has gone further in offering £200 in compensation and applied this to Mr S 
outstanding balance reducing this to £2366.58. I understand Mr S frustration as he thinks  
any refund should be paid direct to him and not used to reduce the amount he still owed. But 
Mr S hasnt yet repaid the original amount that he borrowed and by reducing the outstanding 
balance I dont think there has been any detriment to Mr S. So, I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable for AvantCredit to take this action.
When Avant Credit sold the debt to the third-party debt purchaser, the outstanding balance 
they said was £4131.28 as this included interest and charges. And Mr S has disagreed with 
this figure stating he was told the outstanding balance was less than this. But AvantCredit 
has said theyve now advised the debt purchaser of their revised calculation which is solely 
based on the principle amount. And so any payments Mr S has made to the debt purchaser 
should be taken from the revised outstanding balance of £2366.58. 
Mr S has asked for the details of the loan to be removed from his credit file. As I outlined 
above, we would look to ask AvantCredit to remove any adverse information relating to the 
loan, not the details of the loan itself. AvantCredit has a responsibility to provide accurate 
information about Mr S financial history.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but I think AvantCredit has acted fairly and 
reasonably in how theyve put right his complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman