DRN-3184410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the options Great Lakes Insurance SE provided them with, 
when they contacted it about their travel insurance policy. Mr and Mrs O said they werent 
able to use part of their policy due to coronavirus restrictions  and that the offers made to 
them to recognise this werent fair.
What happened
On 13 January 2020, Mr and Mrs O purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays taken worldwide. The policy included cover for nine declared 
medical conditions, and the policy start date was set as 14 January 2020, with the end date 
being 13 January 2021. 
The total premium for this policy was £1,164.67. The premium was being paid monthly  with 
an initial deposit of £103.87 paid, and then the same amount being paid in monthly 
instalments. 
Mr and Mrs O have noted that they did have a trip booked, to visit their family abroad, with 
them being due to depart on the trip on 26 May 2020. But, because of the pandemic, and the 
impact this had on travel, the airline contacted them and said they could either have a 
refund, move their trip dates or be provided with a voucher for the cost of the flight. Given 
these options, Mr and Mrs O altered their travel dates, rescheduling for September 2020.
However, theyve said that in June 2020 it became clear to them their trip was unlikely to go 
ahead in September 2020 as the airline were offering the same options again  and 
therefore they were considering moving their trip dates, to spring 2021. 
Before making a decision on whether to move their trip, Mr and Mrs O wanted to know what 
options they had in respect of their travel insurance policy. They said theyd become aware 
of offers being made to Great Lakes customers on single trip insurance policies, which 
allowed the cover to be deferred. And they wanted to know what options they had for their 
annual multi-trip policy.
With this in mind, Mr and Mrs O contacted Great Lakes on 23 June 2020, and said theyd 
seen the above offer, but couldnt find any information on the options for those holding 
annual multi-trip policies. Great Lakes responded to this and noted that Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt be able to transfer, suspend or freeze their policy. But that the following options 
were available;
To receive a pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the 
price of 12, at the current market rates, or;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This being a 12-month 
policy also at the current market rates  with the option to choose a start date for the 
cover, within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree this was fair. The policy was kept active, with a need for the 
premiums to still be paid for cover to continue. Unhappy with the position, Mr and Mrs O 
raised a complaint about the matter. 
Great Lakes responded to the complaint. It noted Mr and Mrs Os request for their original 
travel insurance policy to be paused or extended  but said this wasnt something it would 
offer. Instead, it considered another option  the cancelling of the original policy and what it 
could do in respect of that. 
It noted that Mr and Mrs O had contacted it after the initial 14-day cooling off period the 
policy provided, and that its terms stated no refund would be provided outside of this 14-day 
period. It said that Mr and Mrs O had the benefit of cover since they purchased it. 
But it said that it recognised customers were facing uncertain times, and it was willing to 
provide some temporary solutions  which went over and above its policy terms. These were 
to cancel the original policy, with the opportunity for Mr and Mrs O to then;
Receive a pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price 
of 12, at the current market rates, or;
Receive a pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This being a 12-
month policy also at the current market rates  with the option to choose a start date 
for the cover, within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
Have the ability to use the new policy for covering a UK only annual multi-trip policy. 
With the potential to upgrade the destination at a later date, subject to terms and 
conditions.
Great Lakes noted the above options were available until 20 August 2020. 
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with this. They cancelled their monthly direct debit for the 
policy, and so when an attempt to collect the monthly payment was attempted on 17 August 
2020 this was unsuccessful. Great Lakes has said the policy was then automatically 
cancelled on 2 September 2020, for non-payment of premium. 
Because Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with Great Lakes position on the matter, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review. When referring their 
complaint to this service they reiterated their concern that single trip travel insurance 
policyholders were able to extend their policies, but as annual multi-trip customers they 
hadnt been provided with that same opportunity. In addition to this, Mr and Mrs O noted that 
they hadnt had the benefit of their insurance policy, from 17 March 2020, when they said the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel. 
In Great Lakes submissions it said that although the above credit voucher options also 
included in its complaint response were available to annual multi-trip policyholders, which 
had included Mr and Mrs O, Mr and Mrs O had been paying the policy in monthly 
instalments, and these had stopped. So, they said Mr and Mrs O had only paid for time on 
risk, and no pro-rata voucher to use towards a new policy was due to them. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint. They didnt comment on the offer made to single 
trip policyholders, that Mr and Mrs O raised. But they considered the approach Great Lakes 
had acted taken, which was considering cancellation of the policy, and felt it had acted fairly 
in the circumstances. 
The adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied 
in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. The adjudicator said that this meant its not unreasonable for 
an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The adjudicator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 14 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled.
 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated from the date 
the policy was cancelled, to be used either to buy a new 15-month policy, a 12-month 
deferred start date policy or a UK only policy was fair. But they said that this wasnt actually 
due to Mr and Mrs O, because they had paid for their policy in monthly instalments, and so 
had only paid for the time they were on risk. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion. They said;
Great Lakes wasnt covering any risk under their policy from the 17 March 2020;
They hadnt asked for their policy to be cancelled, or for a refund of any premium to 
be given. Instead, they had wanted to know why they were being treated differently to 
those with single trip travel insurance policies.
They cancelled the policy on 2 September 2020, as the policy wasnt providing them 
with any cover.
As Mr and Mrs O remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case, detailing my thoughts. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. Ive explained the reasons why 
below. 
Mr and Mrs O have explained that the key part of their complaint, is that they werent offered 
to pause or extend their original travel insurance policy, so that this could be used at a later 
date. Theyve seen that if their policy had been a single trip one, rather than an annual multi-
trip, they would have been able to do this too  and feel theyve been treated differently and 
therefore unfairly, because of the policy they purchased.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs O that I understand this is the crux of the matter. And, I have 
addressed this in my reasoning. But Ive needed to do so whilst also explaining the wider 
context of my decision.
Generally, following the purchase of a travel insurance policy such as Mr and Mrs Os, the 
policy runs from its start date  in this case 14 January 2020, until the end date, being 13 
January 2021. This is the contract agreed to between both parties at the time of purchase 
and is therefore set as such. 
A policy such as this doesnt usually provide an option part-way through for it to be paused, 
transferred or extended. And, looking at Mr and Mrs Os policy documents, there isnt 
anything within it, which says Mr and Mrs O would be able to transfer, pause or extend the policy in this case either. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes hasnt acted against its policy terms 
in not agreeing to pause, extend or transfer the policy based on the contract agreed.
Instead, if a policyholder no longer wishes to use their policy within the dates they have 
purchased it for, the way in which this would be dealt with, is through a cancellation of the 
policy. Given this, I can see why Great Lakes has considered cancellation in this instance. 
There are rules, regulations and law surrounding the area of cancelling a policy. Our 
adjudicator identified and set these out. I agree those are relevant considerations which 
apply to the circumstances of this case. So, I wont repeat those in detail again here. 
Mr and Mrs Os policy also does provide information on cancellation of the policy. It says;
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your policy documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to 
make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Whilst Mr and Mrs O didnt ask for the policy to be cancelled, Im satisfied it was right for 
Great Lakes to consider cancellation, given the above. But Mr and Mrs O contacted Great 
Lakes outside the 14 day cooling-off period, and so there is no requirement under the 
relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs O for 
any part of the policy. 
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs O wanted 
to defer their travel insurance policy, or at least receive some funds back from it. 
But I dont think their reasons reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
But Ive taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. And having done so, I do think Great Lakes approach is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs O were insured from 14 January 2020, when policy started, until it was 
cancelled. This was in fact cancelled by Great Lakes because of non-payment of premium 
on 2 September 2020. In July 2020 Mr and Mrs O had asked for the premium to remain 
active  but subsequently cancelled the direct debit. So, Mr and Mrs O were covered for any number of trips they took, up to 50 days in duration. 
Mr and Mrs O have agreed they were being provided with the benefit of cover until 17 March 
2020. But said they werent being provided with cover after this, due to global restrictions of 
travel. But I dont agree. Whether Mr and Mrs O went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were 
covering the risk of a claim occurring. And whilst Mr and Mrs O didnt need to make a claim  
that doesnt mean cover wasnt there for various risks. And the premiums charged to them 
reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont do anything 
differently in respect of the policy before it was cancelled for non-payment. 
Once the policy was cancelled, Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy 
from that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus are unique and unprecedented, I 
think it would have been fair for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund from the date of 
cancellation, until the end date of the policy on 13 January 2021, if it had received any 
premium for this part of the cover. 
Im satisfied this is what it communicated to Mr and Mrs O, by noting to them that they could 
receive a pro-rata credit (should they have kept on paying the policy), to use on a new 15 
month policy, a new 12 month policy with a deferred start date, or on a policy covering trips 
in the UK. 
Mr and Mrs O have said the above wasnt fair  and that if theyd purchased a single trip 
insurance policy, they would have been offered the opportunity to defer their original policy.
Theyve said theyve been treated differently, and unfairly to other customers, and noted this 
is against the industry standards  which say a firm must pay due regard to their customers 
and treat them fairly.
Ive thought carefully about this. But this isnt the same policy as Mr and Mrs Os, and it 
works differently. So, I dont think its reasonable to compare the two in this case.
Instead I must consider whether Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs O differently, and 
therefore unfairly, to other policyholders with the same circumstances of them. That being 
customers with an annual multi-trip insurance policy too. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Great Lakes approach in this case, is treating Mr and Mrs O differently to other policyholders 
with an annual multi-trip policy. 
I do also think Great Lakes has given due regard to Mr and Mrs Os circumstances, by being 
willing to go over and above the industry rules, regulations and law with regards to 
cancellation  taking into account the circumstances of Covid-19. And theres no right under 
the policy for it to be paused, extended or transferred. So, I dont think it has acted against 
industry standards. 
As above, Great Lakes hasnt received any premium for cover once the policy was cancelled 
in this case and so there is nothing for Great Lakes to provide in terms of a pro-rata refund. 
And therefore, I dont currently require it to do anything more.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs O did and explained they 
didnt agree. In summary they said that;
The 14-day cooling off period referenced in my provisional decision is a legal 
requirement;
The circumstances of coronavirus were exceptional, and considered as such, for example by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA);
The FCA had issued guidance to highlight that insurers should act fairly, and 
consider how the coronavirus pandemic affected the value of the products provided;
Great Lakes didnt go above industry rules in this case;
Great Lakes hadnt acted fairly as they considered that Great Lakes didnt carry any 
risk from 20 March 2020  given the government coronavirus restrictions, and that 
the policy notes losses should be recovered from elsewhere first if possible;
Great Lakes had treated Annual and Single Trip policyholders differently, and 
therefore treated them unfairly;
The offers made to annual policyholders were also being provided to other customers 
 such as new customers. And Mr and Mrs O considered this a marketing ploy to 
retain premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs O. Its clear they feel strongly about the matter. But Id again like to reassure them that 
Ive considered everything provided by the parties to this service afresh, including their most 
recent representations, when arriving at my final decision. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs O feel that Great Lakes has kept premiums for a period in time when 
they werent being covered under the policy. And they consider Great Lakes hasnt acted in 
line with FCA guidance to treat customers fairly, taking into account Coronavirus. 
But Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly. And that it hasnt kept any premiums 
unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs O are correct in noting the 14-day cooling-off period is a legal requirement. But 
Mr and Mrs O didnt cancel their policy in this 14-day period. And so, from this point, there is 
no requirement under the relevant industry rules or guidelines for Mr and Mrs O to be 
provided with a refund. The premium for the policy year is due on that basis.
Mr and Mrs Os policy does provide Great Lakes with discretion though, to provide a refund 
after the 14-day period, in what it notes as exceptional circumstances. Mr and Mrs O have 
noted that the pandemic was exceptional. And referenced the FCA noting these were 
exceptional and unprecedented times. Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Os point here.
But what is considered to be exceptional, needs to be considered in the context of the 
insurance policy. And I dont think the term in Mr and Mrs Os policy, which relates to 
discretion, is intended to cover the global pandemic. The pandemic affected all 
policyholders. And the examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy are one 
off, specific events for the particular policyholder  such as a bereavement or change in the 
policyholders health. So, Im satisfied the policy term here doesnt mean a refund was due 
to Mr and Mrs O.
However, when considering this complaint, I have considered the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances of the coronavirus pandemic and thought about whether Great Lakes acted 
reasonably in light of this. And I think it did.Great Lakes went above the strict 14-day standard, and above its policy terms.  It agreed to 
provide Mr and Mrs O with a pro-rata refund, in the form of a voucher, in light of the fact they 
were no longer travelling due to the pandemic. It offered to do this from when the policy was 
cancelled, until the original end date of the policy, on 13 January 2020, to take into account 
that there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from the point of cancellation.
I agree this was a reasonable offer. Great Lakes were no longer on risk when the policy was 
cancelled, and no claims had been made under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs O accept they should pay the premium for time on risk. But they consider that 
the time they were on risk was considerably shorter. Mr and Mrs O said they were on risk 
under the policy from 14 January 2020, until March 2020, when the government restrictions 
came into force. And so, they feel any refund from be from March 2020 onwards. 
But I dont agree. Until the policy was cancelled Great Lakes were covering the risk of a 
claim occurring. And this could have been any number of claims, for various risks, given the 
way annual multi-trip policies work. This would include things such as cancellation due to 
policyholder ill health or a covered bereavement. As well as the ability to claim if recovery 
elsewhere hadnt been possible. The premiums charged to Mr and Mrs O reflected this. So, 
Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont do anything differently in respect 
of the policy before it was cancelled for non-payment.
After the policy was cancelled for non-payment, Mr and Mrs O werent paying for the time 
not on risk. So, nothing further is due to them from that point onwards either.
Mr and Mrs O have noted that the FCA issued guidance to note that insurers should 
consider the value of the product being provided and should act fairly towards their 
customers. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O dont think Great Lakes has acted in line with this. But 
Im satisfied that Great Lakes have. The above offer made by Great Lakes takes into 
account the value of the product  so the fact that Great Lakes were offering cover under the 
policy until it was cancelled, but not after. And Im satisfied the offer was fair, for the reasons 
noted above, and within my provisional decision.,
Mr and Mrs O have reiterated their concerns about the offer provided to single trip 
policyholders, in comparison to the offer they received. And theyve mentioned offers theyve 
said were given to new customers.
But as noted in my provisional decision, I dont consider the offer provided to Mr and Mrs O 
to be unfair. Single trip policies, and they way they work are different to annual multi-trip 
policies, where any numbers of trips can be booked, and taken, instead of the one holiday, 
on the one date. As the single and annual trip policies are different, I dont think its fair to 
compare the two in this case. I also dont consider any offer made to new customers to alter 
the outcome of Mr and Mrs Os complaint. That is a different situation again.
Rather, Ive considered whether Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs O differently, and therefore 
unfairly, in relation to other policyholders in the same circumstances as them. That being 
policyholders with annual multi-trip insurance too. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
Great Lakes approach here, is treating Mr and Mrs O differently to other policyholders with 
an annual multi-trip policy. Had Mr and Mrs O continued to pay their premium, and therefore 
received a voucher, the terms of the voucher, provided to annual multi-trip policyholders werent unreasonably restrictive. They allowed a number of options, including enabling Mr 
and Mrs O to take the same holiday, just at a later date. 
In conclusion, I do think Great Lakes has given due regard to Mr and Mrs Os circumstances, 
and gone over and above the industry rules, regulations and law with regards to 
cancellation, given the circumstances of Covid-19, and guidance issued to insurers at this 
time. And, there is no right under the policy for it be to paused, extended or transferred. So, I 
dont think it has acted against industry standards, or unfairly. 
Great Lakes hasnt received any premium for cover once the policy was cancelled in this 
case and so there is nothing for Great Lakes to provide in terms of a pro-rata refund. And 
therefore, I dont currently require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman