DRN-2958494
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim under his buildings 
insurance for storm damage to his roof.
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his policy after several roof tiles were dislodged during strong 
winds, damaging further tiles on the roof below. Avivas inspection of the roof from ground 
level concluded that the tiles had de-bonded which is why they came away cleanly. It 
declined the claim under the policy exclusion of wear and tear and advised Mr T to have the 
remainder of the tiles re-bedded.
Mr Ts independent roofer replaced the tiles and provided a written report saying they had 
been dislodged by a storm. Although uneven, the roofer said thats how theyd been 
cemented down in the first place. Mr T asked Aviva to pay for his repairs, which totalled a 
little over £1000. Aviva declined his claim.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had handled Mr Ts claim fairly. She thought the roofers 
assessment was more persuasive than Avivas ground level assessment and recommended 
that Aviva consider the claim under the remaining policy terms. Our investigator also thought 
Aviva should pay interest on the settlement and £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Aviva disagreed for the following reasons:
although completed from the ground, its report showed close-up images of the mortar 
deterioration, with no sign of recent maintenance;
consideration hadnt been given to whether windspeeds met the policy definition of a 
storm;
the policy didnt include accidental damage, so the roof damaged by falling tiles 
wouldnt be covered;
visual images of the roof and neighbouring properties from 2012 show discolouration 
and signs of ageing, and
the roofers report confirms the tiles were fitted irregularly, which brings the quality of 
the original cementing into question.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
Mr Ts claim was for storm damage, and I can see that his policy provides cover as follows:
The Buildings 
We will provide cover for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by any of the following:
2. Storm or Flood.
We will not cover loss or damage:
that happens gradually.
This tells me that Mr Ts home was covered for storm damage but not for any damage which 
was mainly due to wear and tear (happened gradually).
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators view because it didnt think there was evidence of a 
storm. When considering a complaint about a claim for storm damage, I must first decide 
whether the evidence shows that there was a storm. If so, Id go on to consider whether the 
damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm and whether the storm was the 
main cause of the damage. So, Ive first looked at whether there was a storm. 
Unfortunately, the policy doesnt define a storm, and for that reason Ive looked at reliable 
weather data sites alongside the evidence Mr T provided to determine the conditions on the 
day of the damage. Both sets of evidence give the same information, which is that there was 
a peak gust of wind reaching a speed of 37mph. Over the whole day, wind speeds varied 
between 15mph and 35mph with most hours of the day being under 25mph.
To put this into perspective, UK weather authorities describe windspeeds up to 18mph as a 
gentle breeze. Speeds up to 31mph are described as a strong breeze, such that it might be 
difficult to use an umbrella. The conditions throughout most of the day fell within these two 
descriptions.
Focusing on the maximum gust of wind recorded on the day (37mph), UK weather 
authorities describe this as a moderate gale, where one might experience inconvenience 
walking and see large trees swaying. Its not until a windspeed of 47mph is reached that 
slight structural damage might be expected, including roof tiles removed.
Ive given a lot of information here about the windspeed - thats because I wanted to be clear 
about why I dont think the evidence supports Mr Ts claim for storm damage. Im not 
doubting that his roof tiles came off in the wind, but the evidence suggests that the 
windspeed wasnt strong enough to be the main reason for that. Therefore, Im more 
persuaded by Avivas report about the roof condition being the main reason the tiles 
dislodged. 
While the roof doesnt look as though its badly deteriorated, the fact that tiles came loose 
during a brief, moderate gale suggests that the wind simply revealed an existing need for 
repair. That is, but for the condition of the roof, its unlikely the tiles wouldve dislodged in the 
wind.
Ive thought about the location of Mr Ts home in relation to the weather station where the 
maximum gust of wind was recorded, because I realise that the conditions wouldnt have 
been identical. The weather station is in an exposed location eight miles from Mr Ts home. 
Mr Ts home is surrounded by other houses, all of which appear to have been built around 
the same time. So, its likely that the roof tiles will be of a similar age and condition. This 
might explain why neighbouring properties also lost roof tiles during the strong winds and 
goes some way to explaining why Mr Ts newer extension roof wasnt affected by the wind.
Returning to Avivas reason for declining Mr Ts claim, I think the evidence supports its view 
that the roof tiles were dislodged mainly because of wear and tear. Thats because I havent 
seen any evidence that there were winds strong enough to be classed as a storm which 
wouldve caused the damage. Therefore, I think Aviva fairly declined Mr Ts claim for the 
reason it gave.
I said I wasnt intending to ask Aviva to settle the claim or pay compensation and I didnt 
uphold the complaint.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva didnt offer any further comment or information.
Mr T responded to say that the roofer who worked on his home didnt get back to him after 
he asked for a rough map of the neighbouring properties also affected by the wind. Mr T 
thinks the roofer worked on around six or seven other houses affected by a localised 
tornado, which wouldnt have been picked up by the weather station, and they cant all be 
blamed on the condition of the roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, Im not doubting that the roof tiles were dislodged by the 
wind. However, I cant fairly say that Aviva should settle the claim without evidence that the 
wind was anything more than a moderate gale. In the absence of that evidence, I think its 
reasonable that Aviva declined the claim. 
Aviva relied on the available evidence that suggested Mr Ts roof showed signs of wear and 
tear and it thought the roof tiles were dislodged in the wind mainly because of the mortar 
deterioration. As neighbouring houses showed similar signs of wear and tear, then its not 
unreasonable to think they would also have experienced similar damage. But my focus is on 
how Aviva handled Mr Ts claim for his roof, and Im satisfied that it was reasonable for it to 
rely on the available evidence. 
Mr T asked whether his roof is insured at all but thats not something I can answer. His policy 
provides cover against insured perils, so hed need to look at the full terms and conditions. 
However, I think its unlikely that theres no cover available to him at all. For example, if a 
large tree crashed through the roof during a violent storm, its unlikely that wear and tear 
would be considered the main cause of the damage. 
Overall, Im satisfied that, based on the available evidence, Aviva fairly declined Mr Ts claim 
for the reason it gave.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman