DRN-3199766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt given them a full refund of the 
additional premium they paid on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held a travel insurance policy through a bank account which also covered their 
daughter. The insurer was AXA.
On 30 January 2020, Mr and Mrs T paid an additional premium of £143.57 on their policy. 
This was to cover their daughters medical conditions for a trip between 27 July and 
20 August 2020. On 13 February 2020 they changed the trip dates from 29 July until 
23 August 2020. They didnt pay anything further for this change.
Mr and Mrs T got in touch with AXA on 21 April 2020. They said they wouldnt be travelling 
due to medical advice received from their daughters medical practitioner. Mr and Mrs T 
asked AXA to refund the additional premium they paid to cover their daughters medical 
conditions during that trip.
AXA said that it would only issue a full refund for an upgrade, including a medical upgrade, if 
this was cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. It explained that the policy included 
cover for cancellation from the date the upgrade begins  which meant that a proportion of 
the upgrade had already been used. But AXA agreed to refund 65% of the additional 
premium, so £93.32.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with the offer, and they want AXA to give them a full refund. 
They say they werent going on holiday due to medical advice, rather than choosing not to. 
The holiday was cancelled by the provider on 24 June 2020.
Our investigator set out the relevant rules and guidance about cancellation rights and how 
they applied in the circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed. This was because cover under the policy for the declared 
medical conditions started on 30 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during 
that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
Overall, he thought that the refund AXA had paid Mr and Mrs T was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im really sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs Ts daughters health issues. Its clear that 
its been a difficult time for the whole family. And I appreciate why Mr and Mrs T decided not 
to travel, given the medical advice  their priority was their daughters health.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy available online and 
dated before they paid for the medical upgrade. These outline their cancellation rights under 
the contract, and say:
If You have purchased an Upgrade and within 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule, 
you find that it does not meet Your requirements You may cancel Your Upgrade by 
returning the Upgrade schedule to Us. We will refund any premium You have paid for 
Upgrades or to obtain cover for Medical Conditions in full provided You have not travelled.
For cancellations occurring after 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule no refund of 
premium will be made.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy upgrade was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that theres no refund for 
upgrade cancellations after the 14-day cooling off period. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. The policy didnt only cover Mr and Mrs Ts daughters medical conditions during 
their intended trip. It also provided cover if, for example, Mr and Mrs T had to cancel 
the trip because of those conditions from 30 January 2020 onwards. So, Mr and 
Mrs T had the benefit of the upgrade. 
Im satisfied AXA has demonstrated theres a material unevenness in the way the risk 
is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied it hasnt treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. I 
think AXAs offer to refund 65% of the additional premium is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because the offer 
AXA Insurance UK Plc has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Renja AndersonOmbudsman