DRN-3414287
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the assistance The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile provided 
during the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and that they declined his application for both 
an interest waiver on, and an extension to, his overdraft.
What happened
Mr J opened a current account with Smile in 1999. The account had a £500 overdraft facility, 
which Mr J used. And he was charged the overdraft usage fees in line with the terms and 
condition of the account.
On 30 October 2020, Mr J applied for a 2-month overdraft interest waiver as his income had 
been affected by Covid-19. The deadline for making an application like this was 31 October 
2020. And Mr J has said Smile declined his application because they say it was received 
after the deadline.
On 6 January 2021, Mr J phoned Smile to request an increase in his overdraft limit  from 
£500 to £600  as he was unable to make the minimum payment to a credit card without it. 
And he believes Smile declined this because hed complained about their service.
Mr J has complained to us that Smile rejected his application for the overdraft interest 
waiver, and that they rejected his subsequent application to increase his overdraft. Hes also 
unhappy that they didnt provide any information about their Covid-19 financial relief package 
on their website, and he didnt think it was reasonable that he would need to look at the 
website of The Co-operative Bank Plc to find this. Furthermore, hes unhappy that it was 
difficult and costly for him to be able to contact Smile.
Our investigator said Smile had considered Mr Js request for an interest waiver but were 
unable to continue with this when he failed to speak to them about his application, after 
being asked to do so. And they also considered his application for an overdraft extension, 
but couldnt provide this because Mr J already had the maximum overdraft they were able to 
offer him under their criteria.
The investigator also said that Smile had made it clear on their website what financial 
support they were able to provide to customers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Because 
of this, she didnt think Smile had done anything wrong, and she didnt think they needed to 
take any further action.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the banner text Smile provided on their 
website didnt change for the whole period it was in place  to the point it was not useful. 
He also said that, while the link initially linked to a page on the Smile website, it was later 
changed to link to a page on The Co-operative Bank Plcs website, where more in depth 
information was provided. And he feels like this meant that, as a customer of Smile, he was 
being treated like a second class citizen.
Mr J has also said he feels that the £500 maximum overdraft available being the same figure 
it was when he opened the account was unfair, given inflation, and that the spirit of the 
Covid-19 guidelines put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) meant that Smile 
should have applied leeway and increased his overdraft limit, as an increase was needed.
Mr J also believes that not agreeing to phone Smile to provide the confirmation they needed 
to agree the overdraft interest waiver doesnt mean that he discontinued his application for 
assistance. And that Smile were putting additional requirements in place that werent 
previously stated  Smile had made it clear that they wouldnt contact him about the waiver 
application, and if Smile had said that a credit check was required for the waiver to be 
approved, then he wouldnt have made the application.
Because he didnt agree with the investigator, Mr J asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
While Mr J has referred to the information and service other financial businesses provided to 
their customers, both during the Covid-19 pandemic and since, Im only considering the 
service he was provided with by Smile. So, my decision wont address the wider issues Mr J 
has raised. 
interest waiver application
Smile had provided Mr J with an interest waiver on his overdraft between May and August 
2020. On 30 October 2020, Mr J made a further application for a two-month extension. Smile 
acknowledged the application on 2 November 2020, advising Mr J that we will not call you 
about your additional overdraft support request  if there is a problem with the information 
you have provided, we will contact you via letter or email.
Smile have confirmed that their process for dealing with an extension application was to 
confirm with the customer how the Covid-19 pandemic was still affecting them. And then to 
see if there was any other support they could provide instead of, or in addition to, the interest 
waiver. As such, and despite the fact they said they wouldnt, Smile tried to call Mr J on both 
9 and 10 November 2020 to discuss his application. These calls were unsuccessful.
So, on 13 November 2020, Smile sent Mr J an email which said I note that you have 
requested an extension of the interest waiver on your overdraft. However if youre continuing 
to face financial difficulties due to coronavirus, its important that we fully assess your 
situation so that you can consider all the options available and get the right support based on 
your individual circumstances. Please contact our dedicated Financial Support team. 
Contact details for this team were provided.
If Mr J hadnt wanted to call Smile, given the issues and costs hes indicated he had calling 
them, he couldve responded to the email, providing times he was available, and asking for 
Smile to call him. This wouldve been a reasonable request, and I wouldve expected Smile 
to do this.  However, in reply to this email, on 15 November 2020, Mr J sent Smile a secure 
message which said:Phone back to go through a credit reference data gathering exercise for £24 
reduction in fees. 
Forget it, too much effort.
The phone call would probably cost £5 or more, given the time it actually takes to 
speak to someone.
Its pretty clear Smile arent following the spirit of the guidelines of the FCA in 
applying these policies.
Understand its company policy, but Ill be passing these findings to my MP and the 
FCA.
Smile followed this up with a secure message on 17 November 2020. They explained to Mr J 
that verbal confirmation was required to ensure eligibility for the waiver. They also provided 
Mr J with a local rate telephone number for him to call directly through to the department he 
needed to speak to, to reduce his waiting times and limit any cost implications of the call. But 
Mr J never called Smile about his application.
Also, on a call on 4 January 2021, when Mr J asked about an extension to his overdraft, he 
explained to Smile that he knew hed needed to speak to them to agree the interest waiver, 
but for the effort involved ... it felt like pulling teeth to sort this out. Especially when the 
interest waiver was only for £24. So, Im satisfied that he chose not to call them.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Smile acted reasonably when dealing with Mr Js 
application. Theres no evidence that they needed to conduct any credit check, and they 
tried to call him to get the verbal confirmation they needed. And they provided him with an 
alternative way of contacting them to reduce the impact of any call he needed to make. 
However, by not contacting Smile to validate the information they needed, Mr J essentially 
abandoned the application. And it wasnt declined by Smile. So, I wont be asking Smile to 
reconsider the application, or to apply any backdated interest waiver to Mr Js account.
overdraft extension application
Mr J said he believes Smile rejected the application for an overdraft extension he made in 
January 2021, because of the complaints hed previously made about their service. 
However, I havent seen anything to show me that was the case. When a financial business 
decides on a lending application, they consider a number of different factors. And their 
decision to lend is based on these factors and their lending criteria. This isnt something we 
can comment on, and were not able to tell them to make a different decision.
In this instance, Smile explained to Mr J that he already had the maximum overdraft limit 
available to him under their assessment criteria. So, they were unable to consider any 
further increase, even if Mr J only needed this for a short period of time. So, while I 
appreciate this wasnt the decision Mr J wanted, and it caused him stress and inconvenience 
in trying to sort out his financial situation, I dont think Smile did anything wrong by not giving 
Mr J an overdraft limit greater than the maximum they could provide to him under their 
lending criteria.
The Covid-19 guidelines put in place by the FCA were to assist customers in financial 
difficulties by reducing financial pressures. And in the case of overdrafts, they were designed 
to deal with the interest that was being charged. I appreciate that Mr J was having difficulties 
paying his credit card with another financial provider, but I dont agree that the FCA Covid-19 
guidelines (actually or in spirit) meant that Smile shouldve increased his overdraft limit, 
thereby increasing his debt, during a time of financial difficulty for him. If Mr J was unable to 
make his credit card payment because of Covid-19, it was for his credit card provider to 
consider what assistance they could provide to him, not Smile.Covid-19 support information
Before I address the information and support that was provided, I think it would be beneficial 
for me to explain the relationship between The Co-operative Bank Plc and Smile. Mr J has 
said that The Co-operative Bank Plc is the parent company of Smile, but this isnt the case. 
Smile is a trading name of The Co-operative Bank Plc. Which means that, even though Mr J 
received information and documentation that contained and included the Smile branding, he 
was a customer of The Co-operative Bank Plc.
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced a national lockdown due to Covid-19, 
ordering people to stay at home. And the lockdown measure legally came into force three 
days later. On 4 April 2020, Smile put a banner on their website which clearly said Important 
Coronavirus Updates and provided a link to what support was available to customers
As Mr J has explained in his comments, while this initially linked to information on Smiles 
website, this was changed to link to more in depth information on The Co-operative Bank 
Plcs website as the pandemic progressed, and as the FCA published more guidance. 
I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont think that, given Mr J was a 
customer of The Co-operative Bank Plc, the Smile website linking to a page on The Co-
Operative Bank Plcs website was bad practice from a security point of view, or was 
passing customers to someone they dont bank with, as Mr J has said.
difficulties contacting Smile
Mr J has said Smile suspended their Live Chat facility during the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
that there were delays in them responding to secure messages. Hes also said that they 
didnt have a freephone (0800) number for customers to call them on, and when he did try 
and call, it could take over 10 minutes before he could get through  Mr J only had a Pay As 
You Go phone contract, which didnt include free calls to the numbers Smile used, and that 
his phone provider had increased their charges by over 300% a minute. So, He found it very 
expensive to call Smile.
While I can appreciate Mr J had difficulties getting through to Smile, and phoning them 
wasnt a practical option for him, the Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. 
Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and Smile wouldve 
needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, 
Smile experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr J trying to get through to Smile, that his 
methods for contacting them were limited, and that there were delays in responding to him; I 
dont think Smile did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contacts at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control.
With regards to Smile not having a freephone (0800) number for customers to contact them, 
this is a business decision theyve taken. And it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to tell financial businesses what methods they should put in place for customers to 
contact them. This is a decision Smile can make in line with its regulator  The FCA. For this 
reason, I wont comment further on Smiles choice of phone contact method.
Finally, Mr J has complained that Smile removed his overdraft facility in January 2022, 
without giving him proper notice or checking if this would cause him any financial difficulties. 
This didnt form part of Mr Js original complaint, and were unable to consider a complaint until the financial business have been given the opportunity to deal with this. As such, I wont 
be dealing with this issue as part of my decision. Once Mr J has raised this issue with Smile, 
and if he remains unhappy with their response, hes able to bring the complaint to us. And 
we can consider this separately.
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think Smile have done anything wrong. And I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above dont I uphold Mr Js complaint about The Co-operative 
Bank Plc trading as Smile.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman