DRN-3275796
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Club Lloyds 
Platinum account that was sold to him on 14 September 2018.
Mr H says that it was mis-sold as hes not used any of the benefits that were provided by the 
account and says that he had access to all of the features of the account through other 
providers.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having weighed everything up I 
dont think that it was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Having looked through what Mr H has told us, there is nothing to suggest that Mr H thought 
that the packaged account was compulsory, or that he didnt have any choice in agreeing to 
the account. I also can see that hed held a fee-free account with Lloyds for a number of 
years beforehand. So I think Mr H agreed to the account knowing that it was optional.
Mr H says Lloyds recommended the account to him. Lloyds says that the account was sold 
on a non-advised basis. However, there are elements to the sale that suggest it was an 
advised sale. For example, it seems that Lloyds assessed Mr Hs circumstances, as I can 
see that it had identified Mr Hs insurance needs. And then Lloyds explained during the sale 
that the Platinum account included benefits that matched those needs. But even if the 
account was sold on an advised basis, I dont think the account was mis-sold. 
Where a packaged is sold on an advised basis, this means Lloyds was obliged to check that 
it was a reasonable fit for Mr Hs circumstances at the time. And from what I can see from 
the sales documentation, it did this.
In September 2018, the Club Lloyds Platinum cost £19 a month and provided benefits such 
as worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. It also 
included non-insurance benefits such as a fee-free overdraft of up to £300 (subject to 
application) and preferential foreign transaction fees when using the debt card abroad. It 
also provided a lifestyle benefit and paid interest on any credit balance, as a result of 
having the Club Lloyds bolt on included with the package.
From the point of sale documents that Lloyds has provided and from what Mr H has told us, 
it seems that Mr H was potentially able to make use of these benefits, so overall the 
recommendation seems to have been a reasonable one. Of course, if Mr H then didnt go on 
to use those benefits having been made aware of them, as seems to be the case here, that 
doesnt mean that Lloyds is in the wrong  as Mr H seems to suggest is the case.
I note that Mr H says he had the benefits elsewhere. But I can only conclude, albeit on 
balance, that he agreed to upgrade his account with the intention that he would cancel his 
existing cover  bearing in mind that I think he was made aware of the features of the 
account and he agreed to it in the knowledge that it was completely optional. But again, I 
cant hold Lloyds responsible if he didnt then go on to cancel his existing polices, or chose 
to buy or renew cover elsewhere rather than rely on the cover provided by the account. I say 
this especially as the sales documentation specifically points out that if Mr H has any existing 
insurance that is also included in the packaged account, he needs to review his cover to 
ensure hes not paying for the same cover twice.
Finally, Lloyds was required to give Mr H all of the important information about the account, 
so that he was able to make an informed decision when agreeing to the account. From what 
I can see the cost and main benefits of the account were made clear to Mr H. I note that Mr 
H says that he was unable to use the travel insurance as he had an existing medical 
condition. But I can see he told Lloyds about his condition during the sale and Lloyds told 
him that he would be covered for the condition  and that looks to be correct as his condition 
was contained within the no screen list of medical conditions. 
So overall, I think Mr H had enough information in which to make an informed decision about 
whether to agree to the account. And Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that 
makes me think he wouldve been put from agreeing to the account, had he been given 
more information about it.
As such, I dont think that the account was mis-sold. Overall, from what Mr H has said, it 
seems to be the case that Mr H may have simply forgot he had the fee-paying package on 
his account, and now he would like a refund as he never used the benefits. But as I cant see 
that Lloyds has done anything wrong, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to 
refund him the account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Mr Hs Club Lloyds Platinum account was 
mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman