DRN-4237277
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in regard to a car he had paid for using his Sainsbury's Bank 
credit card.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr L bought a used car. He paid a £500 deposit on 10 December 2021 
and the balance of £3,290 on 16 December 2021. Both payments were made using his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. Mr L says that he noticed faults with the car straight away and 
the dealership said these would be fixed. However, he says after two months the car was 
returned to him and still had issues. Mr L took the car to get independent assessments and 
decided to pay for repairs to get the car roadworthy. 
Mr L started court proceedings against the dealership and obtained a default judgment in 
March 2023 in which he was awarded around £6,774. Mr L says he hasnt been able to 
recover this money.
Separate to the court proceedings, Mr L raised a Section 75 claim with Sainsburys Bank.  
Sainsburys Bank declined Mr Ls claim. It said that the dealership had provided Mr L with 
the option to return the car but as Mr L hadnt done this it couldnt determine if the correct 
works would have been carried out or a refund offered. Sainsburys Bank did find that it 
hadnt provided the service it should have in regard to his complaint and credited his account 
with £150 because of this.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys Banks response and referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator upheld this complaint. She didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality at supply and said that there had been a breach of contract. She recommended that 
certain repair costs were refunded to Mr L. 
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It noted the age and mileage at 
the point of purchase and said there wasnt evidence that the car wasnt fit for purpose 
unsafe or undriveable. It didnt agree that there had been a breach of contract and as the car 
was sold as seen there was no misrepresentation. 
Mr L responded to our investigators view. He said that he had received the court judgement 
over a year before and had tried to resolve this. He said he had hardly used the car in the 
past two years and has been incurring costs for insurance, tax and the MOT. Mr L said he 
was at risk of a significant financial loss as well as having endured many months of stress 
which had affected his mental health. He said he had paid over £7,500 for repairs, court 
costs and bailiff fees and he should be refunded this along with being paid compensation for 
the upset he has been caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section 75, a consumer can raise a claim against the finance provider (subject to 
certain conditions) if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
Mr L was a consumer, provided with a used car by a trader. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
has the effect of incorporating into the contract a term that the car will be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as any 
description (for example, the age and mileage) and the price of the car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was around thirteen years old and had been driven around 106,000 
miles. The price Mr L paid for the car was in line with the average market price of a car of the 
type Mr L acquired that was in good condition and so while it would be reasonable to expect 
that the car will have suffered some wear and tear the price paid didnt mean that Mr L 
should have expected to pay additional amounts to bring the car up to a good condition.. 
I have noted the comments provided by Sainsburys Bank about the nature of the issues and 
the age of the car. The car was delivered to Mr L on 15 December 2021 and a day later he 
noticed warning lights and that the car wasnt running properly. The car was returned to the 
dealership and the codes reset. However, a few days later smoke started to come from the 
car and a warning light came on telling him to stop driving and the car was leaking fluids 
which I do not think a buyer should have expected. Mr L contacted the dealership at that 
time, but it wasnt able to take the car back for repairs until 3 January. The car was returned, 
and the dealership provided Mr L with a list of repairs that had been undertaken. Looking at 
these, while some could be considered wear and tear items, I do not find this is the case for 
all. And noting Mr Ls comment about the warning light telling him to stop driving, I do not 
think that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Repair can be a reasonable remedy and I note repairs took place in early 2022 (after the 
initial code reset in December 2021). However, the repairs took a long time and when the 
car was returned to Mr L on 24 February 2022, there were still issues. Mr L took it for 
independent inspections and these confirmed there were still problems with the car including 
issues with the wheels being buckled, the suspension and oil leaks.
In its response to Mr Ls Section 75 claim, Sainsburys Bank said that the dealership had 
requested the car be returned to it on several occasions between 28 February and 5 March 
but Mr L had refused to do this. While I note this comment, as Mr L had already allowed the 
dealership two opportunities to repair the car (first when the codes were reset and then the 
car was at the dealership for two months) I think Mr L had provided adequate opportunity for 
the issues to be remedied and this hadnt happened. 
Taking the above into account I think that there was a breach of contract that hasnt been 
remedied and as such it would have been reasonable for Mr Ls Section 75 claim to be 
upheld.
As I Intend to uphold this complaint, I have considered what is a reasonable outcome. I 
understand that Mr L undertook repairs to make the car roadworthy and I can see it passed 
an MOT in November 2022. While I can see Mr L hasnt had much use of the car, as it was 
repaired and available for use, and Mr L still has the car I do not find that Sainsburys Bank 
is required to refund him the purchase price of the car. However, I do find that Mr L should 
be refunded the costs of certain repairs that he paid for. Having looked through the list of 
items I agree with our investigators suggested refunds (including those for costs that Mr L 
paid for items that he was told had been repaired). I note Mr Ls comments about the other 
costs he incurred including the alloy wheels and also the timing of when he paid for repairs. 
But I have to consider the nature of the repairs, the price, the age and mileage of the car at the point of supply and the mileage then covered before repairs were undertaken and on 
balance, I find that the outcome suggested by our investigator is reasonable in this case. 
Mr L has taken the dealership to court and has incurred costs through this process. While I 
understand he wants these costs to be included in the refund I find this is a separate issue. It 
was Mr Ls choice to take legal action against the dealership and an outcome was provided 
in response to that. This decision is in regard to the Section 75 claim, and I find the remedy 
recommended is reasonable. 
Mr L was paid £150 compensation by Sainsburys Bank due to the delay and issues in 
dealing with his Section 75 claim. Having looked at the issues involved I find this reasonable. 
As noted above, Mr L has an outstanding court judgement against the dealership. This 
complaint has been raised against Sainsburys Bank as the finance provider. Ive decided 
the fair way to settle this dispute is for Sainsburys Bank to pay Mr L £1,979.24 along with 
interest, on the basis that he hasnt received any payment from the dealership. This 
settlement is likely to have an impact on the judgment Mr L holds in relation to the 
dealership, and he should take legal advice if he wants to clarify how his position will be 
affected. 
Putting things right
Subject to Mr L confirming he hasnt received payment from the dealership and that he will 
inform Sainsburys Bank if he does do so or if he seeks to take any steps to enforce the 
judgment against the dealership, my final decision is that to settle this complaint Sainsburys 
Bank must pay Mr L £1,979.24 along with 8% simple interest from the payment dates to the 
settlement date.
Details of the payments that make up the total above and the dates on which they were 
made are set out below:
The invoice dated 14 June 2022 for £1,080.78. These repairs included the oil leak 
and new valve stem seals.
The invoice dated 3 May 2022 for £115.00 to replace one tyre. 
Invoice dated 6 April 2022 for £174.00. This included replacement top shock mounts 
and front disc guards.
Invoice dated 4 March 2022 for £132.23 to replace a tyre.
Parts for the car totalling £324.72 which Mr L purchased in April 2022 (1 April 2022 - 
mini bush kits, strut top mounts front £39.95, front Anti Roll drop links £14.99, anti-roll 
bar bush kits £16.90, brake disc pads and petrol fill cap £96.84, brake pair disc pads 
£42.10, 4 April 2022 parts totalling £113.94).
The cost of the diagnostics check costing £152.51 (invoice dated 16 March 2022). I 
understand the second diagnostics costs were part of the process included in the 
replacement of the trye invoiced on 4 March 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman