DRN-3764542
The complaint
Miss S complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and the decision to reject the 
claim she made on her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S purchased a home emergency insurance policy through a broker, who Ill refer to as 
W. This policy was underwritten by IPA and so, IPA were responsible for any claim 
decisions on the policy.
On 12 February 2022, Miss S discovered her bathroom basin had blocked and so, she 
attempted to make a claim on her policy. But IPA rejected this claim, as they didnt think it 
met the criteria for an emergency as Miss S had another sink available to use. Miss S was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss S didnt think it was reasonable for IPA to suggest that she and her family should use 
the toilet in her bathroom and then wash their hands in the kitchen sink. So, she didnt think 
it was fair for IPA to reject her claim on this basis and she wanted to be compensated for the 
upset this issue had caused her and her family.
IPA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt their decision to reject the 
claim was fair, as they didnt think Miss S situation met the emergency criteria detailed with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Miss S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked int the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought IPA had acted 
within the terms and conditions of the policy when rejecting the claim, as they didnt think the 
blocked bathroom sink qualified as an emergency due to the fact Miss S had another sink 
available for use. So, they didnt think IPA needed to do anything more.
Miss S didnt agree. She made reference to a hypothetical scenario our investigator 
discussed in a telephone conversation, which she thought contradicted our investigators 
original view. And she maintained her belief that her situation was an emergency and so, 
shouldve been treated as such. As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss S. I recognise Miss S 
wouldve taken out the insurance policy under the belief that it would help assist her in 
situations similar to the one she found herself in. So, when her claim was rejected, I can 
understand the upset and frustration she wouldve felt. And I can understand why she would 
want to be compensated for this.
But for me to say IPA should compensate Miss S, Id first need to be satisfied they did 
something wrong when rejecting the claim. So, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to act 
within the terms and conditions of the policy Miss S held when taking this course of action. 
Or, if I think they did act within them, Id need to be satisfied that it was unfair of them to do 
so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain my 
role and importantly, why the complaint is about IPA and not W. Its not my role to re-
underwrite the complaint, instead its my role to consider IPAs rejection of the claim and 
decide whether I think it was fair. So, I wont be speculating on how I wouldve chosen to 
settle the claim.
And as underwriter of the policy Miss S held, any claim decision falls under the responsibility 
of W. Im aware in Miss S comments to our investigators view, shes provided policy 
documentation that she think comes from W directly and hasnt been considered. But the 
documentation Miss W has provided is part of the policy schedule, which is sent at each 
renewal. This is separate to the policy terms and conditions. But in both the schedule Miss 
W has sent, and the terms and conditions weve relied upon, I think it makes it clear that the 
insurer is IPA, and that W is the broker who arranged the set-up of the policy. If Miss W 
doesnt think this was made clear, that is a separate complaint about the sale of the policy, 
which would fall under the remit of W.
It's important to note the policy Miss S held is a home emergency policy and so, for a claim 
to be accepted, it must first meet the definition of an emergency to ensure there is an 
insurable event. For any insurance claim of any type to be accepted, proof of an insurable 
event is a requirement.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Miss S held which define an emergency as 
the following:
The result of a sudden and unforeseen incident at the property which immediately:
1. Exposes the insured or a third party to a risk to their health or;
2. Creates a risk of loss of or damage to the property and/or any of your belongings or;
3. Renders the property uninhabitable. The definition shall include damage to or 
breakdown of the essential services to the property.
So, for IPA to accept and consider the complaint, they would first need to be satisfied that 
Miss S situation met one of these criteria.
IPA doesnt think Miss S blocked sink meets these criteria as she had another sink available 
in the kitchen. And I think IPA were fair to reach this decision.
Although I appreciate Miss S disagrees strongly with this, I dont think her family washing 
their hands in the kitchen posed a risk to their health as they still had access to washing 
facilities. So, I dont think IPA were unfair to decide the situation fails to meet the first criteria. 
And I dont think they were unfair to decide the situation failed to meet the criteria of the 
second condition, as Miss S was able to use another sink and so, had no need to use the blocked sink which in turn may then have damaged her property. And finally, I dont think the 
blocked sink rendered the property inhabitable, as Miss S and her family still had access to 
heating, hot water, bathing facilities and the ability to prepare food etc. So, I dont think IPA 
were unfair to decide the claim didnt meet the condition either.
So, while I do think the situation wouldve been inconvenient for Miss S and her family, I 
dont think this inconvenience means IPA acted unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy 
Miss S held, when they rejected her claim. The policy itself is designed and created to assist 
in the case of an emergency and I dont think IPA were unfair to decide that the situation 
didnt qualify as an emergency on this occasion. Because of this, while I recognise Miss S is 
likely to disagree, I dont think IPA need to do anything more.
I also want to comment on the confusion created during the conversation between our 
investigator and Miss S, which she feels impacts the complaint. I recognise Miss S put 
forward a hypothetical scenario to our investigator, and she feels the answer to this was 
contradictory. While I have considered Miss S point, this hasnt impacted my decision. Our 
service focuses solely on the events that did take in any situation alongside the evidence 
available, and we are unable to take into consideration hypothetical situations that didnt 
happen. So, while I understand why Miss S disputed the comments of our investigator, this 
hasnt altered the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman