DRN-1412859
The complaint
Mr C complains that Markerstudy Insurance Services Limited (Markerstudy) wont pay a 
claim he made under his motor insurance policy after a van he insured under the policy was 
stolen.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr C, acting through a broker, took out an insurance policy for his van 
with Markerstudy. In the proposal form sent to Markerstudy Mr C said the van would 
normally be kept overnight on his drive.
The policy schedule sent to Mr C said on page 1 that endorsements applied to the policy, 
and that they were shown on page 2. Included among the endorsements listed on page 2 
was the following:
427 - VEHICLE KEPT OFF ROAD ENDORSEMENT
It is a condition of the Motor Policy that when parked at Your home address between the 
hours of 10pm and 6am Your vehicle is kept off the public road and on your private property, 
in accordance with the information provided to Underwriters at the start of this policy. Failure 
to do so could invalidate your cover.
 
In June 2019, Mr C reported to Markerstudy that his van had been stolen. According to 
Markerstudys notes of a telephone interview with Mr C on 24 June 2019, he had returned 
home on 15 June 2019, and had parked the van on the roadside two doors from his house. 
He had last seen the van there at 9.00 pm on Monday 17 June 2019. When he woke at   
4.30 am the next morning, the van was missing.
The van was reported as stolen to the police, and hasnt been recovered. Markerstudy said it 
wouldnt meet his claim as he hadnt complied with the policy endorsement set out above.  
Mr C complained to Markerstudy about its decision. He said, in summary, that:
he had last used the van on 16 June 2019, when he returned home to find his 
driveway blocked. So he parked the van on the roadway opposite his neighbour. He 
hadnt told Markerstudy that he last used the van on 15 June 2019;
he had told both Markerstudy and the police that the neighbour had CCTV which 
showed the theft taking place. Neither seemed to have asked for this at the time and 
it was later deleted by the neighbour;
it was never pointed out to him that if for unforeseen reasons he couldnt park the van 
in his drive, this would invalidate a claim. If it had been, he wouldnt have taken this 
policy; and
the endorsement wording said the cover could be invalidated. Markerstudy hadnt 
said why it was choosing to invoke this provision in his case.
Markerstudy said he had told it previously that he last used the car on 15 June 2019, and it 
was stolen on 17/18 June 2019. So it thought he had time to park the van on his driveway 
before it was stolen. It also said the fact that it was parked outside his neighbours house 
didnt mean it wasnt parked at his home address. Mr C didnt accept Markerstudys 
decision and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said the 
endorsement was set out clearly in the policy documents Mr C had received. Insurers were 
entitled to limit cover to the events detailed in the policy. He was satisfied Markerstudy had 
shown the exclusion applied in this case.
Mr C said he had a valid reason for not being able to park the van in the driveway. While the 
investigator agreed the circumstances were unfortunate, he thought the endorsement on the 
policy was clear and had been applied reasonably.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that:
it wasnt pointed out to him at the time of taking the policy out that what happened 
would invalidate a claim. If it had been, he would have gone elsewhere;
the words could invalidate not would invalidate were used in the endorsement;
why was it assumed the van was taken after 10.00 pm? If it was taken between the 
hours of 9.00 pm and 10.00 pm the endorsement wouldnt apply;
insurance was taken in good faith and he believed it was dishonest not to honour it 
and implement a clause with no valid reason. Markerstudy had no evidence the drive 
wasnt blocked;
if he was getting work done on his property and had a skip occupying the drive 
temporarily, would this invalidate any claim; and
he thought the decision went against natural justice and sided with the insurance 
company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the points Mr C has now made, I would point out that:
Markerstudy wasnt party to any discussions between Mr C and his broker which led 
to the policy being taken out. However, it set out the endorsement clearly in the 
policy documents it sent to Mr C;
while the endorsement was clearly relevant to a theft of the van outside Mr Cs 
house, it wouldnt be relevant, or fair to apply it, in all circumstances  for example if 
an accident occurred to the van on the open road; and
the theft took place on what was almost the shortest day of the year. In the absence 
of any other evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Markerstudy to think it 
was most likely that the van was stolen during the hours of darkness, that is after 
10.00 pm.
An insurance company is entitled to say what risks it is willing to insure against, and charge 
a premium accordingly. We dont think this is unreasonable as long as this information is 
made clear to the consumer.Markerstudy did set out clearly in the policy documents it sent to Mr C the restrictions that 
applied to the policy. If Mr C had any doubts or concerns about how this might operate in 
practice he should have discussed this with Markerstudy or with his broker.
On the information available to Markerstudy, I dont think it acted unreasonably in deciding 
that Mr Cs claim fell outside the terms of the policy, and so not paying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Markerstudy 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman