DRN-4200678
The complaint
Mr O complains that he wasnt informed of a review Zurich Assurance Ltd undertook of his 
life and critical illness policy, which meant he was unaware that his sum assured had 
reduced.
What happened
In 1999 Mr O took out a whole of life policy, which provided both life and critical illness cover 
with a sum assured of £100,000 and premiums of £32.06. It was index linked and 
reviewable, and by 2019 Mr O was paying £114.72 per month for a sum assured of 
£175,113. In October 2019 Zurich reviewed the plan and wrote to Mr O to set out his 
options. He could:
Increase his premiums to £244.74 for a sum assured of £181,963
Increase his premiums to £120.21 for a sum assured of £40,518  which was the 
default option if no reply was received
Zurich didnt receive a reply and so the sum assured decreased. In January 2021 Mr O 
received his annual statement for the policy and this is when he discovered the change to 
the sum assured. He wrote to Zurich to complain that the cover had dropped so much, 
despite him making no changes to the policy. Zurich didnt uphold his complaint, as they said 
theyd written to him in 2019 and received no reply, so the sum assured had reduced in line 
with the terms. 
Unfortunately, in February 2021, Mr O suffered a heart attack. He made a claim on the 
critical illness policy and Zurich paid him the sum assured of £40,518. 
Mr O then brought his complaint to our service. Mr O is represented in this matter, but for 
simplicity Ill mostly refer to submissions as though they were from Mr O directly. Due to the 
circumstances, the complaint has naturally evolved to include the amount he was paid upon 
the claim. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that 
Zurich had sent Mr O the 2019 review letter to his correct address and though she accepted 
that Mr O didnt receive it, she said it wouldnt be fair to hold Zurich responsible for the lack 
of delivery of that letter. On that basis, she said she felt the amount paid under the claim was 
correct.
Mr O disagreed, explaining he felt it was unfair for the cover to be reduced so drastically 
after just one letter from Zurich and without a reply from him. In addition, the statement in 
January 2021 said that if he was unhappy with the cover, he should contact Zurich  and 
that is what he did, but they didnt discuss increasing the sum assured. Zurich was aware of 
certain mental health conditions that Mr O has, and so he particularly felt they ought to have 
done more to assist him at that time. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case, explaining that I was persuaded that Zurich 
hadnt done anything wrong in the way they carried out the review, because in summary:
Both the timing of the review, and the default option to reduce the sum assured, were 
carried out in line with the terms. The terms didnt specify how many times Zurich 
ought to contact Mr O when a review takes place.
I was persuaded that Mr O was aware of the reviewable nature of the policy, having 
responded to a review in 2009.
Prior to the review in October 2019, Zurich sent Mr O annual statements in January 
each year. In July 2018 Mr O requested and was sent a copy of his statement from 
that year, dated 18 January 2018. That statement (and the next, sent in 2019) 
included the following: The next review of your plan is due on 1 December 2019. It 
will then be reviewed every five years until you reach age 70. After this, reviews will 
take place each year.
I must consider Zurichs actions in October 2019 in the context of the information 
they had previously given Mr O in the run up to the review in his statements. Overall, 
I didnt think it was unreasonable for Zurich to only send one letter in October 2019 
prior to reducing the sum assured. 
An annual statement was sent in January 2020 after the review was completed. So, I 
was satisfied that Zurich had made Mr O sufficiently aware of the review. 
I also considered what took place in 2021 once Mr O discovered the review. In summary, I 
thought the correct sum assured had been paid to Mr O upon his claim, because:
Following receipt of his statement dated 18 January 2021, Mr O wrote Zurich a letter, 
which was received on 28 January. Its clear from his letter that he was greatly 
concerned about the change to the policy. Zurich wrote to Mr O on 15 February 2021 
(though I noted I dont have a copy of this letter) which apparently explained that a 
review had taken place in 2019, which caused the decrease in cover. Unfortunately, 
Mr O suffered his heart attack on 12 February 2021. 
The terms do allow for policy holders to apply to increase cover, but this is subject to 
health and lifestyle checks. Having carefully considered whether Mr O could have 
successfully applied between receiving the statement and the time of his heart 
attack, I was satisfied that wouldnt have been likely. So, I reached the conclusion 
that the correct sum assured had been paid out by Zurich. 
Replies to my provisional decision
Zurich replied to confirm they agreed with the outcome I had reached. 
Mr O replied and said:
In 2019, he was mentally unwell. He was unable to read any mail from Zurich or 
anyone else, and no one else opened it on his behalf. 
He didnt think it was reasonable for the default option to be that the sum assured 
reduced. He wanted the cover particularly for his children, and he could afford the 
increase. 
He provided an example of other mail going missing, which showed they dont 
always receive post.
He felt his mental health condition ought to be treated as a protected characteristic 
under Equality law, and that hed been discriminated against due to the single attempt of communication at the point of the review. He felt Zurich could have 
phoned, emailed or sent more than one letter in October 2019. 
When we asked whether he remembered ever asking Zurich to contact him in 
another way, Mr Os representative explained that he has no recollection of 
speaking with Zurich about communication preferences and I certainly didnt. [Mr O] 
was not in any state to think about this if it had been offered and I had no 
communication whatsoever with Zurich.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same findings as in my provisional decision, for largely the 
same reason. Ive set out my thoughts on the two main issues separately, for clarity.
The review in 2019
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr O for providing the level of detail about his health conditions and 
for answering the questions I had about the complaint points hes made. I should explain that 
my role isnt to find whether a law has been broken so Im not able to say whether Zurich has 
discriminated against Mr O or is otherwise in breach of the law. Rather, my role is to make a 
decision about whether Zurich has treated Mr O fairly and reasonably  which does include 
having regard to relevant law, rules and regulations. 
In 2015 Zurich became aware of Mr Os mental health problems. Theres no evidence 
showing that Mr O or Zurich ever raised the question of what Zurich could do differently with 
regards to the policy, to support him. Even if I were to find that Zurich ought to have asked 
Mr O if any adjustments were required, based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded 
that anything would have changed. Ill explain why. 
Im mindful of the fact weve been told that Mr O would not have been able to think about 
what support hed need, had Zurich asked. Mr O didnt ask Zurich to call him about reviews, 
or contact him in any way other than via post. I dont think its reasonable to expect Zurich to 
call all customers who havent responded to review letters, as this would create a 
disproportionate administrative burden on the firm  the cost of which would likely be passed 
on to customers. 
Mr Os representative has told us that he wasnt opening post, and no one was opening it on 
his behalf, so if Zurich had sent more than one letter, I think its likely he wouldnt have 
opened that either. Zurich hadnt been made aware that Mr Os health condition meant that 
he needed them to make any reasonable adjustments. Mental health problems in particular 
affect each individual in different ways, so I dont think it would be fair for Zurich to assume 
which adjustments would benefit Mr O. 
Id also reiterate that Zurich didnt just send one letter that mentioned the review. The annual 
statements talk about when the next review would be, and he was sent a statement shortly 
after the review was complete, confirming the new sum assured. So overall Im persuaded 
that Zurich acted reasonably in the way they contacted him about the review.
I understand Mr O feels strongly that the default option following the review, ought to have 
been to increase the premiums he was paying. I dont think it would have been fair and 
reasonable of Zurich to do that. Notwithstanding that the terms set out that the default option 
is for the sum assured to decrease, an unexpected large increase in premiums could cause 
financial detriment. While I appreciate Mr O may have been able to afford the large increase here, many other customers may not, and Zurich have to set procedures in a fair and 
reasonable way for all customers. So, Im satisfied that the practice of decreasing the sum 
assured by default is fair in general. And Im not persuaded that Zurich should have acted 
differently for Mr Os review specifically, as they werent asked to act in a different way to 
how they previously operated reviews.    
Overall, Im satisfied that Zurich treated Mr O fairly and reasonably in the way they carried 
out the review. Even if they had done more to contact him, I dont think it would have made a 
difference here, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
The events in 2021 
Ive received no further submissions around the events that took place in 2021. My findings 
on this remain the same as in my provisional decision. In summary, I think its unlikely that 
any application to increase his cover would have been successfully made, given the short 
period of time between Mr Os receipt of the statement and his heart attack. 
Ive considered the steps that Zurich would have needed to take, which likely would have 
included reaching out to Mr Os doctors for medical evidence, to satisfy their underwriting 
criteria. This typically can take weeks, if not months, to complete particularly when waiting 
for third-party information. Reasonable processing times for Zurich to review and pass 
information internally would also need to be factored in. I note there are also certain 
restrictions under the terms and conditions that allow Zurich to refuse applications to 
increase in certain circumstances, in particular where the risk has changed since the original 
application. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr O and the position hes in and have very carefully 
considered the concerns raised here. Having done so, I think the amount paid under the 
claim was the correct sum assured. So, although I appreciate that Mr O will be disappointed 
with my decision, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Zurich to pay Mr O 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject 
my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman