DRN-4114699
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has recorded a default on his credit file 
in respect of a loan and sold the account to a third party. 
What happened
Mr F took out a loan with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 2018. 
On 31 August 2022, Mr F called RBS as hed received a letter from them saying his account 
had been passed to a third-party debt collection agency. RBS told Mr F theyd done this 
because his account had been in arrears for a while and no plan for payment had been put 
forward by him. 
Mr F complained to RBS about what had happened. RBS didnt uphold this and said they 
hadnt made any errors in how theyd managed the account. So, Mr F referred the matter to 
our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said that Mr F had been in arrears for 
several months and that no formal agreement to repay this had been put in place by him, so 
it was fair for RBS to default the account. 
Mr F didnt agree and mentioned that he had paid RBS in August 2022 which showed a clear 
intention on his part to continue to repay what was owed. So, he felt that RBSs actions were 
unfair and would cause him difficulties in re-mortgaging his property. As Mr F didnt agree 
with our investigators view, he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but I think RBS acted fairly so I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Fs loan account statements and have noted that his payment history in 
2022 was as follows: 
the repayment due in January was returned unpaid 
the repayment due in February was paid on time and a further payment was made by 
Mr F on 10 February to clear the arrears from January 
The repayment due in March was returned unpaid with a payment subsequently 
made on 15 March
The repayments due in April and May were returned unpaid
The repayment due in June was paid but the repayment for July was returned 
unpaid.
Mr F made a payment on 2 August
So, by the time Mr F made the August payment, the loan account was in arrears by two 
months and the payment history prior to that from January 2022 onwards was such that 
payments werent being made on time other than for February and June. 
I completely understand the situation that Mr F was in, in that he had been struggling to 
make the repayments because of issues with his employer. However, I can also see from 
RBSs account history notes that they tried to call Mr F on several occasions throughout 
May, June and July 2022 to explore how they could help him and that, when they spoke to 
him, he asked for more time to consider his options. I note though that Mr F didnt then get 
back in touch with RBS to discuss this further. 
Ive also seen the letters that RBS sent to Mr F on 27 April, 16 May and 16 June 2022 which 
asked him to contact them to discuss how to repay the arrears that had built up. RBS also 
sent a formal notice of default on 9 July which explained what action they would take if the 
arrears hadnt been repaid by 12 August. 
I appreciate that Mr F made a payment in August, however I find by this time considering the 
payment history and the unsuccessful attempts to put some form of payment arrangement in 
place, RBS was entitled to take more formal action to recover the outstanding balance of the 
loan. I also find that Mr F had been given the required notice that this could happen in RBSs 
letter of 9 July, and the ways he could have prevented formal action being taken. 
I do understand that the impact of the loan defaulting has been significant on Mr F. However, 
I find that RBS did try to offer support to him and that they were reasonably entitled to take 
further action in the absence of anything agreed despite several attempts to find a solution. I 
remind RBS though to continue to offer to work with Mr F so he can repay the outstanding 
balance of the loan and that they do so positively and sympathetically, where appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman