DRN-2648106
The complaint
 Mrs C complains that a sofa bed she purchased, with a fixed sum loan from Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc, wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mrs C wishes to reject the sofa and to 
receive compensation from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc for their handling of her complaint.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs C by a close relative who acts as her 
representative. For ease of reference I will only refer to Mrs C in my decision as the credit 
agreement was in her name. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs C chose a new sofa bed from a retailers showroom and placed an 
order for the item. However, a little later she called back and asked to put the order on 
hold as she was unsure about the colour. Mrs C then returned to the showroom, selected 
the colour she wanted for the sofa bed and ordered the item. Mrs C was told she would 
have to wait several weeks for the item to be ready to be delivered.
Mrs C entered into a one-year fixed sum credit agreement to pay for the sofa bed and this 
agreement went live when the furniture item was delivered in July 2019. Mrs C says she 
was surprised at the speed with which the item was ready for delivery and had to make 
arrangements for an existing sofa to be removed, so that this new piece of furniture would 
fit in her home.
Mrs C says that on the day of delivery there was a struggle to get the sofa bed into her 
house and this resulted in the front door being damaged, though she was unaware of this 
until after the delivery staff had left. Mrs C says she wasnt given a delivery note and did 
not sign anything.
Two days after the sofa bed had been delivered, Mrs C called the retailer and complained 
about the sofa beds colour which hadnt been what she had expected, the piping on the 
cushions and other matters. The retailer sent a technician to Mrs C home to inspect the 
item. 
The technician attended Mrs Cs home a few days later and said the colour of the sofa bed 
was within tolerance of the swatch of fabric representing the sofa beds colour and that 
there were no faults present with it. Mrs C also reported to the technician that her front 
door had been damaged when the sofa bed had been delivered and they made a note of 
that in their report.
In August 2019, Mrs C contacted Hitachi to complain about the sofa beds quality and 
damage to her front door. It said it would arrange for an independent technician to come 
and inspect the item. At this point Mrs C told Hitachi that she wanted to reject the sofa 
bed as she was disappointed with its quality.
Although an independent technician was booked, nobody attended Mrs C home as it 
appears Hitachi cancelled the booking. Hitachi had decided to close Mrs Cs complaint 
having investigated the delivery and quality of the sofa bed with the retailer.
Mrs C wrote to Hitachi again and asked to reject the sofa bed. As Mrs C had paid the 
deposit for the sofa bed with a credit card, she also made a chargeback claim to her bank. 
The bank credited back the disputed amount and opened a claim. The retailer contested 
Mrs Cs claim and the bank says that the matter was then referred to a higher level where 
the retailers case was upheld. However, the bank decided to cover the loss and so didnt 
debit the deposit amount from Mrs C credit card balance. It appears that the bank didnt 
explain this to Mrs C as she incorrectly believed the bank had investigated and upheld her 
claim against the retailer.
As Mrs C had an ongoing complaint about the quality of the sofa bed with both the 
retailer and Hitachi, the retailer arranged for a second inspection of the sofa bed to take 
place. A technician attended Mrs Cs home and reported that she was unhappy with the 
puckering and creasing of the leather on the seat cushions, and about the quality of the 
mattress that was supplied. The technician said there were no manufacturing faults with 
sofa bed.
Hitachi didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint that the sofa bed wasnt fit for purpose and 
that it wasnt the one she had selected at the showroom.
Mrs C again contacted Hitachi and said she wanted to reject the sofa bed and disagreed 
that it was of satisfactory quality. Hitachi didnt agree this would be reasonable.
Mrs C had been paying the credit agreement by way of monthly direct debits but decided 
to cancel these as she did not want the sofa. Hitachi has sent out arrears letters and 
contacted her over the outstanding balance.
Mrs C made a complaint to this service. Our investigator recommended that her 
complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs C had sought to reject the sofa bed within 30 
days of its delivery and that Hitachi hadnt handled this request fairly. It hadnt arranged 
for the sofa bed to be independently inspected, nor had it looked at the damage to Mrs 
Cs front door.
Our investigator also said that, as the bank had upheld Mrs Cs chargeback claim against 
the retailer following its investigation, he was satisfied that the sofa bed had been found 
to be of poor quality. He said it would be fair for the agreement now to be cancelled and 
any payments under the agreement to be reimbursed with interest, for any information 
about the agreement to be removed from Mrs Cs credit file, and for Hitachi to pay Mrs C 
£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty 
sofa bed and its handling of her request to reject the item.
Hitachi says it will agree as a gesture of goodwill to collect the sofa, cancel the 
agreement and reimburse Mrs Cs payments but says that an award of £400 
compensation is unfair as the sofa bed is of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs C says that, while she is happy with the view to end the contract and have the sofa 
bed collected, she feels the award of compensation is inadequate. She says she had to 
give away her original sofa which was still in good condition to make room for this one 
and will now need to replace it. Mrs C also says that Hitachi has unfairly been pursuing 
the outstanding payments and she has been very distressed by the contact it has made 
with her, as it appears to be ignoring her vulnerability. Mrs C says that in light of its 
treatment of her it would be fair for Hitachi to pay for the cost of the replacement sofa 
together with the £400 compensation.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Our investigator had based his decision largely on the basis that the matter had already 
been investigated by the bank and the sofa bed had been found to be of poor quality, and 
so had thought a breach of contract had occurred. Following further information from the 
bank it had been established that Mrs Cs claim was not in fact upheld by the bank 
following the dispute by the retailer. The bank had decided, as a gesture of goodwill, to 
cover the deposit cost and so hadnt debited this amount back to Mrs Cs credit card 
balance when her claim had been declined.  I was satisfied that this has been a genuine 
misunderstanding by Mrs C who believed her chargeback claim had been upheld and so 
took no issue with the information she had provided about that.
In certain circumstances section 75 of the CCA gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
a refund against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role was to decide 
whether Hitachi had handled Mrs Cs section 75 claim fairly and reasonably.
Here, Mrs C had complained that there was a breach of contract as the sofa bed 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She had also said that the model she had received 
wasnt the same as the model she had seen and tested by sitting on at the showroom.
Id seen that a number of different issues had been raised about the sofa bed and its 
quality. Id seen that Mrs C didnt believe the sofa bed she saw and tried in the store was 
of the same quality as the one that was delivered. There were concerns raised about the 
age of the sofa bed, and the speed with which it was delivered, after Mrs C had been told 
she would have to wait many weeks. I had also seen a picture of the showroom model and 
the advertised description of the item.
Looking at the order forms for the sofa bed. Id seen that there were two of them. One 
note said delivery would be several weeks away, and the other said the item was 
available and delivery would be within two to four weeks. I didnt think I had sufficient 
evidence to say that the sofa bed that was delivered and sofa bed in the showroom 
werent the same make and model. Id seen that the sofa had label stating it had been 
made in 2018 but, from that, I couldnt say the sofa bed was an old or rejected model. I 
didnt think it would be unusual for pieces of furniture to have been made and stored for 
some time before sale. I hadnt seen any evidence that Mrs C had been told the sofa 
bed was to be made particularly for her.
Mrs C said she had found the sofa bed very uncomfortable and complained about the 
quality of the mattress. I didnt know what had been said between Mrs C and the 
salesman at the showroom as to any requirements regarding comfort/support that was 
required from the sofa bed. Id seen it was advertised that it would give comfort and 
support but I thought that was a fairly generic term and didnt suggest the sofa bed would 
provide the level comfort from an orthopaedic mattress for instance. 
I also thought I hadnt seen sufficient evidence to say that the mattress wasnt the one that 
came with the sofa bed. It was very hard to judge from the picture of the showroom 
model, which had shown the sofa bed open and made up as a bed, as to the actual depth 
of the mattress. I took into account that a sofa bed mattress by design would need to be 
thinner than a bed mattress as it has to folded up. I also thought that comfort was a 
subjective matter, there could be a number of reasons why the sofa bed had seemed less 
comfortable and it wasnt enough to say that it was of lower quality than the one in the 
showroom. So, looking at the advertisement for the sofa bed I didnt think I could say it 
was mis-represented as to its comfort.However, Mrs C had also raised other concerns about the quality of the sofa bed, in 
particular about the puckering and creasing of the seat covers, the piping on the cushions, 
the way the seams didnt match up on the cushions and the sofa beds arms. Hitachi had 
agreed to have the sofa bed independently inspected but then had cancelled this, which, I 
thought was unfair to Mrs C. An independent inspection would have provided an objective 
view of the sofa bed as, although it was inspected on two separate occasions by a 
technician, they were sent by the retailer and I thought it had been reasonable for Mrs C to 
be unhappy about the views they had expressed and to question their independence.
Id seen the two reports which had also come with photos, and Id also seen photos taken 
by Mrs C. Looking at these, I didnt think the creasing on the seat cushions would be 
considered as within normal range as it had a loose appearance and with clear creases 
visible which I didnt think a reasonable person would expect from a new leather sofa bed. 
As Mrs C had complained about the cushions within a short time of taking the sofa bed, I 
was satisfied this wasnt an issue of fair wear and tear. I also thought it was fair to assume 
that as Mrs C had found the sofa bed uncomfortable to sit on that it hadnt been subject to 
excessive use.
While I appreciated the technicians that had viewed the sofa bed were of the view that it 
was up to manufacturers standard, I thought it was fair that I took into account they 
werent independent to the store when they recorded their opinion and, looking at the 
photos of the sofa, I disagreed with the contents of the reports about the cushions.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that goods supplied will be 
of satisfactory quality. For the reasons I had given, I didnt think this sofa bed was and I 
thought Mrs C had activated her short term right to reject the goods.
I appreciated Mrs C hadnt reported the damage to her front door straight away, but she 
had reported it to the first technician that visited her property. They had noted the damage 
on their report, and, I believe, had also photographed it. I thought Hitachi should have 
sent someone to assess that rather than relying on the delivery note alone. Id seen that 
Mrs C disputed signing the delivery notice but even if she had signed it, she might not 
have been aware of the damage to the front door when doing so. She said it was only 
noticed later when she had come home after going out on the day the sofa bed had been 
delivered. I thought Mrs Cs explanation was entirely plausible.
I also thought that, looking at the evidence, it had been very clear to Hitachi that Mrs C 
was a vulnerable consumer. This had been raised by Hitachi itself early on when Mrs C 
had first made her complaint and it was also aware that she had suffered a personal loss 
that had had a significant impact on her. Looking at the history of this matter I didnt think 
Hitachi had treated her fairly as I thought it could have done more to assist her with her 
complaint. And, while I appreciated Mrs C hadnt had the right to cancel the direct debits 
until this matter was resolved, I thought Hitachi could also have taken steps to ensure she 
wasnt receiving letters and calls about the outstanding arrears while this matter was 
ongoing it was aware how distressing Mrs C was finding this contact. So, I thought it was 
fair for Mrs C to receive compensation for the unnecessary distress caused by dealing 
with the faulty sofa bed and also for Hitachis handling of her account.
Looking at the impact on Mrs C I thought the sum of £400 as compensation was fair and 
reasonable and this would also allow Mrs C to address any damage to her front door 
should she choose to do so.
Id seen that Mrs C felt that it would have been fair for Hitachi to pay to replace the sofa 
bed with a similar model to the one she had given away, but Im afraid I disagreed with 
that. Where goods were of unsatisfactory quality the usual remedy was to put the consumer back in the position they would have been had that breach of contract not 
occurred. I thought it was fair for Hitachi to reimburse Mrs C all her payments made under 
the agreement as it appeared she had made little use of the sofa bed. She could then use 
this reimbursement towards a new sofa.
So, for the reasons given above, I was intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint that the sofa 
bed wasnt of satisfactory quality. I asked Hitachi to do the following:
Arrange for the collection of the sofa bed at a mutually agreeable date and 
time and at no cost to Mrs C.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mrs Cs credit file.
Reimburse Mrs C with all the payments she had made under this agreement 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs C £400 compensation for the unnecessary distress caused by dealing 
with the faulty sofa bed, the damage to her front door and the handling of her 
account.
Neither Mrs C nor Hitachi have asked me to reconsider any parts of my provisional 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed my provisional decision, I still think my outcomes were fair and based on 
the evidence I had seen. As neither party has disagreed with the conclusions reached or 
provided any new information, I havent changed my mind and I am, therefore, upholding 
Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons given above.
Putting things right
Im asking Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do the following:
Arrange for the collection of the sofa bed at a mutually agreeable date and 
time and at no cost to Mrs C.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mrs Cs credit file.
Reimburse Mrs C with all the payments she has made under this agreement 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs C £400 compensation for the unnecessary distress caused by dealing 
with the faulty sofa bed, the damage to her front door and the handling of her 
account.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should put 
things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman