DRN-3700364
The complaint
Mr A complains TSB Bank plc provided mis-leading information on the length of the fixed 
term on his mortgage when he took it out in 2017. He says this meant he was unable to 
move to a better mortgage product when it was available. 
What happened
Mr A took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage with TSB in August 2017. In May 2022 he 
contacted TSB to discuss his options to switch his mortgage to a new rate, because TSB 
allowed customers to switch to another rate three months prior to the fixed rate ending. But 
TSB told him he was unable to switch at the time because his fixed rate wasnt due to end 
until 31 October 2022. 
Mr A complained to TSB because he was unhappy the mortgage product was marketed at a 
five-year fixed rate, but he ended up being tied into the rate for longer than hed expected. 
TSB considered his complaint but didnt uphold it. It says the details of the fixed rate were 
provided in the mortgage offer sent to Mr A, so although the product lasted longer than the 
five years advertised it says its fixed rates have a specific end date which means they can 
end before or after the five years depending on when the mortgage starts. 
Mr A remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt Mr A would have been aware of the 
mortgage terms and when the fixed rate would come to an end, so they didnt think TSB had 
acted unfairly. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Its for TSB to decide the types and lengths of mortgage products they offer and how they 
decide to market them. But TSB should make clear to its customers the terms attached to 
those products before a customer commits to them. I understand the reasons why Mr A may 
have thought that the five-year fixed rate would last the five years it was marketed. So Ive 
looked to see if TSB clearly set out how long the fixed rate would run for in the information it 
provided him before he took out the mortgage. 
Ive looked at the notes provided by TSB of the meeting with Mr A  these confirm Mr A was 
fully aware of the terms and conditions of the mortgage. The notes dont specifically refer to 
the length of the fixed term, so Ive gone on to consider the further information provided to 
Mr A prior to him completing his mortgage. 
TSB has provided us with a copy of the updated mortgage offer sent to Mr A dated 27 July 
2017. The offer letter says:
The mortgage illustration sets out many of the key terms of your mortgage.You 
should compare the mortgage illustration given to you before you applied for this 
mortgage with the illustration included in this offer, to see how the details may have 
changed. 
The mortgage illustration sets out the following:
In section 2  Main features of the loan
AAJ778  An initial fixed rate until 31/10/2022 followed by the lender variable rate. 
In section 3  Interest rate and other costs
Interest rate 1.99% fixed. After 31/10/2022, the rate that will apply is the TSB 
Homeowner Variable Rate, currently 3.74% until the end of the term.
In section 5  Amount of each instalment
One payment of £2,734.12.
Then:
£1,889.05 until 31st October 2022
£2,270.37 until 31 August 2046
And in section 7  Early repayment
Product Basis of charge
AAJ778 5.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/10/2018
4.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/10/2019
3.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/10/2020
2.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/10/2021
1.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/10/2022
Looking at the information provided in the mortgage offer Im satisfied it clearly set out that 
the fixed term would end on 31 October 2022 and not a set five-year period from the date  
Mr A would have completed his mortgage. If this is not what Mr A wanted, I would have 
expected him to question this when he received the mortgage offer. 
While I understand why Mr A thought his fixed rate product would end after exactly five 
years, I cant say TSB acted unfairly in the information it provided him on the mortgage 
product. If Mr A didnt want his mortgage to last for this period, he could have decided not to 
go ahead with it at the time. So it follows that I dont think TSB acted unreasonably in not 
allowing him to switch his mortgage product sooner.  My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman