DRN-2631886
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled his claim.
What happened
Mr M had a travel insurance policy with UKI. He regularly travelled to and from Tanzania to 
visit family. In October 2017 Mr M was in Tanzania to see his new born baby but 
unfortunately he fell ill. He was diagnosed with Malaria and Typhoid so was unable to travel 
back to the UK on the original flight hed booked.
Mr M made a claim with UKI to cover the cost of a new flight. UKI asked him to meet with 
their claims inspector but Mr M said he felt overwhelmed and couldnt cope so put the claim 
on hold until August 2018. By this point UKI had closed the claim and issued a final 
response on Mr Ms concerns about his treatment during the claim. Mr M complained to this 
service about the way UKI had treated him. But it was referred to us outside the six-month 
time limit that applies so we issued a view in August 2018 explaining we didnt have 
jurisdiction to consider events up to this point. 
However, UKI agreed to re-open Mr Ms claim and again arranged for Mr M to meet with 
their claims inspector. But in error, Mr M was copied into an internal email between UKIs 
claims handler and their agent, the claims inspector. He was unhappy with the remarks 
made about him in this piece of internal correspondence, so he complained to UKI and the 
claims inspector was replaced. 
Mr M met the new claims inspector in January 2019 but was unhappy with the way he was 
treated. Mr M said the agent asked intrusive questions and took an unnecessary photograph 
of him. Mr M contacted the agent afterwards to raise concerns about the photograph and the 
agent reassured him it was for identification purposes and apologised for any distress it had 
caused. He also confirmed the image would be deleted. 
Mr M also made a subject access request to UKI but was unhappy with the data provided so 
he complained to the ICO.  Much of the information Mr M had requested didnt fall within the 
scope of a SAR, but the ICO did ask UKI to review a certain part of Mr Ms SAR to establish 
if there was any personal data within these communications that could be provided to Mr M. 
UKI was instructed to respond to Mr M on this point and they had to let the ICO know if the 
data was covered by an exemption and therefore wouldnt be provided to Mr M.  
In December 2019 Mr M referred a further complaint to our service. Mr M wanted UKI to 
cover the cost of his hospital treatment and his food and drink consumption during his 
extended stay. He was also unhappy with the way he had been treated during the claim and 
his SARs and asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and she didnt think UKI had been 
unreasonable in the way they treated Mr M. And she felt the claim had been handled fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree. He made several arguments which Ive summarised below, he said;
UKI had not provided a sufficient response to his SAR following the recommendation 
from the ICO to do so.
 
UKI was unreasonable to not settle the claim until recently because he had provided 
all the relevant documents when he originally raised the claim in 2017. 
He no longer wanted to pursue costs for food and additional expenses at the hotel 
because they hadnt provided him with a breakdown of these costs. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr M has provided a detailed of account of what has happened during this ongoing claim. 
Although I may not refer to everything, Ive carefully considered and taken account of all the 
submissions from both sides. 
Discrimination
Its clear Mr M remains upset about the internal email he was copied into by error from UKI. 
He said the remarks about his residency were unfair, degrading and discriminatory against 
his race. UKI has explained this comment was made due to concerns over the amount of 
time Mr M spent in Tanzania because they only provide cover for people who remain in the 
UK for at least six months of each year. As Mr M travels so back and forth to Tanzania so 
often due to his family Im satisfied this was a reasonable concern for an insurer to have. 
I can see UKI responded to Mr Ms discrimination complaint saying they hadnt found any 
failings in the service provided. And as requested they replaced the claims inspector. The 
same claims handler continued to look after the claim, and although Mr M says this made 
him feel uncomfortable, I cant see that she treated him unfairly. But I do appreciate the 
internal communication error wouldve been unpleasant for Mr M. 
Distress and inconvenience  
Mr M has made submissions about the distress he was caused by UKIs poor treatment 
whilst he was stranded in Tanzania in 2017. And the way he was treated when he first 
returned. But as explained, UKI issued a final response on this in November 2017. And we 
do not have jurisdiction to consider UKIs actions up to this point because Mr M referred his 
previous complaint about this issue too late to our service. 
So Ive considered whether Mr is entitled to compensation for any distress or inconvenience 
caused by UKI since the parties re-engaged on this claim in August 2018. The meeting with 
the claims inspector was re-booked for September 2018 but due to a family bereavement Mr 
M had to go to Tanzania for, he was unable to attend the meeting. Im satisfied UKI hasnt 
caused any delay here. 
As Mr M was unhappy with the internal correspondence he was copied into, he complained 
to UKI and the claims inspector was replaced. So I think UKI responded promptly here. Mr M met the new claims inspector in January 2019 but then there was a delay with Mr M signing 
the disclaimer for medical and accommodation information until 11 March 2019. And I 
havent seen anything else to suggest UKI delayed the progression of Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M said its unfair UKI didnt settle the claim initially because he had provided all the 
relevant documents when he originally raised the claim in 2017. But I dont think UKI are 
responsible for the length of time it took for the claim to reach a settlement. Although UKI 
had the documentation provided by Mr M, they were entitled to conduct further investigations 
to validate the claim. I understand why Mr M felt he was being treated differently, but this can 
sometimes be expected during a second claim for similar circumstances. Ive considered 
UKIs actions and I think this was a proportionate response in the circumstances.
Mr M has also raised concerns about how he was treated by the claims inspector. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest UKIs agent acted unreasonably. I understand Mr M is 
particularly upset by the photo taken by the inspector. But the agent has apologised directly 
to Mr M and explained the image was for identification purposes. He also reassured Mr M 
the imaged had been deleted following the concerns hed raised. Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable response.
Subject Access Request 
Mr M said UKI didnt provide a sufficient response to his SAR following the recommendation 
from the ICO to do so. So Ive carefully considered the ICO report dated 19 July 2019. 
Although the ICO said much of the information Mr M requested didnt fall within the scope of 
a SAR. It also said:
However, your request for the information at point 11 in UK Insurances letter may in our 
view fall within the scope of a SAR. In view of this we have written to UK Insurance to ask 
them to review this part of your request to establish if there is any personal data within these 
communications that can be provided to you. I have asked UK Insurance to review your 
request and respond to you directly by 19 July 2019. However, if UK Insurance are 
withholding your personal data under an exemption I have asked them to confirm this to us, 
with details of the relevant exemption, by the same date.
UKI said it revisited point 11 as instructed and provided Mr M with the remaining personal 
data he was entitled to. And on 22 August 2019 the ICO confirmed it doesnt require UKI to 
take any further measures in this case and now consider the matter closed. So Im satisfied 
UKI didnt fail to follow the recommendation from the ICO or treat Mr M unfairly in relation to 
his SAR. 
Data breach
Mr M has said he was upset and deeply troubled by UKI requesting his medical information 
in November 2017 when he didnt provide any consent to do so. But no information was 
actually received in response to this request and UKI have apologised for this error, so I 
dont think UKI need to do anything further here. 
Medical costs
Ive looked into Mr Ms claim for counselling costs from Arafa Ses Charitable Dispensary that 
remain outstanding. Despite considerable effort contacting this facility, UKI were unable to 
validate this cost because there was a change in management at the dispensary and the 
previous doctor took all the medical records with him. So UKI were unable to confirm Mr Ms 
attendance and the price he paid for any treatment. Our investigator also asked Mr M for proof of payment for the service he received, and Mr M 
has now provided a letter from Doctor Saleh which confirms he attended the facility for 
counselling treatment on the day in question. However, this evidence still doesnt show what 
cost Mr M incurred, so I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to say they are unable to cover 
this cost based on the information provided. UKIs terms and conditions state we can refuse 
to pay any claim where you have not provided adequate receipts, bills or evidence to support 
your claim. So Im unable to ask UKI to pay for services when there is no proof to show how 
much was charged.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman