DRN-1679529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI in 1988. The sale happened in a meeting in branch at the 
same time as they were arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
West Brom BS only has limited documentation from the time of the sale, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult 
to decide. Therefore, in reaching my decision, I have considered the evidence that we do 
have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened. I have also taken into 
account the time that has elapsed and how this may have affected Mr and Mrs Bs memory 
of the sale.
Mr and Mrs B say that the PPI was presented as a condition of the sale. From what we know 
of West Brom BSs sales processes at the time, the policy would normally have been 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs B have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was such a long time ago that it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
Ive given serious consideration to what they have said but, on balance, I consider it is more 
likely that they were given a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that they probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing 
so.
West Brom BS says it probably advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy. That means 
that, in recommending the policy to them, it needed to ensure that it met the couples needs. 
And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for them.
Mr and Mrs B say they would both have received generous sick pay from their employer if 
they were off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than they would have received full pay for. Theyve mentioned other 
insurance but that doesnt fully replicate the cover provided by the PPI policy. And they 
havent mentioned any other means, such as savings, that they could fall back on. So, it 
seems to me that Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent advised that they could seek alternative lenders for the 
mortgage borrowing or other providers of PPI. But West Brom BS only had to tell them about 
the products that it was selling. It did not have a duty to inform Mr and Mrs B of other 
products available on the open market.
Its possible that West Brom BS didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs B werent 
affected by any of those things. As I consider that they had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything West Brom BS did wrong, so 
theres nothing that West Brom BS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman