DRN-3030380
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs H says Furness Building Society (FBS) mis-sold Mr H PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think FBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and Mr H 
chose to take it out. I say this because FBS has sent us a copy of the paperwork 
available from the time the policy was sold. Mr H completed and signed a separate 
application form from the mortgage application to take the policy. The policy was not a 
requirement of the mortgage.
FBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr H enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr H. Although Mr H says he had a 
medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to 
change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because I havent seen enough to 
show this condition continued to cause Mr H ongoing problems, he would have thought 
he might need to claim for. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr H 
would have declined the cover had FBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant FBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means FBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman