DRN-3574852
The complaint
Ms M has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-
sold a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan which led to her 
suffering a financial loss.
Ms M is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both the CMC and Prudential. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Ms M was employed as a teacher and a member of the Scottish Teachers Superannuation 
Scheme. She was interested in increasing her retirement provision. Prudential advised her to 
start two FSAVC plans which started in January 1992 and April 1998, respectively.
This complaint
The CMC, on behalf of Ms M, complained to Prudential about the suitability of the advice to 
start the two FSAVC plans.
Prudential upheld this complaint in part, as follows:
FSAVC plan that started in January 1992  it upheld this part of the complaint 
because it couldnt establish whether it had made Ms M aware that charges for the  
FSAVC plan were likely to be higher than the in-house AVC scheme. So it offered          
Ms M £19,309.50 compensation based on a charges only comparison.
FSAVC plan that started in April 1998  it didnt uphold this part of the complaint 
because it was satisfied it had explained to Ms M how the FSAVC plan worked and 
made her aware of the in-house options available, including pointing out that the 
charges for the FSAVC plan were likely to be higher than the in-house AVC scheme. 
So it was satisfied that Ms M had made an informed decision to start the FSAVC 
plan.
The CMC didnt accept the final response provided by Prudential regarding the FSAVC plan 
that started in April 1998. It continued to believe that the plan had been mis-sold and so 
referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator limited his assessment to the sale of the FSAVC plan that started in                        
April 1998. He recommended that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Prudential had complied with the regulatory expectations for tied advisers set out in the 
Regulatory Update published by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) in 1996 regarding 
the sale of AVCs and FSAVCs (RU20).
The CMC didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided substantial comments in 
response. In summary, it stated that it didnt agree that Prudential had complied with RU20 
at the time it advised Ms M and that, had she been made sufficiently aware of the critical 
differences between the FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC scheme, she wouldve 
undoubtedly chosen the in-house option.
Our investigator considered the CMCs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Scope of this final decision
Prudential previously offered compensation to Ms M in respect of the advice it provided in 
connection with the FSAVC plan that started in January 1992. So its not necessary for me to 
consider the suitability of that advice. All that remains is for me to consider the suitability of 
the advice in connection with the FSAVC plan that started in April 1998. Ive considered this 
below.
1998 advice
The rules and requirements relating to AVCs and FSAVCs have varied over time. Details are 
on our website. In 1996, the PIA published RU20. This set out different expectations for tied 
advisers and independent financial advisers (IFAs). The obligations placed on IFAs were 
more onerous. 
The advice here, in 1998, postdates the PIAs update. Ms M was advised by a tied adviser 
representing Prudential only and not an IFA. So at the time of Prudentials advice, in 
accordance with RU20, it was required to:
draw Ms Ms attention to the in-house AVC scheme;
discuss the differences between the FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC schemes in 
generic terms, including the likely lower charges of in-house AVC schemes; and
direct Ms M to her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees for further 
information about the in-house AVC scheme
In response to our investigators assessment, the CMC stated that under RU20 it wasnt 
sufficient for Prudential to simply make a passing comment that the charges of the FSAVC 
plan were likely to be higher than the in-house AVC scheme. Rather, it stated that Prudential 
was required to highlight the difference in the charging structure. I take this to mean that 
the CMC believes Prudential shouldve carried out a personalised charges comparison so 
that it could establish and highlight the cost difference to Ms M. But this isnt what RU20 
specified for tied advisers. The PIAs expectations at the time, as set out in RU20, required 
Prudential to discuss the differences in generic terms. So informing a client in broad terms that the charges of a FSAVC plan were likely to be higher than the in-house AVC scheme is, 
in my view, sufficient.
Ive reviewed the information provided to Ms M before she accepted the recommendation to 
start the FSAVC plan in April 1998. This included the provision of a four page 
Recommendation report which Ms M signed on 3 March 1998 confirming she had read it 
and that the contents had been fully explained by Prudentials representative. Under section 
2 titled, In-house and Added Years AVC Schemes, it stated:
We discussed the advantages and disadvantages of making Additional Voluntary 
Contributions to your company scheme or taking a separate Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution. You are aware that there may be the possibility of buying 
past years or having added year options within the company scheme, however you 
are particularly attracted to the flexibility of a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution. This flexibility includes portability and wider investment choice, together 
with the option of taking the benefits from this Free Standing AVC early, if you left 
your current employment, whereas you could not with an AVC. The charges within 
this plan however are likely to be greater than under your company scheme. You can 
obtain more information on your company scheme from your Employers or Scheme 
Trustees.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Prudential met the requirements set out in RU20. Theres 
reference to a discussion that took place during which Ms M was made aware about the 
availability of the in-house AVC scheme, including the options to buy Past Added Years or 
an AVC plan. She was also made aware, in generic terms, of the advantages and 
disadvantages of starting a FSAVC plan compared to the in-house option, including the likely 
lower charges of the in-house AVC scheme. Finally, Prudential also explained that Ms M 
could obtain more information from her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees.
The evidence shows that Ms M wanted to pay additional contributions to increase her 
retirement provision. She had capacity to make further provision. As a tied adviser, 
Prudentials representative could only consider the suitability of Prudentials FSAVC plan for 
Ms M. On balance, Im satisfied that Ms M was given enough information during the advice 
process in 1998 to understand the important differences between the in-house schemes and 
FSAVC plan before making her decision. As such, I think the recommendation for the 
FSAVC plan could be regarded as suitable in the circumstances in the context of the 
limitations placed on a tied adviser at the time.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Prudential  
to pay compensation to Ms M in connection with the FSAVC plan that started in April 1998  
or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman