DRN-2552597
The complaint
Mr K and Ms S complain that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) mis-sold a 
home emergency policy and that an exclusion clause, wasnt made clear. 
What happened
Mr K and Ms S contacted Lloyds to make a claim under their home emergency policy for a 
toilet that was blocked. Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that the claim wouldnt be 
classed as an emergency as they had other toilets in their home, that still worked. 
Mr K and Ms S paid privately to have the toilet unblocked at a cost of £80.They then raised a 
complaint to Lloyds as they felt that the exclusion clause (which said what wasnt covered 
was unblocking a toilet, if there was another functioning toilet in the home) had not been 
made clear to them during both the online and phone call sale processes. 
In its final response, Lloyds accepted that its customer service had been lacking, as there 
had been delays in responding to Mr K and Ms S complaint. It also accepted that there had 
been a delay in sending out the final response letter. For this, it awarded a total of £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. It maintained that the claim was 
declined due to the exclusion clause. 
Mr K and Ms S were unhappy with this outcome as they said Lloyds had failed to make it 
clear that they wouldnt be covered. They were dissatisfied that the terms and conditions of 
the policy arrived 10 days after the policy had started and they were upset by the delays. So, 
they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She concluded that Lloyds had made Mr K and Ms S aware of the terms and conditions of 
the policy, which also included the exclusion clause. She also said that Lloyds had 
recognised its poor customer service and had awarded compensation for this which was 
reasonable. Consequently, there was nothing further she could fairly ask Lloyds to do to 
resolve the complaint. 
Mr K and Ms S didnt agree with our investigator. They maintained that the exclusion clause 
wasnt made clear from the outset. Lloyds had failed to provide a copy of the online form that 
they had completed, and this was important evidence. So, Mr K and Ms S asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr K and Ms S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I note that Mr K and Ms S have made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, I have focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues. The main issues here are what actually happened when the 
policy was sold, what shouldve happened and whether Lloyds did something wrong. 
Mr K and Ms S purchased a home emergency policy in December 2019. Mr K describes 
making the initial enquiry online which generated a quote. Which was then followed up by a 
phone call to Lloyds to complete the sales process. 
One of the issues of the complaint was that Mr K said that the online quote only asked him to 
declare how many bathrooms he had and not how many toilets. Mr K has asked for copies of 
the form that he submitted from Lloyds. But Lloyds didnt have a copy of the form. So, it 
provided a copy of the documents, once the quote had been converted into a policy. I asked 
Mr K if he had a copy of the quote that he completed, regrettably he was unable to provide 
this. In these circumstances, I must consider the evidence to hand. 
Lloyds provided a copy of a screenshot of the relevant question regarding toilets and 
bathrooms. What it asked was: the number of bathrooms including en-suites and separate 
toilets, the customer has answered 2. I asked Lloyds to confirm if this question would have 
been asked on the quote that Mr K obtained before proceeding with the sale. It has 
confirmed that this wouldve been the same question. 
In these circumstances, I think it is more likely than not that Lloyds wouldve asked this 
question and more likely than not that Mr K responded with the answer two. So, I am 
satisfied that Lloyds did ask (during the online quotation process) how many toilets Mr K and 
Ms S had in the property. Consequently, I think it also shows that they had more than one 
toilet in the property. 
I have next looked at what happened during the phone call between Mr K and Lloyds. Lloyds 
didnt provide any advice regarding the risk or details of the policy, most of the call was taken 
up with discussions about the premium and how it would be paid. Further into the call the 
advisor went through the refund, cancellation information, as well as enquiring if any of the 
information on the policy was incorrect. I think this gave Mr K and Ms S the opportunity to 
raise any issues that couldve concerned them about the policy. But this wasnt done. 
On this basis I think that Lloyds provided a non-advised sale. This means it didnt advise or 
recommend that Mr K and Ms S buy the policy. It simply provided information to them and 
left it to them to decide if the policy was suitable to meet their needs. However, Lloyds still 
needed to give enough, clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy, so that Mr 
K and Ms S could make an informed choice. 
In addition, Mr K and Ms S accepted that they obtained a quote online and that they chose a 
policy that suited their needs.  So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Lloyds to 
have emphasized the terms of the policy. Consequently, we wouldnt reasonably expect 
Lloyds to explain everything the policy did and didnt cover. But it did need to highlight any 
significant, unusual or onerous terms at the point of sale which mightve affected Mr K and 
Ms S decision whether or not to buy the policy.  
I have considered whether the request of how many bathrooms/toilets on a policy would be 
deemed significant, unusual or onerous. Based on what I know about home emergency 
policies, I dont think this is a particularly significant, unusual or onerous term. So, I think this 
is another reason why Lloyds wouldnt have had to highlight it to Mr K and Ms S. I have also reviewed the policy documents that were sent. It should be noted that during the 
call between Mr K and the Lloyds adviser, she told Mr K to make sure that he read the policy 
documents when they arrived. She also told him that he had 14 days from the date of arrival 
of the documents to check whether the policy was suitable for them. I think the exclusion 
was set out in the policy and it was up to Mr K and Ms S to check it was right for them. 
On the policy document, it shows in bold writing on page four that the policy doesnt cover 
for everything. Later, on page 15, it says under what is not covered, is the unblocking of a 
toilet if another functioning toilet can still be used. Mr K and Ms S confirmed there were other 
toilets that could still be used. Lloyds said that as there were other toilets available, it 
couldnt class the blocked toilet as an emergency and so it relied on that exclusion term, to 
reasonably decline the claim. I understand that Mr K and Ms S were unhappy to pay 
privately for the toilet to be unblocked, but I cant agree that Lloyds were unreasonable or 
unfair in relying on this term to decline the claim.
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think the policy was mis-sold as Mr K and Ms 
S had the opportunity to consider the terms to see if they were sufficient for their needs. 
Also, I think that the £50 paid, for the trouble and upset caused, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I think the compensation of £50 which Lloyds 
Bank Insurance Services Limited has already paid, for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair 
and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman