DRN-3702539
The complaint
Miss B complains about the repairs and level of service provided by Haven Insurance 
Company Limited following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B was involved in an accident and made a claim on her policy. After three months, 
Havens approved repairer hadnt assessed the car for repairs. Miss B was unhappy that she 
had called Haven 30 times to chase up the assessment. And she was unhappy that her car 
was unsafe to drive. She said the windscreen was badly cracked. 
Haven said that its repairer had assessed the car from photographs provided by Miss B and 
found the car to be mobile and safe to drive. It said the cracked windscreen wasnt linked to 
the circumstances of the accident. It thought it had developed after the car was first 
inspected and so it declined to repair this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Miss B had reported the 
crack when she notified Haven of the accident. She saw that Miss B had provided a 
photograph of the cracked windscreen date stamped after the accident and before the car 
had been inspected. And so she thought it was likely to have been caused by the accident. 
She thought Haven should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy and pay Miss B £250 compensation for its delays. 
Haven replied that its repair centre had provided photographs taken when the car was 
assessed and that no crack was evident. It said that if it had been there, then its repairer 
would have photographed it. And so it declined to cover it under the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Havens repairer replaced the windscreen, but Miss B paid a further policy 
excess as Haven declined to carry out the repair under the initial claim. I can understand that 
Miss B feels frustrated that this matter hasnt been concluded a year after the accident.
I can see that a month after the accident, Haven confirmed with the repairer that it had 
received Miss Bs photographs of the damage to her car and an estimate had been done. 
But it took nearly three months for Havens repairer to collect Miss Bs car for repairs. Haven 
said this delay was due to the pandemic. But Haven has a responsibility to deal with claims 
promptly and I think this delay was excessive. From its file I cant see that it was proactive in 
chasing the repairer or seeking an alternative. It didnt update Miss B and so she had to 
pursue it for news of her repairs. 
Haven apologised to Miss B for this delay. But I dont think that is sufficient. Our Investigator 
thought Haven should pay Miss B £250 compensation for this delay. From what I can see, 
Miss B was mobile during this time. So I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation, in 
keeping with our published guidance, for the impact this delay had.  
Miss B was adamant that the windscreen had been damaged in the accident, but Haven 
thought it was unrelated. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a 
vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an 
insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its 
decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Miss B repeatedly told Haven that she had reported the damage to the windscreen in the 
first notification of loss call. She asked Haven to listen to this call. But I cant see that it did 
so. However, I can see from its file notes that Haven accepts that Miss B did report the 
cracked windscreen when she first notified the claim. And it was then added to the repairs 
estimate. 
From Havens file notes, I can see that the repairer added the windscreen repair to its initial 
repairs estimate but it was later removed. Havens engineer said it did this because the 
repairer hadnt provided any images of the crack and it couldnt relate it to the accident. The 
engineer said he could see no connection between the cracked windscreen and a minor 
right hand side collision to both doors. Haven also said that its repairer would have 
photographed the windscreen if there had been a crack.
Haven speculated that there may have been a chip in the windscreen that wasnt evident in 
the repairers initial photographs and this developed over time and was clearly evident when 
the car was later checked in for repairs. 
The crack isnt visible in the unclear initial photographs attached to the repairers estimate. 
But, from what I can understand, these photographs are those that Miss B twice sent 
through to the repairer a month following the accident. Miss B said she included a 
photograph of the cracked windscreen. And I think its unfair for Haven to penalise Miss B 
because the repairer didnt include this photograph in its estimate. 
But Miss B provided a date stamped photograph taken shortly after the accident that shows 
the crack. I cant see that Haven has considered this photograph despite our Investigator 
bringing it to its attention. And I think Haven has accepted that Miss B did report the crack 
when she first notified her claim. So I think its comments about the crack developing over 
time are unsupported speculation. 
The crack is very significant. And I think if it had been there before the accident, then Miss B 
would most likely have made a claim to have it repaired. Im not satisfied that Haven has 
established that the cracked windscreen is unrelated to the accident. 
So I cant say that Haven has considered all the available evidence. And Im not satisfied 
that Haven has justified its decision to not repair the windscreen under Miss Bs initial claim. 
I think Haven should now deal with the repair or replacement of the windscreen under her 
initial claim. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Settle Miss Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
2. Pay Miss B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays 
in dealing with her claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman