DRN-2710189
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) didnt advise her that 
her credit file would be adversely affected when she took a 60 day breathing space on her  
credit card payments. And it didnt amend her credit file when it agreed to do so. She would 
like the situation rectified.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
In a phone call in April 2020 M&S made it clear that, in response to Mrs Ss request 
for a payment holiday, it could place her account on hold for two months. But this 
would result in late payment markers being put on her credit file. So, I think Mrs S 
knew there would be an impact on her credit file if her account was put on hold.
I understand M&S has now rectified the credit file. Its unfortunate it took a while to do 
so. But I dont find its explanation that it took longer than it should due to current 
circumstances leading to a high volume of such requests unreasonable. It has paid 
Mrs S a total of £100 compensation which I think it reasonable in the circumstances
Mrs S has told us that she has lost out financially as a result of the adverse 
information on her credit file. She has evidenced an application for car finance and 
one for a mortgage were declined. But from what I have seen there is no evidence to 
say these applications only failed due to the information M&S recorded. But even if 
this were the case Mrs S was  aware there would be an impact on her credit file 
when her account was put on hold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
