DRN-3375129
The complaint
Mr B has complained First Response Finance Ltd has continued to ask him to pay a hire 
purchase agreement after he told them itd been cancelled and hed not taken possession of 
the car.
What happened
Mr B received an arrears notice from First Response and contacted them. He told them hed 
never taken possession of the car in January 2020 when hed signed a hire purchase 
agreement. Hed agreed to pay £261.31 a month. First Response received six monthly 
payments but after the direct debit was cancelled, the account fell into arrears.
First Response confirmed as Mr B had signed the agreement and had made the initial 
payments, they found the suggestion that hed never taken possession of the car odd. 
Theyd have expected him to contact them much sooner. They continued to hold him liable 
for the outstanding credit of £12,281.57. If Mr B hadnt taken possession of the car, they 
advised him to pursue this with the police.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He explained that hed never made the direct 
debit payments. He provided bank statements for the period prior to taking out the hire 
purchase agreement along with a copy of his credit record. He said although hed seen the 
car, he was unhappy with its condition and decided not to proceed with the purchase. Hed 
believed the dealer (who Ill call M) had sorted things out.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He found some of Mr Bs testimony a bit shaky and 
accepted First Responses submission that what had happened with Mr B and his car was 
part of a larger fraud. Overall he didnt believe there was enough evidence to suggest First 
Response should cancel Mr Bs finance agreement.
Mr B was unhappy with the outcome on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I confirm that prior to completing this final decision I asked Mr B to provide us with more 
information about the circumstances of his supposed purchase at M. I was also interested to 
find out the deposit he paid and asked for copies of bank statements after the hire purchase 
agreement was taken out. We received nothing from him.
I also asked First Response to share evidence of what they believed was a wider fraud ring 
where M was involved. They provided this in confidence. Im also aware from Ms liquidators 
annual report that police have progressed to charging Ms director.
In normal circumstances I would share the businesss evidence with the complainant, Mr B 
in this case. However because of the sensitive nature of the information and whats 
confirmed within, I dont believe this would be right. In any case I firmly believe. based on the 
evidence, that Mr B will already be aware of some of these allegations so dont believe 
theres anything to gain from sharing information with him.
Theres no dispute that Mr B took out the agreement. He signed it and received an electronic 
copy from First Response. First Response also texted him to confirm the money had been 
transferred. Mr B told us he didnt believe the agreement went live but based on the 
evidence First Response has shared with us, I find this surprising.
Mr B has told us he didnt make any direct debit payments. A check with the bank where the 
payments were made from confirm this account was not in Mr Bs name. But this doesnt 
explain  nor has Mr B  why a hire purchase agreement, signed by Mr B, would give details 
of another account allowing payments to be taken. Mr B hasnt suggested he didnt complete 
the direct debit instruction that would have been attached to the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr B has told us he noticed a live direct debit on his account and cancelled it. That would be 
fine except the account making the payments wasnt in his name so I wonder how he did 
this.
This evidence fits in with some of the allegations made against Mr B that he may use 
another bank account. Mr B hasnt confirmed this to us.
Ive also seen evidence about Mr B taking out hire purchase agreements with other finance 
providers in January and February 2020 around the same time as this agreement with First 
Response. All of these were arranged through M. I asked Mr B about one of these but 
received no answer.
Mr B told us he viewed the car and decided it was unsuitable. I know that the car Mr B 
purportedly purchased remained in the ownership of a third party and was never available 
for his viewing or consideration. From what I know of this and similar cases involving other 
finance companies, M did show cars that resembled cars the customer thought they were 
buying. However this isnt what Mr B has told us. His testimony doesnt match with the other 
evidence Ive seen.
Im also aware that First Response suggested Mr B contact the police and Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest he did this.
Overall considering everything I know about this complaint and what has happened, I dont 
believe First Response have done anything wrong in continuing to expect Mr B to pay for the 
hire purchase agreement he took out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against First 
Response Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman