DRN-2770478
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do more to protect her when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. Around January 2020 Miss M met a scammer on an online dating site. 
They began speaking regularly and over the following weeks Miss M believed they were 
beginning a romantic relationship.
On 3 February 2020 the scammer convinced Miss M to make a payment of around £4,000 to 
an overseas account. They told her their bank account had been frozen and this payment 
would unfreeze it and allow them to visit Miss M in the UK. On 7 February 2020 Miss M sent 
a further payment of around £3,000 to the same account as the scammer had convinced her 
the previous payment had not resolved the matter as expected.
After the second payment the scammer said the matter had still not been resolved. Miss M 
has said she was then asked to make a payment of £10,000 which caused her to become 
suspicious. She reported the scam to HSBC on 18 February 2020.
HSBC contacted the receiving bank over a week later to request the return of the funds. The 
receiving bank confirmed it was unable to return them. HSBC told Miss M it was unable to 
help any further and she made a complaint as she felt it shouldve done more to stop the 
payments when they were made.
HSBC didnt accept this and she brought the complaint to our service to consider. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. They felt HSBC ought to have recognised the payments 
and intervened when they were made. And, had it done so, it wouldve likely recognised 
Miss M had been the victim of a sophisticated scam.
The investigator asked HSBC to reimburse Miss M for her loss as it had missed an 
opportunity to prevent the payments being made, but HSBC didnt agree with their findings 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Should HSBC have intervened when the payments were made?
Theres no dispute the transfers Miss M made were authorised payments even though she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Like the investigator, I think the payments Miss M made to the scammer were significantly 
unusual enough HSBC ought reasonably to have intervened to satisfy itself Miss M wasnt 
the victim of a fraud or scam.
Having reviewed Miss Ms use of the account for around six months leading up to the 
payments she made to the scammer, I can see the payments of £3,000 and £4,000 are 
significantly larger than any other transactions on the account. The majority of which are 
under £100. It also seems likely based on the income regularly paid into the account, and 
the running balance which was generally between £500 and £1,500 and was never more 
than £3,000, this is a significant amount of money for Miss M to be spending at all. 
In the case of the first payment, the money was being sent to a new payee and an overseas 
account which is unusual compared to the other activity on the account. And within two days 
of each payment, Miss M has moved money from another account to fund the transfers.
Both of the payments shed made to the scammer left Miss M overdrawn on her account  
over £1,000 and £500 respectively. In the six months leading up to the payments in 
question, Miss M had only been overdrawn on one other occasion, in early January and by 
less than £50. 
Whilst I do accept consumers may spend larger amounts on one off purchases every now 
and then, taking all of these factors into account in this particular case, I think the payments 
Miss M made to the scammer were significantly unusual and ought reasonably to have been 
checked further by HSBC in line with its obligations before they were made.
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference?
HSBC has said it doesnt accept it was obliged to do more when Miss M made the payments 
she did. It feels too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of it in terms of 
identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm. In particular 
it has said it shouldnt be expected to second guess its customers or carry out amateur 
detective work in order to establish whether they are the victim of financial harm. It feels its 
required to process a transaction if instructed by a customer.
Ive thought about Quincecare and also the recent Philipp judgment HSBC has referred to in 
its response to the investigators view. But I am mindful that the courts have interpreted 
Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are different to that case. I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment where the judge took a different view about the 
Quincecare duty. 
Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the 
judge has said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I am 
mindful that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, published on our 
website.
Miss M has shown our service the extensive correspondence between her and the scammer 
before she made payment to them. Having reviewed this correspondence Im satisfied she 
was fully taken in by them and they took advantage of her during a time when she was 
clearly emotionally vulnerable.
Had HSBC intervened when Miss M made her first payment to the scammer, as I think it 
reasonably ought to have, I wouldve expected it to have asked probing questions about the 
payments Miss M was making including what they were for, who they were too and whether 
shed met the person shed made the payments to. And I wouldve expected the person 
asking these questions to have sufficiently probed Miss M for answers so as to test the 
plausibility of them.
I say this because I would expect HSBC to have trained its staff to be on the look out for well 
known scams in order to sufficiently protect its customers. And I would expect the questions 
it asks to be in place to identify some of these scams. One such commonly known scam Id 
expect it to be on the look out for is a romance scam. Where a scammer uses dating sites 
such as the one Miss M used to connect with vulnerable people, and grooms them into 
sending them money under the pretence of being in a relationship with them.
Had Miss M been questioned about the payments she was making I cant see any reason 
she wouldnt have explained what she thought she was doing  making a payment to a 
romantic partner or friend shed never met, to unfreeze his bank account. And, that she was 
using her savings and had cashed in bonds to make the payments. And whilst I can see why 
a Miss M was taken in by this story for the reasons Ive already given, I think HSBC staff 
reasonably ought to have identified that what Miss M was describing matched the way this 
type of scam tends to be perpetrated and she was likely the victim of a scam.
Upon identifying this, I wouldve expected HSBC to have given Miss M specific warning 
about romance scams and how they tend to work. HSBC has said it thinks its unlikely 
targeted warnings wouldve prevented Miss M from making the payment. Im not persuaded 
by this. I think its clear from the fact that shortly after she made the payments she grew 
suspicious she was on the look out for scams. And Ive seen from the correspondence 
between her and the scammer she has at times been suspicious enough to ask for further 
verification he was who he said he was.
Unfortunately, as it was a sophisticated scam, the scammer appears to have reassured her. 
And whilst I can see how someone with strong emotional involvement wouldve been taken 
in by the scammers reassurance, Id expect a bank to know better. I think HSBCs 
intervention wouldve likely prevented the payments being made.
But further to this, had Miss M not accepted HSBCs warnings, I wouldve expected it to have 
refused to make the payment altogether. I dont think it wouldve been second guessing the 
customer to do so. I think, based on its knowledge and expertise, HSBC likely wouldve had reasonable cause in this case to suspect its customer was at risk of financial harm and 
therefore wouldve had reasonable cause not to carry out its customers instructions.
So overall, Im satisfied that had it intervened as I think it ought to have done, the payments 
wouldnt have been made. I think HSBC missed an opportunity to uncover the scam and 
therefore should be liable for the money Miss M has lost.
I also think HSBC should make a payment of £200 to Miss M for the distress she has 
suffered as a result of its failure to prevent the scam, and the ongoing worry shes lived with 
after it failed to put the matter right after she made a complaint. Shes explained that money 
she lost was significant to her  shes described it as her life savings. Shes explained that 
the worry and stress shes been under not knowing if it can be returned has had a 
considerable impact on her. Im aware the investigator awarded £100, but Im increasing this 
as I feel £200 is a more suitable reflection of the impact this situation has had on Ms M.
Could Miss M have done more to uncover the scam?
HSBC has described Miss Ms actions as negligent. Its said she ignored warnings not to 
send money on the online dating site she used and carried out no due diligence. Im not sure 
what due diligence HSBC feels Miss M couldve carried out and it hasnt provided any more 
information about this. 
But, from the correspondence shes provided I think its clear Miss M believed the scammer 
to be a genuine and trustworthy companion. I can see she asked the questions a reasonable 
person would about his background and day to day life and he provided photos and other 
details that built a picture of a person with a well rounded life and career. I think the 
scammer was skilled in constructing the scenario it used to scam Miss M. And, she herself 
identified something wasnt right after the second payment was made and she was asked to 
send more money. So I think its clear she was reasonably questioning the scenario 
presented to her by the scammer. 
Overall, I dont think shes been grossly negligent in this case so I dont think she should be 
partially liable for the loss. 
 
Putting things right
As I think HSBC missed an opportunity to uncover the scam before the first payment was 
made, it needs to reimburse Miss M for her loss and pay her £7,303.23  the total amount 
she paid to the scammer.
Miss M has explained before the payment to the scammer, some of the money was in an 
interest bearing savings account. Shes told us this account has now been closed, but the 
sort code and account number on Miss Ms savings indicate it was a HSBC account. Had the 
money not been paid to the scammer, it seems likely the money wouldve remained in this 
account. So in addition to reimbursing Miss M for the amounts paid to the scammer, HSBC 
should pay interest on any amount that wouldve earned interest at the rate applicable to this 
savings account.
We have requested further evidence of this rate and the amounts involved from Miss M, but 
unfortunately, because of serious ill health shes been unable to provide us with the 
information we need at the moment. Given it appears the money was in an HSBC account, I 
think its reasonable that HSBC obtains this information in order to calculate appropriate 
interest. If it does require any further information to help with this, it can contact our service 
or Miss M.Im conscious some of the money that was paid to scammers came from premium bonds 
Miss M cashed in. We have no way of knowing if she has suffered an actual financial loss in 
relation to this, but this potential loss is something Ive taken into account when Ive 
considered the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require HSBC UK bank PLC to:
- Reimburse Miss M the £7,303.23 paid to the scammer plus;
- Interest on the amount that came from Miss Ms savings account paid at the rate 
applicable to that account from the date the payment was made to the date of 
settlement (which should be within four weeks of Miss Ms acceptance of this 
decision)
- £200 for the trouble and upset caused
If HSBC considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the
interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman