DRN-3357217
The complaint
Mr B complained that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) provided a level of service that fell short 
of his reasonable expectation in relation to his personal pension policy. ReAssure has 
offered him compensation in respect of his distress and inconvenience, which he would like 
to be increased.
What happened
Mr B has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and 
considered individually in their entirety. But my findings are expressed in less detail and 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues
Mr B had a personal pension policy with Legal and General which was transferred to 
ReAssure as a result of a commercial transaction between Legal and General and ReAssure 
in late 2020. Following this, Mr B became aware that he no longer had access to an online 
portal through which he could monitor the performance of his pension funds or make 
changes to his nominees and his personal details, in the same way he had previously.
Mr B attempted to contact ReAssure by telephone, but long queues meant he was unable to 
speak directly to its customer service agents. Mr B contacted ReAssure on 10 March 2021, 
by its online contact form, asking for information about how to make a change to his 
nominated beneficiaries and how to gain access to an online portal. The response from 
ReAssure on 11 March provided information about his first query, but not about access to 
the online portal.
Mr B contacted ReAssure again on 24 March to complain about the service failings he had 
experienced and asked for this to be treated as a formal complaint. ReAssure failed to 
register this complaint properly.
Mr B again contacted ReAssure on 8 May seeking access to the online portal. He was finally 
able to gain access to it later in May 2021, over 2 months after his first request.
Mr B decided that he would switch provider, from ReAssure to another pension provider 
(Company A). This process also did not proceed smoothly with confusion arising from 
communications between ReAssure and Company A, leaving Mr B unclear as to whether he 
needed to provide further information to one or both parties, and if he did, what form that 
information needed to be provided in. This led Mr B to contact both parties on several further 
occasions to seek the clarity he required.
Mr B made a further complaint to ReAssure about its failure to recognize and act upon the 
complaint he made in March, alongside the poor service he had received when seeking to 
transfer his pension away from ReAssure.
Dissatisfied with the level of service he had received from both providers, Mr B cancelled the 
instruction to transfer his pension to Company A, and instead initiated a transfer to a new 
provider, Company B. This transfer was completed on 7 August 2021.
ReAssure responded to Mr Bs complaints on 29 July, recognizing the poor service he had 
received, and offering £150 in compensation. Mr B rejected this offer and a complaint was 
made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. ReAssure subsequently increased their offer of 
compensation to £300.
Our investigator reviewed all the information provided and reached the conclusion that the 
£300 compensation offered by ReAssure was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr 
B disagreed, so its been passed to me to take a fresh look at all the evidence and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Bs complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for him, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, let me say that there is no doubt that the level of service Mr B received from 
ReAssure fell far short of both his and its expectations. From the outset, ReAssures 
responses to Mr B failed to answer his quite straightforward questions. ReAssure missed the 
opportunity to explain to Mr B that the inability to connect to an online portal was caused by 
his pension information having not yet been uploaded following the transfer from his 
previous provider, and to give him a date by which this should have happened.
Subsequent failures by ReAssure in relation to its communications with Mr B and its failure 
to register and manage Mr Bs initial complaint, compounded his understandable loss of 
confidence and led to him deciding to switch providers. Poor communication with Mr B 
relating to another relatively straightforward query from both ReAssure and Company A led 
to Mr B to decide to transfer his pension policy to different provider, Company B. I find that 
these mistakes again constituted a failure to provide a reasonable level of service to Mr B, 
causing him inconvenience.
ReAssure also failed to respond to Mr Bs complaints within the time required by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, but as complaint handling is not a regulated activity its not 
within my remit to consider this, except to say that Mr B would have been able to bring his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service once ReAssure failed to provide an answer.
From all the evidence provided, its clear that ReAssure failed to provide Mr B with the level 
of service he could reasonably expect.
Looking now at the issue of compensation, when considering what level of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by a businesss mistakes would be appropriate, I 
have to consider several factors which largely relate to the impact the mistake has had upon 
the consumer. These factors include, for example, the nature and severity of the mistake or 
mistakes, the duration of the problem, the time taken to resolve it, the potential impact upon 
the customers health and the approach the Financial Ombudsman Service takes to distress 
and inconvenience payments. 
The level of award also reflects that consumers complain about mistakes made by a 
business in a personal, rather than professional capacity and are not meant to reflect, for 
example, someones hourly rate. In this case I find that ReAssures offer of £300 to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, and I shant be asking them to do anything more.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should fulfil its offer to pay Mr B the sum of £300 compensation if it has 
not already done so 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman