DRN-4161511
The complaint
Mr H complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to close his current account.
What happened
In June 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr H to say they intended to close his account in two 
months time. They said they were doing this because of Mr Hs history of complaints about 
the bank and his continued, in the banks view, unacceptable behaviour when 
communicating with Barclays.
 
Mr H complained that Barclays had done this unfairly because he hadnt done anything 
wrong. Barclays said they were entitled to close his account under the terms and conditions. 
An Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint. He said, in summary, he didnt think Barclays 
had treated Mr H fairly by saying they were going to close his account because this would 
leave him without access to a bank account and hes a vulnerable customer. Our 
Investigator recommended Barclays didnt close Mr Hs account. 
Barclays didnt agree. They maintained theyd acted fairly by giving Mr H the required notice 
under the terms to close his account (which theyd agreed to extend while we were looking 
into his case). They also felt that, while they accepted Mr H was vulnerable, they didnt think 
he would be unable to arrange banking facilities elsewhere. 
As Barclays didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out those findings again below and they form part of 
this decision.
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account, Barclays can close the account by giving 
60 days notice. Ive seen a copy of the letter Barclays sent in June 2022 giving Mr H the 
required notice that they would be closing his account. So Im satisfied Barclays gave Mr H 
the required notice of their decision to close his account. 
But Ive also considered whether its fair and reasonable for Barclays to close Mr Hs 
account. Ive reviewed the contact he had with Barclays in the run up to their decision to 
close his account. Having done so, I dont think Barclays concerns about Mr Hs behaviour 
when dealing with their staff are unreasonable. I can see Barclays referred Mr H to their 
additional support team so I think theyve taken reasonable steps to help Mr H before 
deciding they couldnt continue their relationship with him. So I dont think Barclays has 
treated Mr H unfairly by deciding to close his account. 
Mr H has described himself as housebound and that he only leaves home to get essentials. 
But I can see from his bank statements that he regularly makes transactions at retail and 
leisure facilities. So although I appreciate making arrangements to open a new bank account 
is not Mr Hs preference I dont think, in the circumstances, its something hes unable to do. 
Im pleased to see Mr H has a support network. It may be that someone from that network 
can assist him in arranging a new bank account. 
I can see that Mr H has shared considerable detail with us about his personal 
circumstances. Im aware that things have been extremely difficult for him and Im sorry to 
hear all that hes been through. I know that Barclays decision to close Mr Hs account has 
come at an already difficult time so I know this decision will be disappointing news for Mr H. 
Ive found Barclays hasnt treated Mr H unfairly by deciding to close his account. As Mr H 
knows, Barclays agreed to keep his account open while we were considering his case. 
Barclays has also agreed to allow Mr H a further 30 days to make alternative banking 
arrangements from the date of my final decision. 
Mr H was also unhappy with how Barclays handled his phone call to them on 28 February 
2022. Ive reviewed the transcript for this call and, while I understand Mr H was frustrated 
with how long hed been waiting before his call was answered, I think the two members of 
staff handled things appropriately. Barclays offered Mr H £25 in respect of this call though, 
as Mr H had been distressed and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said he doesnt go further than the parade 
of shops very close to his home, but sometimes goes to a particular venue a short bus ride 
away. 
In reference to the phone call in February 2022, Mr H said he told Barclays he was suicidal 
at the start of the call and they hung up on him. And its not right how long it took for the call 
to be answered.
Barclays didnt provide any further information by the deadline.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about what Mr H has told us. I do understand that Mr Hs 
circumstances are difficult. And Im sorry to hear Mr H feels as though things are getting 
worse. 
With regard to the telephone call, I can see from the transcript Mr H did mention he wasnt 
well at the start of the conversation. But the call doesnt end there  the conversation goes 
on for over an hour, during which the transaction Mr H called to make is carried out. Its only 
after the call becomes unproductive that someone else steps in and its eventually ended. I 
dont think this was inappropriate in the circumstances and Barclays had told Mr H that they 
would do so before ending the call. Overall, Im satisfied for the same reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision Barclays were entitled to give Mr H notice to close his account. 
Ive considered what Mr H has told us about being unable to go far from his home. But Ive 
noted within the area he is comfortable travelling, there are several branches of other high 
street banks. So I dont think opening a new account would mean Mr H has to travel any further than he would normally. Id encourage Mr H to consider asking someone in his 
support network to help him with this if he feels unable to do so alone. 
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, Barclays has agreed to allow Mr H 30 days from the date 
of this decision to make alternative banking arrangements. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already offered to pay Mr H £25 in respect of the telephone call 
he was unhappy with, I find this is fair in all the circumstances of the case. 
My final decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £25. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman