DRN-2343146
The complaint
Mr and Ms W are unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled their home insurance claim for water damage to their summerhouse.
What happened
In March 2018, when Mr W opened up their summerhouse after the winter, he found the 
floor to be saturated. There had been a leak from the sink of the small bathroom in the 
summerhouse.  Mr and Ms W made a claim to RSA, who appointed a loss adjuster. It was 
identified that drying out was needed but then because discussions took place with the 
contractors as to what needed to be stripped out, no driers were initially put in place. 
Eventually the strip out was agreed and the summerhouse was certified dry by August 2018. 
Mr and Ms W had told RSA that the door was warped and the window mouldy but this 
appeared to be ignored as the repairs started. Then after heavy rain the summerhouse floor 
was wet again and further drying out took place. 
After this the further repairs were booked in to start at the end of January 2019. However 
these had to be delayed following further storm damage not connected to the original claim. 
The work was completed in early March 2019. However Mr and Ms W noticed cracks and 
dents to the ceiling and some cracked floor tiles. The tiles were dealt with but it took a further 
three months to identify if the contractors were liable for the damaged ceiling and then to 
order materials and repair it. The contractors hadnt worked on the ceiling and denied any 
liability but RSA agreed to repair it as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Ms W then reported that the repaired door was broken again. RSA allowed them to 
use their own contractors to deal with this, and paid the invoice. Mr and Ms W were also 
dissatisfied with the repairs to the window and had this redone, again RSA paid for this.
In July 2019 Mr W noticed hairline cracks in the toilet, and a puncture hole in the wet wall. 
RSA denied liability initially and pointed out that Mr and Ms W had had their own contractors 
in to work on the bathroom. RSA did then agree to replace the toilet and repair the wall as a 
gesture of goodwill. This wasnt completed until December 2019. During the whole time that 
the summerhouse was out of action, Mr and Ms W stored the contents in their conservatory. 
As they didnt have use of the conservatory for all this time RSA agreed to pay Mr and Ms W 
what it would have cost it to place the items in storage, some £3,000.
Mr and Ms W wrote a detailed letter of complaint to RSA. It agreed that there had been 
unnecessary delays amounting to in total around 10 months. Mr and Ms W also had the 
following issues:
A lack of communication.
They had to sort some things out themselves.
A lack of ownership & management.
They had to chase on a number of occasions.
A lack of updates.
Unnecessary appointments, the loss adjuster had to re attend as no scope had been 
drawn up and errors were made meaning trades had to re-attend. 
The franchise dealing with the strip out and drying was changed mid-way through the 
claim as the office was closing.
Contractor booked in then couldnt do the works due to lack of capacity so another 
contractor had to be found, leading to more delays.
RSA paid compensation of £550 in respect of distress and inconvenience, in addition to the 
costs Ive mentioned above. Mr and Ms W found this unacceptable. Additionally Mr W had 
lost money by having to take time off work to meet with surveyors and loss adjusters.
On review by this service our investigator thought that RSA had paid reasonable 
compensation.
Mr and Ms W didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do think there were unacceptable delays in RSA dealing with this matter. This was 
compounded by a lack of management on the part of the loss adjusters and a failure to keep 
Mr and Ms W informed. I can see by Mr and Ms Ws account that they spent a lot of time on 
the phone chasing matters up. The claim took just over a year to be dealt with, and snagging 
issues took the matter well into June 20019 before final completion. 
I do note the difficulties caused by the change of contractors and change of franchise. These 
things happen unfortunately, it is more the way they are communicated to the consumers 
that causes problems, and I do think this was an example of lack of communication.
When I assess whether a compensation payment is reasonable I take into account not only 
what went wrong but how the insurer dealt with it. Here RSA paid for or dealt with the 
following additional matters:
cracks to the ceiling
the further repairs to the door and window, without asking to reinspect
the replacement of the toilet and repair of the hole in the wall.
In particular RSA couldnt say whether its contractors damaged the toilet or the wall, 
particularly as Mr and Ms W had had their own contractors work in the bathroom. 
Nevertheless it agreed to pay for this.
Additionally RSA paid £3,000 to Mr and Ms W as they didnt have the use of their 
conservatory as they had stored items from the summerhouse there. RSA told us initially this 
was a disturbance allowance, but it later said this was a figure calculated from the amount it 
would have cost it to place the items in professional storage.  A disturbance allowance is 
usually a payment made when consumers have to stay in their own home whilst not having 
cooking and/or washing facilities, which isnt the case here. Nevertheless it is unusual for an 
insurer to pay consumers for keeping items in their home, and I think there was an element 
of compensating Mr and Ms W for the inconvenience of being without the use of the 
summerhouse and conservatory for such a long time.
Taking those matters into account and also considering that the damage wasnt to the main 
home, I do think that the compensation paid was fair and reasonable and is in line with 
awards we have made in similar cases.I do note that Mr W had to take time off work to meet up with loss adjusters and surveyors. 
Unfortunately that is part of dealing with an insurance claim, and consumers would be 
expected to make time for such appointments. To the extent that there appears to have been 
an unnecessary appointment I do still think that having regard to the matters Ive mentioned 
above, RSA has paid reasonable compensation.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman