DRN-3654262
The complaint
Mrs T complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) made transactions on her account without 
her knowledge or consent. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs T paid in a cheque for £100 to her Santander account at her local post 
office. She didnt have a paying in slip. She used a Santander cheque deposit envelope and 
enclosed a blank cheque for her account to be credited. She says she did this purely as 
proof of the account and her as owner of it. She says she crossed out all the details making 
it unrecognisable as a cheque. 
Mrs T is unhappy as when she checked the account online it showed a cheque for £200 had 
been deposited and credited. And details - the cheque number - from the blank cheque had 
been used to debit her account for £100. She complained to Santander as she thought it this 
was malpractice had been done without her consent. 
In response to the complaint Santander said it had attempted to contact Mrs T to respond to 
the complaint but as it had been unable to do so it had sent a secure message using the 
online banking service. In that message Santander apologised for the level of service 
provided and accepted the cheque Mrs T had sent acting as a cover shouldnt have been 
processed as the details were not filled in. It advised her not to follow this practice on paying 
in cheques in the future. To apologise for this Santander credited £30 to her account and 
gave her referral rights to this service. Mrs T thought their actions werent good banking 
protocol and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint. She didnt hear from Santander in response to 
her investigation so couldnt confirm their procedures or terms and conditions had been 
applied fairly. So, she upheld the complaint and thought Mrs T should get a further £30 
compensation for the worry and upset caused by Santanders actions.
Both parties responded to the investigators findings. Santander told us why they hadnt 
been in contact with this service initially and reiterated there had been human error in 
processing Mrs Ts deposit. But also said Mrs T hadnt suffered any financial damage as a 
result of their mistake. They sent proof that theyd notified Mrs T of the original award of £30 
and agreed to pay the further £30 our investigator recommended.
Mrs T told us she though the bank had fraudulently presented a personal cheque. She 
remained of the view there should be a change in the terms and conditions but as this 
service wasnt going to be addressing that she asked for consideration to be given to 
awarding her £500.00 compensation for what she thought was Santanders blatant disregard 
for customer care and consideration in their action here.
The investigator reviewed her findings. Now Santander had responded and agreed to pay 
the additional £30 she was of the view it had responded reasonably. Mrs T asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold and Ill explain why I 
think that after Ive explained the role of this service. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is here to resolve individual complaints and to award 
redress where appropriate. And its not my role to ask a business to alter its procedures; this 
is something their regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) can look into if they felt 
it was necessary. So, I cant comment on Mrs Ts concerns about the terms and conditions 
which she thinks are jargon weighted over lengthy and complicated. Or her request for 
Santander to change its policy of transacting on a customer's account. If she thinks it 
necessary, Mrs T can refer those concerns about Santander and the wording of those terms 
to the regulator.  
Its my role to put consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the 
mistakes hadnt been made. Theres now no dispute a mistake was made and the blank 
cheque Mrs T enclosed shouldnt have been processed in the way it was. But theres been 
no financial loss to Mrs T. The £100 she paid in was ultimately what was deposited into her 
account here, although I appreciate the movements on her account would give cause for 
concern until Santander explained the mistake. Santander admitted that in the initial contact 
with Mrs T, apologised and later agreed to pay the further £30 compensation the investigator 
awarded in the first view making a total payment of £60 compensation to Mrs T. 
I think the actions of Santander in apologising shortly after Mrs T raised this for the mistake 
and paying the £30 compensation is a reasonable response. The overall payment of £60 
which Santander has agreed to is fair, considering all the circumstances. Its the sort of 
award Id have made had it not already been agreed to by Santander. So, I cant reasonably 
ask them to do anything further here.
Given how strongly Mrs T feels about this, she may want to pursue the matter further 
through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we - in trying to resolve this 
dispute with Santander informally - can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman