DRN-3749778
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S complain about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) 
administered the payments for their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs S had a motor insurance policy arranged through Skyfire covering their car. 
The policy renewed annually in September.
In June 2021, Mr B and Mrs S notified Skyfire of an accident theyd had. They werent 
intending to make a claim for the damage, but as the accident involved a third party, Skyfire 
told them it would keep the claim open for a period of six months. It would also reduce the 
No Claims Discount (NCD), which would mean that the monthly premiums would increase 
from renewal.
Mr B and Mrs S say they were told that, if the third party hadnt claimed in the six months, 
then the NCD and the extra premium paid would be returned to them.
In July 2021 Mrs S called Skyfire and removed herself from the policy. Mr B and Mrs S had 
been paying £90.30 per month for their cover; the change made dopped the final monthly 
instalment to £48.76.
The policy then automatically renewed in September at a monthly premium of £118.48.
In December 2021, six months after they notified the claim, Mr B and Mrs S spoke to Skyfire. 
It said the additional premium theyd paid would be credited against the remaining 
instalments rather than being returned to them. The NCD was reinstated. The monthly 
premium reduced to £67.51.
Mr B and Mrs S werent happy. They asked for the extra money theyd paid to be returned to 
them. They say the payments were causing them to struggle. Skyfire said it had charged Mr 
B and Mrs S correctly. But it did agree it hadnt handled their complaint as well as it could, 
and it paid them £50 compensation for this. 
Mr B and Mrs S remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought 
Skyfire had acted fairly and had charged the correct premium. He thought Skyfires payment 
of £50 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr B and Mrs S didnt agree with the view. They asked that their complaint was reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
I can sympathise with Mr B and Mrs Ss position here, as the monthly amounts they were 
paying for their cover had varied substantially over the months around renewal in 2021. I 
think its likely that they were confused about the amount they were paying for cover for their 
previous policy. 
This is particularly the case because theyd added Mrs S onto the policy, paying by a lump 
sum, and then taken her off it which resulted in a partial refund that was taken off their 
remaining instalment.
That lower instalment seems to have been the figure that Mr B and Mrs S thought that they 
would be paying for their 2021-2022 policy. But it wasnt, because of the accident theyd 
notified in June 2021. Even though they didnt want to claim for repairs themselves, insurers 
will typically keep fault claims like this one open for six months in case the third party 
wishes to bring a claim. Its reasonable for Skyfire to have done this. 
Skyfire also reduced Mr Bs NCD accordingly, before reinstating it when the third party didnt 
claim. That means Mr B and Mrs S paid more for the first few months of the policy, but once 
the claim was closed, these overpayments are credited against the remainder of the monthly 
instalments, reducing them. 
Having looked at the evidence, I can see that Skyfire charged the correct premiums to Mr B 
and Mrs S. I appreciate Mr B and Mrs Ss point that they say they were told the money would 
be refunded to them, but this isnt generally how Id expect a refund to happen. 
Its also important that I point out that this method of refunding overpayments had been done 
previously for Mr B and Mrs S, when Mrs S had been taken off the policy and the final 
instalment was reduced substantially.
I can see that Skyfire have paid £50 compensation to Mr B and Mrs S because it didnt deal 
with their complaint quickly enough. I think this is fair and reasonable and Im not going to 
ask it to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman