DRN-3088750
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around November 2014, Mr B contacted a company Ill call P to talk about purchasing 
a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being visited by a 
representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In May 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The total cost of the system was documented as £8,925.00 to mislead Mr B as when 
the interest was added the total cost was £17,425.80.
Mr B was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,161.71 but was not made aware 
that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of £625.16.
The system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments.
The system would not cost Mr B a penny; and
Mr B was pressured into signing the agreement.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and personal solar quotation. Ive considered these in 
detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Bs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods 
The CMC says that the cost of the system was shown as £8,925.00. It says that this was 
designed to mislead Mr B as the figure didnt include any interest on the loan. So, the CMC 
considers that P hid the true cost of the system, which was £17,425.80.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr B makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£8,925.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which shows the total cash price as 
£8,925.00, and the total amount of credit as £8,925.00. But it then goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £17,425.80.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cash price of the system was £8,925.00, it would cost Mr B more than 
this as hed decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr B has alleged that P told him his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr B has said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £525.86.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £580.79 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr B the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £956.25. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, £525.86, and the loan agreement details that Mr B is expected to 
pay £96.81 each month. I think this clearly shows that the overall income he could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed System Performance and Returns which details the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by year 
13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and I were to 
be satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,136.64 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,077.39 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
but within a reasonable margin so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed central part of the 
sales process with P. Ive carefully considered the points made by the CMC along with those 
made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mr B agreed to enter into the contract
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr Bs to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman