DRN-3330557
The complaint
This decision follows on from a jurisdiction decision dated 4 February 2022 in which I 
decided that we are able to consider the following matters:
Mr and Mrs T say they have been subjected to hostile behaviour over many years by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC;
the banks response to their Subject Access Request (SAR) showed that the name of a 
third party appears in their account records.
Mrs T has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of herself and Mr T.
What happened
I will not set out the full history of what has led to this complaint. That is because much of 
what Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about has already been the subject of investigations and 
decisions from our service. It is not, therefore, appropriate for me to re-visit those matters.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage account taken out with Barclays in 1998. Unfortunately 
Mr T was declared bankrupt in 2011 and eventually the property was sold in 2016. Since at 
least 2009 Mr and Mrs T have been in dispute with Barclays about the mortgage. Complaints 
brought to this service were the subject of a final decision in 2013 and a dismissal decision 
in 2016, when Mr and Mrs T tried to raise the same complaints again. 
Mr and Mrs T have now raised a further complaint  that theyve been subjected to hostility 
over the years by Barclays, as a result of Barclays refusal to provide them with information 
about the proceeds of sale of their former home, and in the handling of their account since 
2009.
Mr and Mrs T also say that, following the banks response to their SAR, they found mention 
of a third party in their account history, which they are concerned is evidence of fraud.
Barclays asked Mr and Mrs T for further information about this, but Mr and Mrs T brought 
their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service instead.
Provisional decision
On 7 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following 
conclusions.
Hostility by Barclays: Ive read carefully what Mrs T has said about this. I can see 
she feels very strongly about the banks handling of the mortgage since 2009. 
However, it seems to me that the hostility Mrs T has told us she and Mr T have been 
subjected to is really about Barclays refusal to uphold their complaints about the 
mortgage over a number of years, or to agree a payment holiday, provide information 
about the proceeds of sale, and all the other issues which have already been 
covered in previous complaints to the bank and to our service.
I appreciate Mrs T is very unhappy that previous complaints havent been resolved in 
her favour by Barclays, or that the bank made decisions relating to the management 
of the account which Mrs T continues to find unacceptable, even after we have 
already investigated her concerns about them in previous complaints. But a banks 
decision not to uphold a complaint or to make decisions about the management of 
the account which the customer finds unpalatable is not, in my opinion, evidence of 
hostility. 
Nor is it possible for us to re-investigate or re-open complaint issues that have been 
the subject of previous ombudsman decisions simply because Mr and Mrs T have 
now presented the same complaints to us in a different way. From what Mrs T has 
told us, the issues which shes now complaining about as hostile behaviour are the 
same issues that we have either not upheld, dismissed or ruled outside our 
jurisdiction.
I have seen no evidence of hostile behaviour by Barclays staff towards Mr and 
Mrs T. I know this will be disappointing news for Mr and Mrs T, but I am not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
SAR: Mrs T has told us that, on receiving the outcome of her SAR, she discovered 
that the name of a third party appeared in the account history. Mrs T is concerned 
there has been a data breach or identity theft. 
Ive looked at what Mrs T has said about this. I can see Barclays asked Mrs T to 
provide further evidence of this, but it doesnt appear to have been provided. I also 
note that in an email to us dated 20 November 2020 Mrs T says: There appears to 
be a reference to the mis-spelling of my middle name in correspondences sent to me 
relating to the Barclays current account. Mrs T then goes on to refer to another 
name which is not dissimilar to her name, but which Mrs T says is evidence of 
identity theft.
Mrs T has told us that she is concerned that the reference numbers for loans ending 
8625, 7503, 7589, 7686, 7775, 7856, and 7889 belong to accounts in the name of 
this third party. 
However, Im satisfied that the account numbers relate to Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage 
and, as I said above, the issues around payment of the mortgage have already been 
covered by previous ombudsman decisions and so wont be reconsidered by our 
service. If Mr and Mrs T believe there has been an error by Barclays in its handling of their 
personal data, the correct authority to report this to would be the Information 
Commissioners Office. But the evidence on file doesnt persuade me that Mr or 
Mrs T have been incorrectly linked to the accounts of another person.
I did not think the complaint should be upheld, but invited the parties to comment.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mrs T has provided a very detailed response to 
the provisional decision. Much of this relates to issues that I have already decided are out of 
jurisdiction or should be dismissed, or are about complaints against other businesses, or 
which relate to Mrs Ts dissatisfaction about the operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Ive read what Mrs T has sent us, but I will not comment on any issues that are not 
relevant to the two complaint issues that are covered in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file from the outset, including the additional points Mrs T has made in 
response to the provisional decision. I note Mrs T has provided directions to us on the issues 
she wants us to investigate. I must make it clear, however, that I have already decided which 
issues I am considering in this complaint in my jurisdiction decision dated 4 February 2022.
Furthermore, it is not part of our process to allow either consumers or the businesses they 
are complaining about to try to direct the course of our investigations, to dictate the issues 
they think we should consider or to provide questions they require the other party to answer 
to their satisfaction. If we were to allow either party to direct our investigations, it would 
compromise our independence and impartiality. 
To be clear, this decision is about only the two issues I decided in my jurisdiction decision of 
4 February 2022 that we are able to consider, which I will address below.
Hostility by Barclays
Ive read what Mrs T has said about what she perceives to be acts of hostility towards her 
and Mr T by Barclays. These relate wholly to Barclays legitimate and reasonable requests 
for security for business borrowing, about operation of accounts and for payment of debts 
owed to the bank. Mrs T maintains that the mortgage was repaid on 6 March 2000 and all 
loans from the bank were repaid before 2010. However, the evidence does not support this, 
and indeed Mr and Mrs Ts concerns about this have been the subject of previous 
complaints to us and have been covered in previous ombudsmen decisions.
Because Mrs T is under the (mistaken) belief that she paid off her debts to Barclays many 
years ago, it seems to me that attempts by the bank to try to discuss the accounts or 
negotiate payment over a number of years have been perceived as acts of hostility. But Im 
satisfied the banks actions are reasonable in all the circumstances. I appreciate Mrs Ts 
position is that Customers are always right until proven otherwise, but Im not persuaded 
that Barclays handling of Mr and Mrs Ts accounts has been anything other than 
professional and reasonable. Similarly, Barclays refusal to uphold Mrs Ts numerous complaints about, not only the 
mortgage, but PPI, an overdraft, a savings account and various other matters over the years 
is also, according to Mrs T, evidence of hostile behaviour. Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs T 
that Barclays has acted in a hostile manner towards her and Mr T because her complaints 
havent been upheld. The evidence shows that Barclays has made reasonable attempts to 
resolve the issues Mrs T has raised with it over many years.  The fact that complaints have 
not been resolved in favour of Mr and Mrs T is not, in my opinion, proof of hostile behaviour. 
SAR: Ive read what Mrs T has said about this in response to my provisional decision. Mrs T 
is adamant that sub-accounts have been linked to her and Mr T which are actually accounts 
that belong to a third party. 
In his decision issued in 2013, an ombudsman decided that those sub-accounts related to 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage and that they had taken out the borrowing. I agree with that 
decision and have no power to overturn it. 
I understand Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly about this, but from what Mrs T has told us, it 
appears that Barclays mis-spelled part of Mrs Ts name and incorrectly added a different first 
name on the account. But these errors have had no effect on the operation of the accounts, 
and I am not persuaded by Mrs Ts argument that the money Barclays claims she and Mr T 
owe the bank is, in fact, debt incurred by an unknown third party. 
Conclusion
I do not underestimate Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling about this matter, but I am unable 
to agree with Mrs T that Barclays has acted with hostility towards her and Mr T. I am also not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs T are, as Mrs T claims, being held responsible for borrowing in 
the name of a third party, nor do I find that an unknown third partys borrowing has been 
linked to their account either in error or deliberately. 
As far as Mr and Mrs Ts complaints are concerned, I must explain that, although the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is free to consumers, it is not without cost and our resources 
are not infinite. Mr and Mrs T have raised the same complaints many times, and we have 
given them our answers on those complaints. I fully appreciate that Mrs T is unhappy that 
the complaints have either not been upheld, dismissed or ruled out of jurisdiction  and I 
have no doubt she will not be happy with this current decision. But that doesnt mean Mr and 
Mrs T can bring the same complaints repeatedly in the hope of getting a different result.  
I feel I must make this clear so that Mr and Mrs T are under no misunderstanding about the 
extent of what we are able to do. I know that dealing with these matters has been very 
stressful for Mrs T and I would not want her or Mr T to be caused further upset by trying to 
pursue the same complaints against Barclays that we have already either decided on the 
merits, dismissed or ruled out of jurisdiction.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs T are still instructing solicitors to represent them in their dealings 
with Barclays, but if not, it may be helpful for them to have an agency such as Citizens 
Advice, StepChange or Shelter provide them with some advice and to deal with Barclays on 
their behalf (subject to providing the bank with the necessary third party authority). We can 
provide Mr and Mrs T with contact details for those agencies, if they would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman