DRN-3682395
The complaint
Miss O complains about the service received from Everyday Lending Limited, trading as
Trusttwo (ELL) when they reported a default on a guarantor loan.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss O and ELL. I wont repeat in
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Miss O took out a guarantor loan for £7,800 with ELL in 2019. The agreed contractual
repayment was £308.50 each month.
In January 2021 Miss O got in touch with ELL to let them know she was experiencing
financial difficulty because of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. ELL and Miss O agreed
a reduced repayment for £98.50, for one month - and this was to be reviewed the following
month. Some further communication followed between Miss O and ELL over the coming
months, arrears continued to build up and ultimately a default notice was issued on 21 April
2021 and reported in May 2021.
Miss O was unhappy with the actions of ELL and the service shed received. She
complained to them, remained unhappy with their response and referred her complaint to
our Service for an independent review.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint and recommended that ELL increase their
offer for the service received to £300. Miss O remained unhappy with the default being
recorded and the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I recently sent both parties a 
copy of my provisional, intended findings  outlining that I intended to increase the 
compensation award to Miss O from £300 to £500. 
ELL responded and accepted my provisional findings. Miss O didnt respond by the deadline 
I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional findings or provided material new evidence, I 
see no fair or reasonable reason to deviate from my intended findings. As they form part of 
this - my final decision, Ive included a copy below.
Copy of provisional decision
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The support offered by ELL
As a responsible lender, ELL have a duty to accurately report an accurate picture of their
customers accounts to the relevant credit reference agencies. Its not in dispute that Miss O
was in arrears with her loan repayments whilst dealing with the challenges that the
COVID-19 pandemic presented. She was unemployed and reliant on universal credit for her
income.
From the evidence provided, an agreement was made that Miss O would make a reduced
repayment in January 2021 and this would be reviewed in February. This was positive, fair
and supportive of ELL. But she didnt make this payment as agreed. This payment was
made on 1 February 2021  so therefore she broke the terms of that arrangement and its
not unfair or unexpected that ELL would then revert back to expecting full contractual
repayments each month. However, I also havent seen sufficient supporting evidence that
ELL made this clear to Miss O. Indeed, there is reference to this arrangement continuing
afterwards. This is part of a catalogue of really poor communication from ELL  that Ill
address in detail later in this decision.
I can see that on 12 February 2021 ELL contacted Miss O to request an update on her
circumstances  as agreed. Her response was that her situation was exactly the same as
the previous month. An income and expenditure assessment was then requested by ELL
and they advised theyd then look at options on the account. This is what Id except to see in
this type of situation - the business trying to establish what a customer can afford to repay.
ELL told Miss O on 15 February 2021 she wasnt happy with the negative impact a reduced
payment plan would have on her credit file and she wanted to reschedule the loan. ELL said
theyd look into this. This was again supportive of ELL.
On 17 February ELL emailed Miss O to explain that for a loan reschedule to be considered
theyd need to contact the loan guarantor but werent able to get through and theyd also
need supporting documentation such as bank statements before making a decision. Again,
this was what Id expect to see.
On 24 February ELL let Miss O know that the agreed reduced January repayment would
show on her credit file if it had been received on time. But that there was no arrangement in
place for February. It was reiterated what would be required to consider a loan reschedule.
Shortly afterwards Miss O responded to provide bank statements, confirm that she had
missed her February repayment and understood this would negatively impact her credit file.
She said her guarantor would email ELL and queried the rescheduling time frames.
To be clear, Im not considering the actions of the loan guarantor here. But its important to
make reference to their involvement as based on what Ive seen, ELL needed the guarantor
on board to allow the rescheduling to be considered and Miss O had said theyd email ELL.
On 24 May 2021 it was confirmed that the guarantor wouldnt send the required information
ELLs notes indicate that the loan guarantor contacted them on 4 May 2021 but was unable
to pass account security so they were unable to speak to them.
However from Miss Os email on 1 March 2021, there was approximately 7 weeks before
anything further seemingly was recorded on the account. Given the difficulties the customer
was experiencing, I find this to be very poor customer service and not positive or supportive.
In their final response letter, ELL have said that Miss O was declined for loan rescheduling
twice. But I cant see that this was clearly communicated to her - despite numerousopportunities to do so. This is very disappointing to hear.
The recording of the default
Mis O was sent a notice of default on 22 April 2021. This notice gave her until 10 May 2021
to clear the arrears. As the arrears werent cleared, a default was recorded.
To be very clear; although the communication and service from ELL falls far below what
would be expected, this didnt absolve Miss O of her responsibility to make her loan
repayments. From what Ive seen, the reduced payment plan was only intended to cover
January 2021  and Miss O broke the terms of the arrangement by paying late, but it seems
it may have continued beyond January 2021.
Crucially, Miss O didnt make any repayments towards her loan to cover February, March or
April 2021. Even if Miss O was awaiting an answer on whether the loan would be
rescheduled, this didnt mean she should stop making either her agreed loan repayments or
the lower amount - if she felt that arrangement had continued beyond January 2021. Im not
persuaded by Miss Os argument that the payment required to prevent the default was
£94.50 and not the total arrears. The default notice set out clearly what the outcome would
be should the arrears not be cleared. ELL havent acted unreasonably in recording the
default.
Similarly - with all due respect to Miss O, I dont agree with her points below:
Had Trusttwo followed the correct procedures when filing the default and provided
enough time for me to response and had they provided good customer service in a
timely manner I know that without a doubt this situation would have been resolved
long before the default notice as sent. Which again is no fault of my own.
The available evidence shows that the financial difficulties shes experienced had been
ongoing for a number of months and there is no supporting evidence at all that (despite the
failings from ELL) her financial circumstances had improved to the extent that shed be in
position to clear her arrears and resume her contractual loan repayments. Miss O did later
resume working - but this after the point where arrears had significantly built up.
Miss O has also raised an issue with the date the default was reported/recorded, but as our
investigator has explained; the earlier its added, the sooner it will fall off Miss Os credit
record. Crucially, no supporting evidence has been provided that Miss O wouldve been in a
position to pay off her arrears had the default not been recorded until a week or two later - so
I find it more likely than not that the end result wouldve still been the same.
In summary, I dont think shes lost out because of the date the default was reported and the
recording of the default was fair and reasonable.
The service Miss O has received
Its accepted by ELL that the service delivered simply wasnt good enough. Our investigator
recommended compensation of £300 in recognition of this  which ELL agreed to pay. I
currently intend to increase this award to £500. My justification is the catalogue of extremely
poor communication and unclear messages across a number of months  at what was a
really difficult time for Miss O - will have compounded the impact of this situation on her.
ELL needed to take ownership of the service delivered, particularly after issues were
identified - but they failed to do so. Its positive that ELL have told us theyve taken steps to
deal with the staff involved internally. Its not within our remit to direct action againstindividual staff members  and although that may help future customers - it doesnt help
Miss O or reduce the impact this experience has had on her. Ive kept this in mind when
increasing the compensation award here.
Ive already highlighted the various issues with ELL not clearly communicating the loan
rescheduling had been declined and not responding to Miss O for the best part of two
months (March - late April 2021). ELL failed to communicate in a clear way to Miss O what
was happening.
To be totally clear, I dont find that the service delivered has ultimately changed what the end
result was here  the recording of the default. But as a customer of ELL, Miss O deserved to
be treated with basic courtesy and clarity in her dealings with them. They were the experts in
this relationship and have let Miss O down on a number of occasions, across a number of
months.
Putting things right
Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Trusttwo (ELL) need to pay to Miss O a total of £500. 
This is an increase on the £300 our investigator had recommended.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Trusttwo 
(ELL) to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman