DRN-1391891
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Ms C. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. Ms C 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, I'm not upholding it for 
reasons that I'll now explain. 
The application form, which Ms C filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, 
which you make by signing in a box. So I think Ms C knew she had a choice at the time and 
actively decided to take it. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I can understand why 
she may not recall this now.
It doesn't look like AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Cs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
It would have been for Ms C to decide whether it met her needs.
But AXA still needed to give Ms C enough information for her to decide if she wanted the 
PPI policy. I think it's possible that the information she received could have been better than 
it was. But I don't think better information would have changed her mind about buying the 
policy. I say this because:
Ms C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Ms C's other means don't look as if they'd have made the policy of no benefit to her. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to her other means and, potentially, for 
much longer than these would have lasted. So I think she would have valued the 
extra security the policy gave her.
 I've no real reason for thinking the policy was unaffordable for Ms C. And as the 
policy premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met 
her needs.
 
So I don't think that Ms C has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman