DRN-3506362
The complaint
Mr D complains that LP Financial Management (LFPM) gave him unsuitable advice to switch 
two Personal Pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). A subsequent 
investment was made in an unregulated holiday resort investment. 
What happened
In September 2012, Mr D signed a letter of authority for Atlantic Partnership LLP (a firm 
whose director was also a director of LPFM), to obtain information about his Personal 
Pension plans.
At the time he worked as a service engineer and he had two Personal Pensions worth in the 
region of £80,000 in total. He had no other pensions or investments.
In October 2012, Mr D signed a request for a full transfer of the combined value of both his 
pensions to The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd, which was administered by Hartley. The IFA 
was recorded as LPFM while Atlantic Partnership LLP were recorded as investment 
managers.
On 23 October 2012, Hartley issued an invoice to LPFM, for both the first years 
management fees and the transfer in charge.
On 01 November 2012, Hartley received a BACS transfer in the region of £80,100 from the 
personal pension provider, which was then held in cash.
In January 2013, LPFM wrote to Mr D offering to review his pension transfer. They advised 
him that: As part of the administration process Atlantic Overseas Investments forwarded the 
relevant information to Lansdown Place (LPFM) to complete the transfer to Lifetime SIPP. 
The transfer was processed by LPFM as Lifetime SIPP (now Hartley) requires all pension 
transfers to be completed by a firm that is regulated by the Financial Service Authority. At 
this point I would like to stress that LPFMs involvement in this process is only in relation to 
the transfer of your pension and we have not been involved in any subsequent investments 
you have made within your SIPP.
The letter went on to say: we would like the opportunity to fully review the pension contracts 
you had in place prior to requesting the transfer to Lifetime SIPP to determine if you have 
been financially disadvantaged. If after reviewing your pension contracts we feel that you 
have been disadvantaged as a result of this transaction we will make an appropriate offer of 
redress to put you back in the position you would have been in, prior to the transfer.
On 28 January 2013, an email written by a director of LPFM confirmed a conversation with 
Lifetime SIPP. It stated that Lifetime SIPP were: seeking clearance to complete this transfer 
and went onto say: I asked her to send details so that we can approve  she is aware that 
they should not accept any future instruction from Atlantic in connection with ourselves.
On the same day the compliance director of LPFM wrote back saying we really shouldnt do 
this, let me talk to (the individual who was both a director of LPFM and Atlantic) to see if we 
can move it to the new IFA.
Having consulted with another IFA firm in May 2013, Mr D completed a Lifetime SIPP 
member investment declaration to make an investment in the region of £47,350 from his 
Lifetime SIPP pension funds into the Aubek Resort Group  Harmony Bay, while the residual 
funds remained in cash.
The review by LPFM of Mr Ds pension transfer was concluded in June 2013 and a letter 
was issued to him stating that LPFM had no Involvement with any investments you have 
made within your SIPP. The letter went onto say: this particular transaction focussed on the 
transfer of your existing contract to a specific pension provider at your request and was not 
focused on specific investment advice relating to your previous or future pension scheme, 
we did not establish your attitude to risk or make any observations in relation to the risk 
profile of the pension contacts you had in place prior to them being transferred.
In conclusion the letter said: On reviewing the information available it is clear that you have 
requested that the pension transfer be completed on an Execution Only basis and that you 
did not seek or receive any financial advice in relation to the suitability of transferring these 
benefits. If the above is an accurate reflection of your situation I would ask that you sign the 
enclosed Execution Only form so that we can complete our audit trail in relation to this 
matter.
In September 2019, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) accepted a claim 
against the other IFA firm who had then ceased trading, in relation to unsuitable investment 
advice following a change in the fund status of Mr Ds investment in Harmony Bay. The 
FSCS have agreed to a reassignment of rights to enable Mr D to pursue his complaint 
against LPFM in relation to the initial transfer itself.
LPFM argued that the complaint had been made out of time, it said that Mr D shouldve been 
aware in 2013 that something was wrong when it carried out its review. An ombudsman 
looked into whether this was a case we could consider and decided that it was. He said 
LPFM didnt set out in clear and fair terms that something had gone wrong in 2012. And that 
it used jargon and nuance in its letters to Mr D which in essence shifted the responsibility 
away from it.
Our investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. He upheld the complaint, in 
summary he said:
The evidence didnt support that the sale was credible as execution only.
LPFM received an invoice from the SIPP provider for the first years management 
fees and transfer in charge. 
LPFM in its letter to the customer in 2013 said that the transfer was processed by it 
as the SIPP provider required all pension transfers to be completed by a regulated 
firm.
LPFM facilitated the transfer and therefore is responsible for it.
LPFM shouldve put things right in 2013 but instead concluded that the transfer was 
execution only.
Had LPFM acted fairly it wouldve advised Mr D not to transfer and he wouldnt then 
have suffered the subsequent losses that he has.The losses that occurred due to the subsequent advice to invest in Harmony Bay 
(and as redressed by the FSCS) should be treated as a withdrawal for redress 
purposes  as Mr D shouldnt be compensated twice.
LPFM responded to the investigators view to say:
Its responsibility should end when the new IFA firm took over agency and advised Mr 
D to invest in Harmony bay in 2013.
Despite the fact the transfer was completed without its knowledge and without 
following its guidelines by a non-authorised director it can understand why we put the 
blame at LPFMs door but it tried to fix things and Mr D ignored LPFM and moved his 
business elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to this decision I wrote to both parties to say:
I broadly agree with the findings of our investigator in relation to LPFMs responsibility for 
the transfer  as already set out in his views to both parties. And so I have little to add in 
respect of that. 
However, I am minded to make a change to the redress. LPFM have argued that its liability 
should end when a new IFA advised Mr D. From the limited information available from the 
SIPP administrators, I can see it received instructions on 9 May 2013 from Mr D that hed 
been advised by the new IFA firm to make an investment in Harmony bay  this looks like it 
completed on 30 May. I think 30 May 2013 would be a fair date to cap any responsibility of 
LPFM  as it gave the new IFA time to consider Mr Ds investments going forward.
I appreciate that it looks like the new IFA firm only switched part of Mr Ds funds and left the 
rest invested as it was before. But as regulated financial advisers it shouldve considered Mr 
Ds whole portfolio  I dont know whether it did or not as we dont have that information. But 
in any event it would appear that from the point of the new IFA firms involvement, the 
agency transferred to it and LPFM wouldve no longer been authorised to give Mr D 
investment advice. And Mr D didnt refer back to LPFM for any future advice. So therefore, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to continue LPFMs responsibility beyond 30 May 
2013.
LPFM responded to say it agreed with my findings and accepts the complaint should be 
upheld but its responsibility capped, as set out above. We received no comments from Mr 
Ds representatives. Therefore, what Ive said above remains and forms part of this decision. 
As LPFM accept the outcome and Ive had no further comment from Mr Ds representatives, 
I dont think it is necessary to set out the reasons why Ive upheld the complaint in any more 
detail. Ive set out the key points as established by the investigator  as to why this complaint 
should be upheld.
Conclusion
In summary, we have little evidence to go on, but what we do have doesnt suggest that Mr 
D decided to make the transfer without advice. The switch moved Mr D from two established 
Personal Pensions and into a SIPP with the funds held in cash. I dont think this was suitable 
for Mr D. And the evidence set out above in the background is sufficient in my view to say that LPFM should be held responsible. I appreciate what LPFM has said about one of its 
directors being the driving force behind this (against the interests of the rest of the business) 
but regardless the evidence shows that LPFMs agency was used allowing the transfer to 
proceed (likely by this director). 
However, whilst it was at fault due to its actions at the time of the switch, Mr D transferred 
the agency of the SIPP to a new IFA (possibly linked to the aforementioned director) and I 
think it is fair and reasonable that LPFMs responsibility for redress ends at that point.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly LPFM should:
1. Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable.
2. Pay any interest due if a loss is found, as set out in the steps below.
If there is a loss, LPFM should pay into Mr D's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. LPFM shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If LPFM are unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D wont be able 
to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, LPFM should pay Mr D a further £150 for the stress caused by having his 
funds moved from a secure product into an arrangement that exposed him to the risk of 
unregulated investments. This is in addition to the £100 paid following the LPFM transfer 
review  if that has already been paid. If not £250 should be paid.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LPFM consider that it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how 
much has been taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestThe Lifetime 
SIPP Company 
Ltd (Now 
Hartley)Still exists Notional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
transfer from 
previous 
providerNew IFA 
assumes 
responsibility 
30 May 2013*See below
* If the above calculation results in a loss, Mr Ds loss needs to be brought up to the present 
date. LPFM should therefore use the loss figure calculated up to the end date and then apply 
investment growth using the benchmark, FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index, to the calculation date.
* The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
LPFM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes LPFM 
to pay Mr D.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. LPFM should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd (Now Hartley) should be 
added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd (Now Hartley) should be deducted 
from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if LPFM totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically. (it doesnt 
appear there were any withdrawals before the Harmony Bay investment).
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, you will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
index set out below appropriate and in line with his previous investment strategy.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct LP Financial Management Limited to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman