DRN-2860123
The complaint
Ms E says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms E bought the policy in 2001, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Es case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Es store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave an 
overview of what the policy was for and what it cost. There was a place Ms E could sign if 
she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Ms E signed specifically for 
PPI, separately to signing for the agreement as a whole. I understand Ms E recalls being in a 
rush, but I think it would have been clear what she was signing for, and Im afraid there was 
an onus on her to read what she was signing. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with 
the sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Ms E was misled or unfairly 
pressured into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Ms E was aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt give Ms E tailored advice about buying the insurance, so they didnt have to 
check whether it was right for her. They did have to give Ms E enough information to decide 
for herself whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Ms E about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms E chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.
Ms E recalls being entitled to an unusually generous amount of sick pay. Understandably, 
because of the time thats passed she hasnt been able to provide any evidence of this. But 
the amount shes told us about is exceptional, and does not fit with her circumstances at the 
time such as her young age and short tenure. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its 
most likely that Ms Es mistaken, and would have been entitled to a more normal level of 
benefits. And so I think its most likely the PPI wouldve offered her useful cover, not least 
since it wouldve paid out on top of her existing benefits and covered her for a significant 
period. It also meant she could effectively protect her savings and use them for other things. 
And while I understand Ms E felt her job was stable, shed only been there a relatively short 
time, and accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even in situations 
which feel secure. So I think the policy could have been useful for Ms E in case something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms E could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman