The complaint
Mr and Mrs L's complaint concerns a whole of life policy sold to them in 2003 by an advisory 
service of Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have raised several issues with the policy, a number of which have been 
raised outside the time limits required by our rules, so we're unable to consider them. 
For clarity, this decision deals only with the following issues:
They were incorrectly advised to take the policy as an ideal way to mitigate an
Inheritance Tax ("IHT") liability.
They didn't have the plan charges explained to them.
They were told at the 10-year review that if they cashed the plan in they would've lost
just over £7,000.
They weren't told of what Continuity of Service Barclays would provide to
customers with multiple financial products following the withdrawal of the
Woolwich Independent Financial Advisory Service ("WIFAS") that advised them.
Barclays didn't uphold the complaint. It said, in brief:
At the time of the advice an IHT liability was identified. The policy was a suitable
means by which to address this. It was written in trust to ensure any payout would be
outside Mr and Mrs L's estates.
The charges were explained and detailed in the sales documentation.
At the point of the 10-year review the amount paid in premiums was in excess of the
surrender value, but although the policy had an investment element, it had been
recommended for life insurance, not a savings or investment need.
WIFAS stopped operating soon after Mr and Mrs L started the policy, but there were
alternative Barclays services that would've provided advice on request.
Mr and Mrs L didn't accept this, and the complaint was referred to this service. 
Our investigator reached a similar conclusion to Barclays. She said, in brief:
She noted that the policy's sum assured was less than the level of the IHT liability
identified (£182,000 as opposed to £307,000) but concluded this was probably on the
basis of affordability, as Mr and Mrs L had reduced the sum assured further at the
2013 review.
Both the illustration and the Key Features document showed the policy charges.
DRN-1908295The Key Features document also made clear the policy wasn't a savings plan. 
The suitability letter highlighted the likelihood of a rise in premiums/reduction in 
the sum assured at the first review.  
Barclays would've provided further advice once WIFAS had stopped operating but 
there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs L sought any advice.
 
Mr and Mrs responded to say that most of the investigator's comments had been about the 
policy itself, which in the context of their complaint were mostly irrelevant. The real basis of 
their complaint was that Barclays failed to support them with essential financial advice. They 
said constant advice was needed, particularly as the investment and product performance 
began to fail. When advice reviews did happen, Barclays were only interested in selling new 
products, not in giving the support that Mr and Mrs L had signed up for.  
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As noted, Mr and Mrs L have clarified that their main concern is with an apparent lack of 
advice and support received from Barclays during the policy's term. But for the sake of 
completeness, I should say that I agree with the investigator's reasons for finding that that 
the policy appears to have been a broadly suitable means by which to meet the identified 
IHT liability.
It was clearly explained in the sales documentation what the policy was for, how it worked 
and how much it cost. And although there was the highlighted discrepancy between the sum 
assured and the IHT liability, I don't think that in itself would be enough to conclude that the 
adviser was wrong to make the recommendation. 
Turning to Mr and Mrs L's main concern, I can appreciate that it would've been frustrating to 
lose the services of WIFAS so soon after taking out the policy, and I understand they had 
other financial products. But I've not seen that WIFAS ceasing to provide advice was any 
sort of breach of an agreement with Mr and Mrs L. Barclays did continue to provide advice 
services, but if these proved to be unsatisfactory Mr and Mrs L weren't prevented from going 
elsewhere for advice.
I note what they've said about the advice they did receive from Barclays being more of a 
sales process then an advice or support process. But again, I've seen no clear evidence of a 
specific failure on the part of Barclays that led to Mr and Mrs L incurring a loss. I understand 
they were unhappy with the changes to the policy as time went on. But it operated in the 
manner that was explained to them by the adviser at the outset. And if they'd wanted 
changes to be made, they could've spoken with the policy provider. 
In summary, while I recognise Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed, I'm not persuaded that 
Barclays acted incorrectly of unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reason given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.James Harris
Ombudsman