DRN-4458506
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car, made by a premium-brand 
car-maker and first registered in 2012.
Mr Z had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Admiral for the period from late 
November 2022 to mid-November 2023.
Unfortunately, in late February 2023, Mr Z reported to Admiral that someone had caused 
malicious damage to the car.
From about late March 2023, Mr Z reported that the incident had caused an engine problem.
Admiral appointed one of its approved repairers.
By April 2023, Mr Z had complained to Admiral that it was responsible for delay in dealing 
with his claim.
By a final response dated early May 2023, Admiral apologised for delay and said it was 
sending Mr Z £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr Z asked us to investigate.
In late May 2023, Admiral offered Mr Z a settlement of cash in lieu of repairs. It offered just 
over £3,500.00 including VAT, less £850.00 excess, a balance of about £2,700.00.
In June 2023, Admiral arranged for an engineer to report on the damaged car. In July 2023, 
Admirals engineer did an estimate totalling about £2,400.00 including VAT.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. 
At first (in August 2023), he didnt think that it was fair for the insurer to only offer Mr Z a 
cash settlement. He recommended that Admiral should compensate Mr Z a total of £350.00 
for the inconvenience suffered and appoint a nearby garage to complete the repairs in full or 
allow Mr Z to choose his own garage with the insurer covering the full cost.
Admiral disagreed with the investigators opinion. It provided further information.
Our investigator changed his view. He thought that the insurers cash settlement offer was a 
fair reflection of the costs of the repair caused by the malicious damage. But he 
recommended that Admiral should increase the compensatory award from the £100.00 
previously offered to £200.00 in total as a fair reflection of the non-financial losses incurred 
in this complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Z  
and to Admiral on 13 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mr Z complained about delay in late March or April 2023. Admiral wrote a final 
response in early May 2023. So the final decision would deal with that complaint
I was minded to find that Admirals offer of £100.00 compensation was fair and in line 
with what we would otherwise have directed Admiral to pay. So (unlike our 
investigator) I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint or to direct Admiral to increase 
the amount of compensation.
Subject to any further information from Mr Z or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr Z disagreed with the provisional decision. He said the following:
The vehicle DO NOT have any engine problem first! The independent garage who 
sent an estimate of repairing to the insurer back in March do not included any engine 
issues! [Repairer] who is approved by the insurer garage looked at the vehicle in 
June and did not found any engine issues and in fact the engine is working well! All 
damages due to the vandalism are visible and easy to see. There is no excuse for 
the insurer delaying the repair of the vehicle for 7.5 months! I was left with no vehicle 
for 7.5 months! Facts!
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that, before we can investigate a complaint, the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response. It follows that we cant usually investigate a complaint about 
acts or omissions that happened after the complaint leading to the final response.
In Mr Zs case, he complained about delay in late March or April 2023. Admiral wrote a final 
response in early May 2023. So this final decision will deal with that complaint.
This final decision will not deal with Mr Zs later complaints. Those later complaints include a 
complaint about delay and communication regarding the engineers assessment in the 
summer of 2023. Those later complaints also include a complaint about the offer of cash in 
lieu of repairs.
Delay to April 2023Admirals policy terms included the following:
Our approved repairers, or another company instructed by Admiral will:
give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired
A courtesy car will not be provided until the repairs have been authorised.
From what Ive seen, the insurer didnt act as promptly and efficiently as it shouldve in 
March and April 2023.
By late March 2023, Mr Z wasnt using one of Admirals approved repairers. Mr Zs proposed 
repairer did an estimate totalling about £3,600.00 but said the following:
We arent prepared to repair the vehicle here. Ive had the customer on the phone 
swearing abuse at the staff. Is also now claiming theres an engine problem which is 
accident related.
So I dont consider that Admiral was responsible for all the delay up to late March 2023. And 
Mr Z wasnt using one of Admirals approved repairers. So I dont find that Admiral treated 
Mr Z unfairly by not providing a courtesy car up to that time.
I consider that Admiral was responsible for causing some of the delay in April 2023.
However, in mid-May 2023, Admirals approved repairer did an estimate totalling about 
£3,500.00. But it said the following:
Please see attached report most are wear and tear. We have not cleared any just in 
case. Is there any way that you can arrange a CIL on this one, from the start this PH 
has been awkward and abusive to our staff.
So Admiral couldnt have authorised repairs in April 2023. And I dont find that Admiral 
treated Mr Z unfairly by not providing a courtesy car up to that time.
The delay in April 2023 caused Mr Z extra upset and inconvenience at an already difficult 
time for him. 
Mr Zs response to the provisional decision
I think that Mr Z is saying that the car didnt have an engine problem before the malicious 
damage. And Ive noted that the damage included a split in the engine air intake behind the 
front grille. Nevertheless, I havent seen enough engineering evidence to show that the 
malicious damage caused an engine problem.
I accept Mr Zs point that the independent garage didnt include anything for the engine in its 
estimate. Its report that Mr Z was now claiming theres an engine problem which is accident 
related suggests that the garage didnt agree with that.
I also accept Mr Zs point that Admirals repairer didnt include anything for the engine in its 
estimate. I havent seen enough evidence that the repairer said there was no engine 
problem. Rather, I consider that the repairer was saying that there was an engine problem, 
but it didnt accept that it was related to the malicious damage.
I accept that the photographs show visible scratches. And I accept that Admiral hadnt 
repaired them by the time Mr Z complained (or later). I accept that he was left without the 
use of his car. Ive noted that Admiral made an offer of cash in lieu of repairs in late May 
2023. And Ive explained that this final decision cant deal with Mr Zs complaint about that.Conclusion
Im looking at the impact of the delay about which Mr Z had complained to Admiral leading to 
the final response. I find that Admirals offer of £100.00 compensation was fair and in line 
with what we would otherwise have directed Admiral to pay. So I dont uphold this complaint 
or direct Admiral to increase the amount of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman