DRN-2255707
The complaint
Mr G complains about advice given to him by Nationwide Building Society in October 1996, 
October 1997, June 1998 and September 1999. This was to invest in a Personal Equity Plan 
(PEP), Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB), World Guaranteed Equity Bond (World GEB) and 
Unit Trust was unsuitable. Mr G is being represented by a CMC.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He wrote to Nationwide setting out the 
background of the complaint. I have summarised that below.
Advice in October 1996
The adviser completed a document commonly referred to as a fact find. This records that 
Mr G was single, self-employed and had been trading for 12 years. He owned a half-share in 
a property worth £35,000. And he had £185,000 in savings accounts. His net income was 
£1,300 a month. His outgoings were £390 a month, so Mr G had a surplus income of £910 a 
month. 
Mr Gs attitude to risk was said to be Balanced. This was described as: You are willing to 
accept a moderate degree of risk in order to achieve a potentially higher return over the 
medium to long term i.e. 5 years or more. You would prefer to leave investment decisions to 
experts.
There is no attitude to risk questionnaire in the fact find. 
Mr G was advised to invest £20,000 in a GEB, £6,000 in a PEP and £14,000 in a Unit Trust. 
The GEB matured on 12 November 2001 for £28,956. Nationwide were unable to confirm 
whether there were any withdrawals or what the closing values were.
The GEB provided a guaranteed return of capital with the potential for growth over the five-
year term. The growth was linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 index.
The investment guide confirms the UK Growth Fund aimed to achieve capital growth by 
investing in a broad range of UK companies. Based on this description, it appears the fund 
is predominantly equity based.
Advice in October 1997
At the time, Mr Gs income and outgoings were similar to 1996. He had total assets of 
£210,442 available to invest. He wanted to invest £11,000. 
Mr G invested £5,000 in a World GEB and £6,000 as a top-up of his PEP. The World GEB 
matured on 18 November 2002 for £5,117.31.
The Key Features document explains the performance of the World GEB was linked to a 
number of indices including the FTSE100, S&P 500, Nikkei 225 and Dow Jones EURO 
STOXX.
The World GEB was a fixed six-year Bond. At the end of each year during the term of its 
anniversary, the rise or fall of the Bond was calculated. The maximum rise in one year was 
16.66%. There was no maximum fall. At the end of the six-year term, the percentage rise or 
fall in each year was added to give an overall percentage return. 
If there was no growth at all, or an overall percentage tall during the term  the whole of the 
original Investment would be returned.
Advice in June 1998
Mr G added a further £6,000 into his PEP.
In September 1999, Mr G invested £20,000 into a World GEB. This matured in November 
2005 and returned its original capital.
The CMC complained to Nationwide about the suitability of all the advice. In summary, they 
said:
The investments werent diversified
The World GEB was inappropriate as it was reliant on the performance of equities
Too much was risk was taken
The investments were too complex
Fixed rate bonds were not considered
Mr G was a first-time investor
His future needs and objectives werent considered
Nationwide issued a final response letter to the complaint. They felt all the advice was 
suitable and didnt uphold the complaint.
Nationwide has given our service consent to investigate the merits of this complaint.
The complaint has been investigated by one of our investigators. He wrote to Nationwide 
with his conclusions about the advice. He dealt with each time where advice had been given.
October 1996 advice
Our investigator thought the advice to invest in the GEB in 1996 was suitable. He was 
unclear how Mr G was adjudged to be of balanced risk. He was a first-time investor and all 
his money was sitting in cash. He thought the PEP and Unit Trust were unsuitable. The UK 
Growth Fund was too risky for Mr G  an inexperienced investor.
October 1997 advice
Our investigator thought the advice to invest in the World GEB was unsuitable. This was a 
product linked to a number of indicates and Mr G was unlikely to have had any experience 
with those. Mr G should have been advised to invest on a cautious basis to meet his 
recorded ATR.
June 1998 advice
Our investigator thought the advice to invest a further £6,000 into Mr Gs existing PEP in the 
UK Growth Fund was unsuitable.
September 1999 adviceOur investigator also thought advice to invest £20,000 in the World GEB was unsuitable. As 
it was a complex investment and Mr G did not have the experience to invest using the 
different stock market indices. The prospect of a nil return was also very real compared to 
the return Mr G could have received from a savings type account.
Nationwide did not agree. They said:
The regulatory landscape was very different for regulated sales made in 1996, 1997, 
1998 and 1999 as would apply today. The sales were appropriate and in line with the 
regulation in place at that time and shouldnt be assessed by todays standards.
Mr G was investing for the first time from a very strong financial position. Just 
because he was a first-time investor, shouldnt make that first-time investment 
unsuitable. Each investor has to start somewhere, and the PEP and Unit Trust, 
amounting to £20,000, only exposed 10.74% of his funds to equity-risk. This was an 
appropriate amount with the option to drip feed further amounts into it during future 
years. This is common, accepted and a reasonable practice.
The investigator said that an attitude to risk questionnaire wasnt completed. The 
customer was provided with the range of attitude to risks available, Cautious, 
Balanced and Adventurous, with each one having a clear definition as stated within 
the sales file. The customer then chose his attitude to risk from those available.
The recommendation to place £20,000 into the PEP and Unit Trust was appropriate 
and in line with Mr Gs chosen attitude to risk of Balanced. He was in a very strong 
financial position and had the capacity for loss as he had the ability to replenish any 
potential losses. He was therefore in a position to take a risk with a small portion of 
his funds within an equity-based fund. The file also documented the relevant risk 
warnings and the risks associated with investing into equity-based products.
In 1997, Mr Gs overall funds had increased to £210,442, so he was in an even 
stronger financial position at this time. He invested a further £6,000 into his PEP and 
took out a GEB for £5,000. He was again presented with the different levels of 
attitude to risk, with their respective definitions, and he again chose a Balanced 
attitude to risk. He was again in a position to take this level of risk into an equity 
based fund with a lower level of investment.
Turning to the GEB sale in 1997, they were confused as to why the investigator felt 
that this was inappropriate, yet the 1996 GEB sale was appropriate. The £5,000 
invested into the GEB it was a direct objective of the customer to take a modest 
degree of risk with the growth above the initial investment but he wanted a 
guaranteed return of the initial capital. 
It was also made perfectly clear at the outset within the recommendation that the 
return may only be the return of his original capital.
The investigator also mentioned the fact that as an inexperienced investor he 
wouldnt be familiar with investing in the Nikkei 225. But the customer wasnt directly 
investing into this fund. The GEB merely tracked a number of Indices. This is clearly 
different to investing directly into a fund. The investment was very low risk, with the 
guarantee of the return of the original capital at maturity along with the potential for 
investment growth from the GEB tracking certain indices.
In 1998, the customers financial position had become stronger as he had a diverse 
portfolio of £231,710, consisting of mainly cash, PEPs, Unit Trust and GEBs. The 
adviser recommended a further investment into the PEP. This was appropriate for his 
needs, documented attitude to risk and in line with the regulations at that time. 
At the sale of the GEB in 1999, the customers financial position had become even 
stronger, as his portfolio had now increased to £245,614, with the bulk of it on 
deposit, diversified by the PEPs, Unit Trust and GEBs he held. This was appropriate 
for his needs, documented attitude to risk and in line with the regulatory landscape at that time. The product had a capital guarantee attached to it and offered the potential 
for investment-related growth. 
In summary, they provided Mr G with suitable advice after a financial review each 
year from 1996 to 1999 with a drip-fed approach to investing. He started with a 
portfolio of £186,191, which then increased at each review up to £245,614 at the 
1999 review, as he became a more experienced investor. Its also clear that each 
recommendation was tailored to his individual needs and they were made in line with 
the regulation in place at that time.
The file was passed to me to review. I considered the evidence and asked the investigator to 
write to Nationwide. I thought the PEP sold in 1996 was suitable, but the UK Growth fund 
was not suitable. I asked if Nationwide could calculate any loss assuming that the Balanced 
fund had been selected.
I also thought that the World GEB was unsuitable because the returns were capped at 
16.6% in any year, but there could be negative returns. This did not appear to be the case 
with the GEB sold in 1996. 
Nationwide did not agree the policies were unsuitable. They were not able to calculate any 
loss by comparing the performance of the PEP invested in the Balanced fund rather than the 
UK Growth fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide say the advice given should be judged against the regulations and standards at 
the time the policies were sold. I agree. Since regulation was introduced in 1988 there has 
always been a requirement from the various regulators for firms giving advice to know their 
client and to give suitable advice. I have considered whether the advice was suitable based 
on the evidence and the rules at the time.
Mr G did not have any investments in 1996 but had saved a substantial amount in savings 
accounts. I agree with Nationwide that a first-time investor has to start somewhere. I have 
given some thought to the investments recommended and Mr s circumstances.
Advice in 1996
Nationwide assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk as balanced. This was described as:
You are willing to accept a moderate degree of risk in order to achieve a potentially 
higher return over the medium to longer term ie 5 years or more. You would prefer to 
leave investment decisions to experts.
I agree with the investigator that the GEB in 1996 was not unsuitable. It provided a 
guaranteed return of capital with returns in line with the FTSE 100 index. The returns did not 
appear to be limited  although we dont have full details of the way the bond worked. This 
seems to me to be in line with the description of risk Mr G was prepared to accept.
Investments were recommended in a PEP and a unit trust. The key features document for 
the PEP indicates that two funds were available. The objectives of these funds were:The Balanced Fund aims to provide long-term growth of both capital and income by 
investing in a broad range of UK and overseas companies shares and in fixed 
interest securities.
The UK Growth Fund aims for long-term capital growth by investing in a broad range 
of UK companies.
Mr G invested in the UK Growth fund. As can be seen from the description above, this was 
mainly invested in UK Equities. This appears to me to be a higher level of risk than the 
balanced risk Mr G was prepared to accept. Investing in UK Equities is undoubtedly a higher 
level of risk than the description given for the Balanced fund.
In my view, investing in the UK Growth fund was a higher level of risk than Mr G agreed to 
accept. It was his first venture into equity type investment. I think this was unsuitable for him. 
Although it was a relatively small part of his savings, I do not think the fund matched the 
level of risk he agreed for his investment.
Advice in 1997
Mr G topped up his PEP with £6,000. This was invested in the UK Growth fund. I think that 
was unsuitable for the same reasons as the advice in 1996.
I also agree with our investigator that the World GEB was unsuitable. The returns were 
linked to a number of worldwide stock indices. It isnt clear from the documentation exactly 
how the returns would be calculated. However, it had a maximum return that was limited at 
16.66% a year. If stockmarkets fell in any one year there was no limit to the amount the 
returns could fall. The returns were added together for each policy year over the term of the 
policy. So, any falls in the returns would offset any gains. 
The capital was guaranteed, but the returns were instead of any interest Mr G could have 
earned. Our investigator pointed out that Bank of England base rate was about 7% a year at 
the time. It appears to me that the returns from the World GEB were limited and any one 
year of poor performance could have a significant impact on those returns. In my view, there 
was a very real risk that Mr G would not receive a return on his capital, or that the return 
would be quite small. This compared to a limited potential for a high return.
The World GEBs therefore appear unsuitable. This does not appear to be the case with the 
first GEB, which provided a guaranteed return of capital plus any returns in line with the 
performance of the FTSE 100 index. And the returns on the GEB were not restricted in any 
one year. In my view, the potential upside of the World GEB for Mr G was very small 
compared to the interest he could otherwise have earned.
Advice in 1998
The advice in 1998 added another £6,000 to Mr Gs PEP invested in the UK Growth fund. 
Again, this was unsuitable because the equity content of the fund did not match Mr Gs 
balanced attitude to risk.
Advice in 1999
Mr G invested £20,000 in the World GEB. In my view, this was unsuitable for the same 
reasons as the World GEB sold in 1997.
Putting things rightMy aim is to put Mr G as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Nationwide do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Nationwide must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Nationwide should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
PEP 
(original 
investment 
and top-
ups) 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Unit Trust 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
World GEB 
for October 
1997 and 
September 
1999maturedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; date of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlementfor the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nationwide 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Nationwide totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr G 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Nationwide should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman