DRN-4319069
The complaint
Mr I complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) gave him a loan which he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr I also says that he tried on a number of occasions to contact Fund Ourselves to set up a 
repayment plan but his emails went unanswered. 
What happened
Mr I was advanced one loan by Fund Ourselves on 1 December 2022 for £450. Mr I was due 
to make four monthly repayments of £219.60. Mr I was able to make his first repayment as 
expected but has then had problems meeting his other repayments and an outstanding 
balance remains due. 
Fund Ourselves investigated the complaint about unaffordable lending and issued a final 
response letter (FRL) and determined that no error had been made when it advanced the 
loan. Fund Ourselves then sent a second FRL dealing with an alleged data breach as well 
as the fact it hadnt responded to Mr Is emails.
In response to the second FRL, Mr I sent to Fund Ourselves screenshots of the emails he 
had sent asking for a repayment plan. In response, Fund Ourselves said:
 we are not in a position that enables us to verify the authenticity of the screenshots 
provided, therefore we are reasonably certain that we have not received the 
communication emails you are referring to
Unhappy with these responses, Mr I referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At 
which point, Fund Ourselves explained Mr Is email address had been added to its spam list. 
Fund Ourselves also told the Financial Ombudsman that it had updated Mr Is credit file to 
remove the default which was applied and had agreed a repayment plan with Mr I which was 
due to start from July 2023. It also offered to reduce Mr Is balance by £50. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he upheld it. He said the loan ought to 
not have been granted because the credit check showed that Mr I was overindebted and 
was left with only £55 per month after all his costs. So, the loan couldnt be repaid 
sustainably. 
The adjudicator was also satisfied Mr I had contacted Fund Ourselves in order to arrange a 
repayment plan. However, he thought the offer Fund Ourselves had made was fair expect 
that the payment of £50 should be made directly to Mr I rather than going towards reducing 
his outstanding balance.  
Fund Ourselves accepted the adjudicators findings and explained that the new outstanding 
balance to pay would be £230.40. It also agreed to pay Mr I directly £50 for not responding 
to his emails. 
The offer was put to Mr I and he accepted  the complaint then closed. 
However, the day after the complaint closed, Mr I emailed to say that he wasnt getting 
anywhere with Fund Ourselves, and if didnt pay the compensation by the end of the day he 
wanted to take the complaint further. Which was contrary to what Fund Ourselves told him  
that being the payment was being processed and it could take up to five working days. 
While trying to sort this matter out, Mr I disclosed information to both the adjudicator and to 
Fund Ourselves about his mental health. 
Mr I, when he didnt hear from Fund Ourselves, asked for the complaint to be considered by 
an Ombudsman. Fund Ourselves said the payment of £50 was made on 21 August 2023. 
Mr I didnt accept that the payment had been made and asked for an additional £50. 
Following communication between the adjudicator and Fund Ourselves it agreed that it 
would reduce Mr Is balance by £50  giving a new outstanding balance of £180.40.
This offer was put to Mr I and he didnt accept it  saying it was utterly disgraceful
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I am sorry to hear about Mr Is mental health problems and I do hope he is getting some help 
and support with this. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Is complaint.
Mr I doesnt appear to disagree that the loan ought to not have been granted, so I dont need 
to make a finding on this especially because Fund Ourselves has also accepted this. But for 
clarity and for completeness I have outlined at the end of the decision what Fund Ourselves 
has already agreed to do in order to put things right for him  in relation to the decision to 
lend. 
And Fund Ourselves has confirmed that even after the balance has been recalculated 
Mr I will still owe it a sum of money. And I would encourage both parties to engage in order 
to find a way forward so Mr I can repay what is owed. And I remind 
Fund Ourselves to treat Mr I fairly and with forbearance as well as taking account of what it 
has recently been told about his health. 
I accept that Mr I wants an apology from Fund Ourselves and I completely understand that, 
given that he provided evidence of him sending emails and asking for a repayment plan. 
Initially, Fund Ourselves couldnt authenticate what he had send it  which I am not too clear 
as to why. However, it did later accept that Mr Is emails were marked as spam. 
Fund Ourselves has in a way, already apologised for Mr I because it says it has already said 
it needs to pay £50 compensation to reflect that something went wrong. And while adverse 
information was reported as a result of the emails not being actioned, Fund Ourselves said 
this was removed within a couple of days  which I consider to be reasonable as it seems to 
have acted fairly quickly to correct the mistake. I know that Mr I now thinks that isnt enough and he wants an apology. But this isnt 
something that I would ordinarily ask, because it isnt really sincere of the lender to apologise 
if it is being asked to do so. I do acknowledge Mr Is strength of feeling about this matter, but 
I do think the total award that Fund Ourselves has now said it will pay is fair and reasonable.  
There is some disagreement about whether the £50 payment of compensation has been 
made to Mr I. He says he hasnt received it whereas Fund Ourselves has provided evidence 
that it has been sent. This payment needs to be received by Mr I, and so 
Fund Ourselves may wish to double check the payment has been sent to the correct bank 
account. 
Following the closure of the complaint and following the involvement of the adjudicator, 
Fund Ourselves, has agreed to reduce Mr Is balance by £50 rather than make a further 
payment directly to him.  This balance reduction of £50 is in addition to the £50 award that 
Fund Ourselves has paid / will pay to Mr I directly. 
Ive thought about this, and in the circumstances given that the complaint was initially closed 
as resolved and looking at the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves 
to suggest this new resolution. So, I am doing to direct Fund Ourselves to reduce Mr Is 
balance by a further £50  if it hasnt already done so. And Ive formally set this out in the 
putting rights section below.  
I know Mr I will be disappointed with the decision that Ive reached on this case, but Ive 
thought carefully about everything both parties have said, and given what has gone on, the 
total redress that Fund Ourselves is going to make is in my view fair and reasonable to 
resolve these issues. Moving forward, as Ive said above, there will likely need to be some 
discussion about how the outstanding balance is to be repaid. 
Putting things right
Fund Ourselves has already accepted the below needs to be done, and so I reiterate here 
what it needs to do  if it hasnt already done so.  
A. Fund Ourselves should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr I as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr I having made overpayments then 
Fund Ourselves should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Fund Ourselves should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr I. And I would remind Fund Ourselves of 
its obligation to treat Mr I fairly and with forbearance and this will include considering 
the information he has disclosed about his health.
C. Pay Mr I directly, if it hasnt already done so £50 compensation. 
D. And as agreed, Fund Ourselves should also reduce the outstanding balance by a 
further £50.  
E. Fund Ourselves should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit file 
in relation to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Is complaint. 
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED should do, as directed above, if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman