DRN-2651119
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt inform him about 
enhanced annuities and the other options available to him when he purchased his annuity. 
What happened
Mr H had pension plans with Prudential. In 2010, Mr H used his plans to purchase two 
annuities from Prudential, as well as taking a small amount of tax-free cash. 
The annuities were set up on a single life basis and were guaranteed for a period of 
10 years. 
In 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr H several times. They said the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had carried out an industry wide review of non-advised annuity sales and found that 
some people could have been eligible for an enhanced annuity. The FCA had asked 
Prudential (along with other pension providers) to review some non-advised annuities set up 
from 1 July 2008. So, they asked Mr H to complete an information form about his annuities 
and post it back to them. 
In early 2020 Mr H returned Prudentials form with the information they asked for. The form 
recorded that at the time of taking his annuity, Mr H didnt smoke or have any of the medical 
conditions listed on the form. Mr H also recorded that he selected his annuity option based 
on information provided to him in a retirement pack. But he said he was unaware that he 
could have received an enhanced annuity if he had certain medical or lifestyle conditions. 
Nor was he aware that he was able to shop around with different annuity providers. 
Prudential contacted Mr H in April 2020 to say they had completed their assessment of his 
annuity purchases. They said they were satisfied that the information they provided to Mr H 
at the time had met the FCAs requirement. And Mr H had since confirmed that hed made 
his decision based on Prudentials information. They said they had therefore closed their 
review and there would be no change to Mr Hs annuity. 
Mr H responded to Prudentials letter. He said he hadnt confirmed that he had relied on 
Prudentials information as theyd said. He also wasnt aware that he had the option to 
choose from another provider and so he didnt have the information he needed to make the 
decision about his annuity. He said if hed know he had other options, he would have chosen 
differently.
Prudential treated Mr Hs letter as a complaint and sent a response letter to him. 
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint as they said hed signed the additional information 
form which recorded that hed made his decision based on their retirement information pack. 
Prudential had reviewed the information within the pack and decided that there was sufficient 
information about enhanced annuities and the Open Market Option (OMO) for Mr H to have 
made his decision. Prudential went on to say that it had also taken Mr Hs answers to the 
health and lifestyle questions into consideration when reaching their decision.
Mr H remained unhappy with Prudentials response and so brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator said they were satisfied that Prudentials literature met their 
obligations to provide Mr H with the necessary information to make an informed decision 
about his annuity. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion as he said Prudential had originally told him he 
could make a claim because they hadnt given him the right information at the time. 
However, theyve since said that wasnt the case. Mr H says he doesnt agree that Prudential 
followed the correct protocols at the time as he didnt know he could buy an annuity 
elsewhere. As Mr H disagreed, the case had been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue to determine here is whether I think its likely, on balance, that Prudential sent 
Mr H sufficient information about enhanced annuities and the OMO before he purchased his 
annuity in 2010.
I appreciate that Mr H says Prudential told him he could make a claim as theyd given him 
the wrong information when he purchased his annuity. However, Ive read the letters that 
Prudential sent Mr H in 2019 and I dont think that was the case. Ill explain why.
The letters Prudential sent said the FCA had asked them to review certain non-advised 
annuities to see if customers were provided with sufficient information about enhanced 
annuities before they made their decision. At no point in the letter did Prudential say that 
Mr H had been mis-sold or mis-advised by them, or that he had a basis for a claim. The aim 
of the letter was to invite Mr H to have a review of his annuities and asked that he complete 
an information form about how he made his decision at the time. 
Following their review Prudential said the information theyd provided Mr H in their 
retirement pack was sufficiently clear about enhanced annuities and the option of 
purchasing an annuity elsewhere through the OMO. Prudential have sent us the retirement 
pack that they say they sent Mr H in 2010. The Prepare your retirement options and Key 
facts documents appear to be dated from around the correct time  2009.
Having reviewed the documents, Im satisfied the information they provided on enhanced 
annuities and the OMO were sufficiently clear. The OMO is referred to on page 16 of the 
document and explained in more detail on page 27. Amongst other things, it says: 
However, when it comes to taking your income you're free to shop around to find the 
best option to suit you. Not all providers offer you the same pension annuities, 
options or terms - so it's best to check what we are offering you and use this as a 
basis to find the deal that's best for you.  
Regarding enhanced annuities the documents also clearly pointed out Mr H could have 
received a higher income if hed had a medical condition that qualified for one. And the 
documents list the types of illnesses that would have made Mr H eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. 
Mr H says in his complaint to us that he didnt receive the documents Prudential say he did. 
When evidence is missing or conflicting as it is in this case, I base my decision on what I 
think, on balance, is most likely to have happened. In the additional information form Mr H returned in 2020 he ticked to say I selected the 
annuity options based on information provided in the retirement pack only. Prudential have 
provided us with the correct documents from the relevant time period and say they sent them 
to Mr H. So, while I appreciate Mr H now says he doesnt recall receiving or reading the 
documents, I can see he was sent his annuity quotes in 2010. And I think, on balance, 
Prudential would have included the relevant information with his quotes.
Prudential went on to say they still considered Mr Hs answers to their health and lifestyle 
question when they reached their decision. And Mr H recorded that he didnt suffer from any 
of the prescribed medical or lifestyle conditions in 2010 that would have made him eligible 
for an enhanced annuity. So, I think it was fair for Prudential to conclude it met the FCAs 
requirements and didnt need to do make any changes to Mr Hs annuity.
For the reasons Ive given, I think Prudential provided Mr H with sufficiently clear information 
about enhanced annuities and the open market option. And Im also satisfied theyve taken 
account of the information Mr Hs since provided when reaching their decision. So, I wont 
ask them to do anything more.    
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman