DRN-3616107
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) gave him three loans he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr S took out three loans with L2G. The first was a cash loan, followed by two 
logbook loans, meaning they were secured on Mr S car by way of a hire purchase 
agreement. None of the loans ran concurrently as each new loan was used to settle the 
previous one. 
Loan one was taken out in January 2019 and was for £300. It was settled the next day due 
to loan two starting and paying it off. Mr S made no payments towards loan one. Loan two 
was for £1,300. Mr S was required to make 18 monthly repayments of around £215. 
In May 2019, Mr S took out loan three, which he used to settle loan two, in addition to 
borrowing some additional capital. Loan three was for £1,500 and Mr S was required to 
make 24 monthly repayments of around £260. The total repayable was £6,252.
Mr S began to fall into arrears on loan three soon after taking it out. In March 2022, Mr S 
complained to L2G to say the loans were unaffordable and he shouldnt have been given 
them. He said that had L2G completed appropriate affordability checks before lending it 
would have seen that Mr S couldnt afford them. 
L2G didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had carried out thorough affordability checks 
before approving each agreement. It said this included asking Mr S about his income and 
regular expenditure as well as checking his income and credit commitments with a credit 
reference agency. It said that these checks showed that Mr S had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the borrowing. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that L2G 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks for any of the loans. However, 
she wasnt persuaded from the evidence Mr S had supplied that more detailed checks would 
have likely demonstrated that the borrowing was unaffordable to him. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit, L2G were required to complete affordability checks to ensure Mr S 
would be able to repay the finance without difficulty. There isnt a set list of checks L2G were 
required to complete, however, it needed to ensure that any checks it did complete were 
proportionate in the specific circumstances of that lending decision. In deciding what is 
proportionate, L2G needed to take into account factors such as (but not limited to): the total 
repayable, the size of the repayments, the cost and type of finance and Mr S specific 
circumstances.
Loan one was settled within a day of Mr S taking it out without him making any repayments 
towards it. It was settled by Mr S taking out loan two. In doing so, loan two simply paid off 
the capital (which was added to the borrowing on loan two) and no interest was charged.  
Therefore, I dont think its necessary for me to make any specific findings in relation to this 
loan. I say this because even if I were to conclude that L2G shouldnt have granted this loan, 
Mr S hasnt suffered any loss as a result. 
I dont think L2G completed reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to loan two. 
I say this because what Mr S declared his financial circumstances to be had noticeably 
changed from what he declared under loan one. However, there was only one day between 
the application for loan one and loan two. I think this obvious discrepancy ought to have 
caused L2G some concern especially as the credit checks it completed showed that Mr S 
had some relatively recent history of missed payments and arrears on other credit.
In the circumstances I think it would have been proportionate for L2G to have verified Mr S 
financial circumstances. L2G says it did this for his income by asking a credit reference 
agency to check whether Mr S income broadly matched what he had declared. While in 
certain circumstances this might be a reasonable way to verify income, I dont think it was 
here. I say this because L2G ought to have been on notice that Mr S had been inconsistent 
about what he earned and had displayed signs of potential financial difficulty. So, I think it 
should have done more to gain more certainty about what he earned as well as what he was 
spending his money on. 
I cant be certain what evidence L2G would have asked for or seen had it completed 
proportionate checks. However, Ive reviewed copies of Mr S bank statements from the 
three months prior to the application as an indication of what L2G would most likely have 
discovered had it sought to verify Mr S financial circumstances in more detail. For clarity, Im 
not suggesting L2G were required to, or should have, requested bank statements from Mr S. 
But, in the absence of anything else, I think its reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in them as to what would likely have been revealed at the time.  
Having done so, Ive not seen anything to indicate that L2G would likely have found loan two 
to be unaffordable to Mr S. The amount of income he declared in his application for loan two 
appears to be very similar to what he actually earned. Further, the sums he declared for his 
overall essential expenditure appear to be broadly accurate. It seems that Mr S also had 
payments to and from other accounts some of which he said were for his partner to cover 
essential household expenditure. From what Mr S has provided to support his complaint, Im 
not persuaded that these demonstrate L2G ought to have realised he couldnt afford loan 
two, even if it had done more thorough affordability checks. In summary, his bank 
statements dont support that he had insufficient disposable income to afford the repayment 
to loan two without difficulty. I therefore dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
granting loan two. 
I dont think L2G completed proportionate affordability checks in relation to loan three either. 
It was aware that Mr S had paid late on at least one occasion with loan two and the credit 
checks revealed some further evidence of some payment difficulty with other borrowing. This 
ought to have indicated to L2G that even though only a few months had passed since loan 
two, that Mr S financial circumstances may have deteriorated. For that reason, I think it 
should have done more to verify his income and expenditure, rather than relying on what he 
had declared and what it had tried to gather from a credit reference agency. 
Weve asked Mr S to provide us with copies of his bank statements for the months leading up to loan three to understand how his circumstances might have changed and what L2G 
might have discovered if proportionate checks had been completed. However, Mr S hasnt 
provided us with the information and evidence weve asked for. I therefore havent seen 
anything to persuade me that more thorough affordability checks ought reasonably to have 
caused L2G to realise the loan was likely to be unaffordable. From the information contained 
in the statements dated prior to loans one and two, Mr S appears to have had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the payments under loan three without difficulty. As Ive not 
seen anything to demonstrate his circumstances had significantly changed since then and 
that L2G ought to have seen that, I cant say that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
granting loan three. 
I note Mr S has told L2G that he is now in financial difficulty and is struggling to repay the 
remaining balance. I remind L2G of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly and with forbearance 
when discussing repayment of the outstanding amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman