DRN-3399947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) wont remove 
an exclusion from their decreasing life and critical illness policy. 
For ease, Ill refer to Mrs P throughout this decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2017 Mr and Mrs P applied for a decreasing life and critical illness policy with 
L&G. The application was accepted, but an exclusion was added for Mrs P in respect of 
multiple sclerosis (MS), because Mrs P disclosed on the application that her father had been 
diagnosed with MS. The policy runs until 2041.
Mrs P has recently been diagnosed with MS. She contacted L&G to say that she had made 
a mistake on the 2017 application when saying her father had been diagnosed with MS. And 
provided a letter from her neurologist which says her father suffers from some neurological 
problems related to the cervical spine. Mrs P said she didnt intend to make a claim at this 
time, but she wanted the MS exclusion removed in the event she wanted to make a claim in 
the future. 
L&G said it couldnt remove the exclusion. It said it had been applied based on information 
Mrs P provided on the application. L&G also said Mrs P was asked to check the information 
shed provided before the policy was put in place. L&G said the information Mrs P provided 
from her neurologist didnt confirm her father hadnt been diagnosed with MS. 
Mrs P complained to L&G, but it didnt change its position. So, Mrs P referred the matter to 
the Financial Ombudsman. She said when she completed the application, she assumed her 
father suffered from MS given how his symptoms presented. And that it has since been 
confirmed by her neurologist that there is no connection between her fathers health 
condition and her MS diagnosis. Mrs P said shes always been truthful and made an honest 
mistake when completing the application. She wanted L&G to remove the exclusion based 
on the new medical evidence. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She found L&G had correctly 
applied the MS exclusion, based on the information Mrs P disclosed on the application. And 
she didnt think L&Gs decision not to remove the exclusion was unreasonable. 
Mrs P didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She felt she was being 
penalised for her innocent naiveness and for being over accurate on the application in 
respect of her fathers medical condition. She accepted shed made a mistake  but said 
shed not tried to hide anything, and this was simply down to human error. Mrs P also 
questioned what information she could provide to prove her father didnt have MS given his 
medical records are private. She said she just wanted her policy updated to reflect the true 
and accurate position  and if it isnt, Mrs P questioned what benefit the policy will be to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mrs P, which is made worse given her current state of health. I want to assure her that I 
didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for her and her 
family. While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say L&G has treated her unfairly. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Its not disputed that Mrs P declared on the application that her father had been diagnosed 
with MS. I have no reason to doubt she was answering the application honestly and based 
on her understanding of her fathers condition at the time. And Im satisfied the questions 
Mrs P was asked around her familys medical history were clear and unambiguous. 
L&Gs underwriting of the policy  including its decision to apply the exclusion for MS - was 
based on the information both Mr and Mrs P provided. This is normal practice for an insurer 
when assessing any risks associated with its offer to provide cover. And having looked at 
L&Gs underwriting guidance, Im satisfied the MS exclusion was correctly applied. 
Mrs P now wants the exclusion removed to reflect what she says is the correct position in 
terms of her fathers diagnosis. But L&G dont accept the evidence is compelling. 
Mrs P doesnt have access to her fathers medical records. And has based her request for 
the exclusion to be removed on a letter written after a consultation she had with her 
neurologist in relation to her own MS diagnosis. Her consultant noted:
Family history 
Her father has some neurological problems related to the cervical spine for which he 
underwent some surgery. Therefore, essentially, her family history is unremarkable.
L&G has said this information isnt enough to prove Mrs Ps father doesnt have MS. And I 
agree. I say that because the above reflects a conversation Mrs P had with her neurologist  
and isnt an assessment of her fathers medical condition. Ive considered the fact that this 
was a discussion around a possible MS diagnosis for Mrs P  and I do think its unusual 
Mrs P didnt mention her father had been diagnosed with MS. Which does add some weight 
to her argument that she didnt know the specifics of her fathers diagnosis but assumed, 
when she applied for the policy, that he had MS based on how his symptoms presented. 
But the fact remains that L&G based its underwriting decision to add the MS exclusion on 
information provided by Mrs P at the point of application. Its not privy to any supporting 
medical evidence at that time  and so had no reason to doubt what it was told. Mrs P was 
asked a clear question about her familys medical history and specifically if they had MS  
and L&G had no reason to believe the information Mrs P disclosed was incorrect. 
Nor is L&G refuting clear medical evidence to show Mrs P made a mistake about her fathers 
diagnosis (and by that, I mean something that shows beyond doubt that hed never been 
diagnosed with MS). 
So, taking all this into account, I cant say L&G has done anything wrong here. It could be 
that Mrs P made a mistake when completing the application form, but that isnt L&Gs fault. 
And, so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable of me to ask L&G to remove the MS exclusion 
from Mr and Mrs Ps policy. I appreciate Mrs P has said it could be difficult to get more evidence to prove her father 
doesnt have MS. But without that evidence, I cant see what more L&G can be expected to 
do. If more evidence does become available, then she should present that to L&G for its 
consideration.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman