DRN-2342042
The complaint
Mr G says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly. He says he had very little money to spare and so he couldnt afford the 
repayments to the loans. He also said his credit file showed he had numerous defaults, bad 
credit markers and other lending. He thinks Satsuma should have seen all this and not lent 
to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr G between July 2017 
and July 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)monthly 
paymentsdate ended
1 16/07/2017 £100 6 £31.60 10/10/2017
2 08/09/2017 £550 6 £91.30 29/09/2017
3 24/07/2018 £350 12 £58.10 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G partly disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. He said that:
he agreed that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt be upheld
he said that he had significant other short term and high cost credit at the time of loan 
3. He said the repayments he was scheduled to make to all of these were higher than 
his income. 
 As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having thought about all of this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive explained 
why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending and Im only looking at loan 3. But they were part of the 
borrowing relationship Mr G had with Satsuma and so they are something I will take into 
account when considering the other loan he took.
As is shown in the loan table above Mr G took two loans in late 2017 and paid these off 
relatively quickly. And whilst I can see that Mr G was declined for a loan in March 2018 there 
was a break of over eight months before loan 3 was approved. I think this was a long 
enough break in lending for Satsuma to have effectively treated Mr G as a new customer. 
So, the checks it made before approving loan 3 would be proportionate considering this was 
the first loan in a second chain of borrowing.  
Loan 3 was for £350 and Mr G due to repay just over £60 a month over 12 months. Ive seen 
a record of the information Mr G provided when he completed his loan application. Mr G said 
he had a monthly income of £1,700 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £500. So, it 
would have been reasonable for Satsuma to initially think that Mr G could afford the 
repayments. 
Satsuma added just under £900 to the amount it said that Mr G was repaying to other loan 
providers (rather than the £100 he declared). But it still thought that that Mr G would be able 
to make the loan repayments as he would be left with disposable income of around £400. 
Again this, on the face of it, was not unreasonable given what Mr G had told it. 
Mr G has provided full information about the other debt he had at the time. It is mainly 
longer-term high cost credit and instalment loans. There are a few short-term loans. But 
much of it was taken at around the same time, or just before, loan 3. It would be unlikely to 
have all appeared on the credit searches that Satsuma did. So I dont think its reasonable to 
say that Satsuma should have taken into account all of this debt. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr G mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the 
information it obtained when the loan was started. And I think that Satsuma got a reasonable picture of Mr Gs finances at the time, given that 
this was his first loan after a long break and the checks Satsuma needed to do couldve 
been less rigorous because of this. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for loan 3 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Mr Gs complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman