DRN-4331109
The complaint
Mr S has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) provided him with a 
replacement phone that wasnt comparable to his original phone which was damaged.
References to West Bay include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Mr S had an iPhone 11 128GB phone which he acquired on 5 November 2019. He reported 
this phone lost on 2 October 2020. West Bay provided him with a replacement iPhone 11 on  
30 October 2020. It emailed him on that date confirming that the package he would receive 
contained a black iPhone 11 128GB. Mr S paid a policy excess of £100. 
It was only at the end of December 2022 that Mr S, having dropped and damaged his 
replacement phone, realised that it only had 64GB.
He raised this with West Bay and asked it to provide him with an iPhone 14 Pro with 1TD of 
memory. West Bay accepted that hed received the incorrect phone and apologised for his 
upset and frustration but said it couldnt provide him with what hed requested. Instead, it 
offered him three options:
1. If Mr S returned the damaged device, it would replace it with an iPhone 11 128GB.
2. It offered to refund the difference in the two phones.
3. It offered to refund the difference in the two phones and also the excess hed paid.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with West Bays proposal in response to his complaint or the manner in 
which his complaint had been handled. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that the options offered by West Bay were fair and reasonable 
and he wasnt going to ask it to do anything more.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with our investigators view, so its been referred to me for a review and 
a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ss policy with West Bay and what West Bay is required to do 
when providing a replacement phone. The relevant term is this:
The intention of this policy is to put you back in the same position as immediately prior to 
the loss or damage. It is not a replacement as new policy. If the gadget cannot be 
replaced with an identical gadget of the same age and condition, we will replace it with 
one of comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into account the age and 
condition of the original gadget. We cannot guarantee that the replacement gadget will be 
the same colour as the original item. Where an equivalent refurbished item is not 
available, we will offer vouchers or a cash settlement based on the market value of the 
original gadget taking into account its age and condition.
So West Bay shouldve provided Mr S with  a phone of comparable specification, namely a 
128GB phone. It only provided him with a 64GB replacement. Its accepted that this was a 
mistake. But Mr S didnt notice this until over two years later when the phone was damaged. 
This suggests that the lower memory wasnt obvious to Mr S and didnt cause him 
inconvenience. 
But I can appreciate Mr Ss concern that he might have paid more each month for a 128GB 
phone when he only had a 64GB phone. Im not in a position to say what the price 
differential would have been between these two models each month over a two-year period, 
but I would expect that West Bay or indeed Mr S would have access to this information from 
Mr Ss network provider.
In my opinion, West Bay has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. It 
acknowledged its error and gave Mr S three options, two of which would ensure that he was 
refunded the difference between what hed paid each month for a 128GB phone and what he 
shouldve paid for the 64GB phone hed actually received from West Bay. I consider it 
unreasonable for Mr S to expect West Bay to provide him with the replacement phone that 
he asked for as this would be a betterment contrary to the policy term that Ive quoted above. 
I also dont consider it appropriate, given West Bays offer, to require it to refund Mr S his 
premiums for the period since he received the incorrect model of phone.
Other than to request that West Bay keep open its original settlement options for acceptance 
or rejection by Mr S, Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman