DRN-2923577
The complaint
Mr B complains about delays caused by ICICI Bank UK Plc when making a withdrawal from 
his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here.
The fact that ICICI caused a delay in Mr Bs withdrawal is agreed by all parties. The 
withdrawal shouldve been processed in mid-December 2020, but it wasnt actually 
processed until mid-January 2021. 
ICICI paid Mr B £80 for the trouble cause by the delay, but unhappy with this level of 
compensation brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
what happened and thought the £80 was reasonable for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- Mr B has said that the delayed withdrawal didnt cause him any financial loss; which 
Im glad to hear. So Ive thought about the impact the delay had, and the 
inconvenience it caused.
- From the information provided by Mr B I can see that he made at least seven 
telephone calls to ICICI dealing with the withdrawal. I can also see he had trouble 
using the secure messaging system. Both of these things were clearly frustrating.
- I also know that Mr B was worried about the delay because if he had received the 
money much later he wouldve incurred costs  which I am happy to see he didnt 
incur.
- Its clear to me how strongly Mr B feels about what happened. He initially asked for 
£120 compensation, and then when dealing with our investigator he said that £150 is 
more appropriate. 
- Mr B says that ICICI were completely in error, and I agree. ICICI also agree and have 
apologised for what happened. However my role isnt to punish a business for any 
mistakes. Its to look at what happened and see what I think about the offer thats 
been made. Having done so I think the £80 paid to Mr B is a fair and reasonable way 
of putting things right.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the £80 paid by ICICI is a 
fair resolution of the complaint so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman