DRN-3550683
The complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money Personal Financial Service Ltd (Virgin) irresponsibly 
gave him a loan without adequate checks. 
What happened
On 26 May 2021, Mr B applied for a loan of £7,000 with Virgin. 
In 2021, Mr B brought a complaint to us about Virgin to say that the account shouldnt 
have been opened for him because they had performed insufficient checks to see it was 
affordable, as Mr B had issues with gambling at that time.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Virgin will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Bs complaint is that Virgin made credit available that was unaffordable and with 
insufficient checks. Virgin has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit 
reference agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. That check did show 
an existing loan. Mr B had declared a good level of income and so, maybe not surprisingly, 
the loan was accepted automatically; no manual underwriting was required. 
Mr B has pointed out that he took out two other loans in the same month he took out the 
loan with Virgin, so the searches couldnt have been sufficient. Virgin has explained that 
those loans would not have had time to show up on the check performed by the credit 
reference agency. Such checks often pick up credit information from the previous month at 
best. And so, I do not consider it to be a failing on Virgins part that they were unaware of 
the other loans Mr B was taking out at a similar moment in time to the Virgin Loan. 
It is possible that had they been aware of these other loans that this may have caused 
Virgin to want look at Mr Bs finances more closely. Mr B thinks these other loans would 
have indicated some degree of financial difficulty. But for the reasons given above, Virgin 
didnt know about those loans, and that was not necessarily as a result of insufficient 
checks. 
And Mr B himself did not put Virgin on notice of his financial difficulties as a result of his 
gambling issues. When Virgin asked him the reason for the loan Mr B told them it was to 
buy a car. Mr B has told us it was to fund some gambling. Mr Bs own testimony suggests 
that not only was he experiencing difficulties that had financial implications but also that he 
was hiding those difficulties from the business he wanted to borrow from. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, based on the particular details of 
this complaint, I dont think that Virgin did, necessarily, fail to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr B with credit. But even if it had, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Virgin to think the credit was automatically unreasonable. I say that because Mr B 
declared a good level of income and his declared outgoings were modest. And Mr B was 
managing his current account such that income was matching the outgoings and the 
account was in a positive balance. Mr Bs existing credit level would not have made the new 
borrowing automatically unreasonable based on his declared income, the credit report 
suggested that only one other application for credit had been made in the previous twelve 
months and the credit report suggested that Mr Bs financial situation was under control 
largely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence that Virgin failed to make sufficient financial checks before lending to Mr B. And 
Ive seen insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have 
led Virgin to think that the credit limit it provided Mr B was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman