DRN-3326781
The complaint
Mr R complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc, 
trading as Hitachi Capital, for damage to a car that he returned at the end of his hire 
agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr R under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital in March 2017. 
The car was collected from him in March 2021 when the agreement ended and it was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Hitachi Capital. The inspection report identified 
damage to a door mirror, a wheel and the rear bumper (as well as damage to the bonnet and 
front bumper). Hitachi Capital charged Mr R £215 for that damage (but not the damage to 
the bonnet and front bumper) and then agreed to reduce the charges by £50 to £165. 
Mr R complained to it about the charges but it said that the mileage was agreed in the hire 
agreement, it doesnt issue refunds for unused mileage and the mileage has no bearing on 
the damage found on the car. It said that the damage charges had been applied correctly but 
it had reduced the outstanding balance on Mr Rs account to £165. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that the cars 
mileage when it was returned was just over 20,000, about half of the agreed amount as 
more than twelve months of the hire period had been affected by the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic. He says that the reduced mileage of the car more 
than compensates for the damage charges and he received no communication about the 
possibility of a refund due to the enforced reduction of use that was out of his control. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the amount charged for damage found outside of the fair wear and tear standards 
wasnt excessive or unreasonable and she didnt think that it would be fair to say that Hitachi 
Capital should be compensating Mr R for not being able to drive the car as much as he 
anticipated or for not reaching the maximum permitted mileage. She said that Hitachi Capital 
didnt have to provide Mr R with any proof of work done on the car and that it wasnt under 
any obligation to repair the car.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes provided his 
calculations of the additional profit that he says that Hitachi Capital has made and says that 
the morality of the charges and the one-sided rules should be looked at. He says that a fair 
resolution would be for Hitachi Capital to waive the charges because of the vastly increased 
profit that it has made and that it can afford to write-off the charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the car was supplied to Mr R under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital which said: 
If you fail to use, look after or maintain the vehicle properly, you may have to 
compensate us; and the terms and conditions said: You agree  to keep the 
vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any damage 
caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as 
indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA);
the car was collected from Mr R and inspected when the agreement ended in March 
2021 and damage to the car was identified;
Hitachi Capital charged Mr R £75 for a scuffed wing mirror, £65 for a scuffed wheel 
rim and £75 for a dented bumper  it didnt charge him for paint damage on the 
bonnet and front bumper and it agreed to reduce the total charge by £50 to £165;
Hitachi Capital has provided photos of the damage and I consider that the damage is 
more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance 
with the BVLRA guidelines;
Mr R had agreed to compensate Hitachi Capital for the damage and I consider that 
its fair and reasonable for it to charge him the amounts recommended in the 
inspection report for that damage  Im not persuaded that theres any requirement 
for Hitachi Capital to provide any other evidence to show the cost of repairing the 
damage;
the total allowed mileage under the agreement was 40,000 miles and the inspection 
report shows that the cars mileage when it was returned was 20,345 miles  Mr R 
clearly feels very strongly that Hitachi Capital should waive the damage charges 
because of the lower mileage for which the cars been driven which he says has 
been caused in part by the government imposed restrictions in response to the 
pandemic;
Mr R had agreed to hire the agreement for the payments set out in the hire 
agreement  the agreement didnt contain a provision that the total payments would 
be reduced if he drove less than the total allowed mileage or that any higher value of 
the car should be off-set against any payments due under the agreement;
I sympathise with Mr R for the affect that the government imposed restrictions in 
response to the pandemic had on his use of the car but Im not persuaded that there 
was any requirement for Hitachi Capital to reduce the rental charges under the hire 
agreement because of those restrictions; 
Mr R had agreed to hire the car on the terms set out in the agreement and if those 
terms werent acceptable to him I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him 
not to have hired the car;
Hitachi Capital has agreed to reduce the charges to £165 and Im not persuaded that 
its acted incorrectly in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Hitachi Capital to further 
reduce, or waive, the amount that its charged Mr R for the damage to the car, to pay 
him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman