DRN-1886609
 
The complaint
 Mr C has complained that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) refused to deal with a
claim he and his wife, Mrs C, made on his motor insurance policy. Mr C is the policy holder 
and Mrs C is a named driver on the policy. 
 What happened
 I issued a provisional decision in May this year saying I was considering not upholding this 
complaint. An extract from that decision follows:
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs Cs car was involved in an accident. At the time the car was 
insured with a different insurer who Ill refer to as A. Mr and Mrs C insured the car with 
Zenith in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to A for the repairs. The car was returned to As repairer a 
number of times for more work. This went on for quite some time and as there was no 
resolution between the parties Mr and Mrs C complained to us.
Among other things Mr and Mrs C were unhappy that A said it wasnt responsible for 
damage to one of the doors because it said that the car had been involved in a second 
accident at some point between February and July 2019 when it was insured with Zenith. 
Mr and Mrs C denied that there was a second accident.
Another ombudsman looked at the complaint against A and issued his final decision in 
March this year. In his decision the ombudsman found that there had been no second 
incident. He said the remaining damage to the car was either because A failed to diagnose 
a pre-existing problem properly or the repairs were poor. In addition to awarding 
compensation for hire costs, travel and other costs, he said that A should treat the car as a 
write off from July 2019 and pay Mr and Mrs C the market value plus interest. Mr and Mrs C 
accepted the ombudsmans decision though I appreciate they have raised some further 
issues with A since the decision was issued which I wont go into in this decision.
Whist we were considering the complaint against A, Mr and Mrs C also made a claim to 
Zenith. They said that as As engineering expert believes there was a second accident while 
the car was insured by Zenith which caused the damage to the door, Zenith should pay for 
the repairs to the door.
Zenith rejected the claim because it said Mr and Mrs C themselves dont agree that there 
was a second accident and believe the damage resulted from As poor repairs. It also said 
that if Mr and Mrs C are able to provide evidence as to how the damage occurred whilst 
insured by it then it would register a claim subject to the policy excess. It warned that it 
would count as a fault claim as there would be no other party to make a recovery from. Mr 
and Mrs C then complained but their complaint was rejected.The complaint against Zenith was then referred to us. One of our investigators reviewed it 
but he didnt think it should be upheld for the same reasons as Zenith and thought Zeniths 
proposal about a new claim was fair.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said that the 
investigator didnt provide a credible alternative to As experts conclusion about the second 
accident. They also thought that Zenith should pay for the repairs and if necessary try to 
make a recovery from A. Our investigator didnt change his view so Mr and Mrs C asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
Mr and Mrs C made further points during that time, namely that Zenith advised them not to 
drive the car in July 2019 until it was repaired but is now saying that advice was wrong. And 
also that they have legal expenses insurance and Zenith should have allowed them to claim 
through that policy.
Between then and now, the ombudsmans decision in relation to the complaint against A 
was issued and accepted.
Mr and Mrs C then made some additional points and said they asked Zenith for call 
recordings which it hasnt provided and would like me to consider this as part of this 
complaint. They should have a loss of use claim against Zenith as they werent able to use 
their car while it was insured with it.
The file was then passed for me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
In this decision I will only be looking at Zeniths actions as Mr and Mrs Cs motor insurer 
though I appreciate there is some overlap between this and the complaint against A. As that 
complaint has already been decided by another ombudsman who made findings that have a 
bearing on this complaint, I wont be able to revisit those myself. What this means is that 
where the other ombudsman decided on an issue or fact I cant reach a different decision.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy provides cover for, amongst other things, damage to their car that 
happens during the period of insurance. Zenith said that the car was added to an existing 
multi-car policy with it in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs Cs car was in an accident in November 2018. This was before their cover with 
Zenith started. I appreciate they said that As expert has said there was a second accident 
after the Zenith policy started. But Mr and Mrs C themselves dont believe that to be the 
case, though they say theyre not experts themselves. The ombudsman in the complaint 
against A has already found that there was no second accident. This means that I cant look 
into this point any further and make a different finding.
As the accident that led to the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs car took place before their policy 
with Zenith begun, I dont think under the terms of its policy, Zenith is responsible for those 
repairs.
Furthermore, the other ombudsman has asked A to write off Mr and Mrs Cs car and Mr and 
Mrs C accepted his decision. As the car will be written off I wouldnt be able to ask Zenith to do any repairs in any event. And so Mr and Mrs Cs arguments in relation to Zenith making 
a recovery against A would fall away too.
Mr and Mrs C said Zenith advised them not to drive the car until it was repaired. They asked 
what would have happened if they had driven the car and crashed and made the poor 
repairs worse. They question whether Zenith would have been asked to provide insurance 
despite asking them not to drive the car.
From what Ive seen this wasnt part of Mr and Mrs Cs original complaint to Zenith or to us 
and under normal circumstances I wouldnt be able to consider this part of this complaint.
But I appreciate Mr and Mrs C want to draw a line under this matter. Zenith hasnt provided 
any call recordings but its file notes say that it didnt advise Mr and Mrs C whether they 
should drive the car or not. Whether Zenith advised them to drive the car or not, this really 
isnt material to this decision. As far as I am aware Zenith hadnt set up a claim and wasnt 
involved in any of the repairs. I understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about further damage 
but I cant award any compensation for something that couldve happened but didnt. Also, 
regardless of whether the car was driveable or not, Mr and Mrs C have a legal obligation to 
insure it unless they register it as being off the road (SORN). This is a decision that they 
would need to make not something an insurer would advise them to do.
Mr and Mrs C also said Zenith shouldve allowed them to use their legal expenses 
insurance. Again, this isnt something that was raised with Zenith when the complaint was 
made. But as A is paying for the total loss of the car I dont think this is relevant any more. 
In any event from what Ive seen from their policy schedule their legal expenses cover is 
provided by a different insurer, not Zenith. So they would have to speak to the other insurer.
They should bear in mind that legal expenses cover only applies to specific disputes and is 
also dependent on a legal assessment to determine whether they have reasonable chances 
of succeeding in their legal claim, that the claim cost effective to pursue etc. But as I said 
above if the issue of making a recovery form A is no longer live then I think this issue is no 
longer relevant.
Finally, Mr and Mrs C said they should be able to claim for the loss of use of their car under 
their Zenith policy. As I dont think that they have a valid claim under their policy with Zenith 
(as the accident that is responsible for the damage to their car happened before this policy 
started) I am not going to ask Zenith to pay any compensation in relation to this. I say this 
because any loss of use claim would flow from the original accident which happened before 
Zenith was their insurer.
I appreciate that this matter has been going on for a very long time and has been the cause 
of a lot of distress for Mr and Mrs C. And I know that they will be disappointed with my 
decision. I hope that I have been able to explain sufficiently well why Im not considering 
upholding their complaint against Zenith.
Developments
Zenith responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further comments to make. 
Mr and Mrs C made a number of points and though Ive considered them all, I will refer to 
the ones I consider to be the most relevant in this decision. They said:
They shouldnt have been left without a car because of a dispute between two 
insurance companies. And they shouldnt be left to sue an insurance company 
because of a fraudulent claim made against them by another insurance company. Denying them their loss of use claim means we determined that it was unreasonable 
for them to stop using a car that they were told was dangerous. 
Weve determined that they need to pay their car insurance indefinitely despite 
renewing the policy since it was written off. 
We have put them in a position where they were verbally assaulted by A. A has also 
caused them to pay extra tax.
We have granted A permission to add multiple claims against them on the insurance 
database which makes it harder for them to obtain insurance through price 
comparison websites because they are classed as lying on their application. 
Mr and Mrs C have also raised concerns about our service. As they are already aware these 
are being considered separately, and not be me, so I will not refer to them in this decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Ive decided not to change any of the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. 
Before I go on to say why, Id like to explain that as this decision is about Zenith Im unable 
to address the concerns Mr and Mrs C have raised about A. 
Mr and Mrs C said they now have to pay for insurance indefinitely but I cant see that this is 
something I have asked them to do. In my provisional decision I said there is a legal 
obligation to insure a car unless it is SORN. But generally if a car has been written off and is 
no longer owned by a consumer (or the consumer is not its registered keeper) they can stop 
insuring it. As far as I'm aware the decision for Mr and Mrs C's car to be written off was 
made after they insured it with Zenith.
Mr and Mrs C also said that denying them their loss of use claim suggests that I think they 
unreasonably stopped driving a car they were told was unsafe. This wasnt the reason I 
didnt award their loss of use claim. In my provisional decision I said that as the accident that 
led to the claim didnt happen during the period of cover provided by Zenith, I cant ask it to 
pay for the loss of use claim. That is because there is no valid claim under that policy in the 
first place. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C feel they have been left without the compensation they were 
due because of a dispute between two insurers. I dont think there has been a dispute 
between the insurers. As I said in my provisional decision Zenith said it would deal with a 
second claim if Mr and Mrs C provided evidence to show there was a second accident- 
during its period of cover. But another ombudsman has already decided that there was no 
second accident and that all the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs car was due to the first accident 
when they were insured with A. 
As I said above, in this decision I am only looking at Zeniths actions and for the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, including the fact that the accident that caused the damage 
Mr and Mrs C have claimed for occurred before Zenith started insuring the car, I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given in this decision and in my provisional decision I am not upholding 
this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman