DRN-2243794
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his international money 
transfer. 
 
What happened
Mr A had a bank account with Barclays. In November 2019 he made an international money 
transfer of £200. Around a week later he made another payment and subsequently asked for 
the first payment to be recalled. He said the first payment had gone to the wrong account, 
even though he had entered the right account number.
Mr A made a complaint to Barclays. He said the account number had been altered after he 
had entered it. He also said Barclays had initially tried to recall the wrong payment.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that as the payment went to the wrong 
account, the account number entered must have been incorrect so it couldnt identify a bank 
error. However it apologised for originally setting up a case regarding the wrong payment 
and offered £30 compensation for this mistake.
Barclays subsequently attempted to recall the payment, but unfortunately this was 
unsuccessful. 
Mr A didnt think its response was fair. He said he had copied and pasted the account 
number from an email, so it wouldnt have been wrong. He said the number must have been 
altered once he entered it. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that she couldnt see that Barclays had made an error so wouldnt be able to ask it 
to put things right.
Mr A disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing a complaint I need to first decide if the business have done something 
wrong. Where it has, I will direct it to put things right for its customer.
In this case Mr A says that when he made the first international payment, he copied the 
same account number for the first payment as he did for the second one which was 
successful. So he says the first number must have been altered by Barclays after it was 
entered. 
Barclays have said that once a number is entered for the transfer, the only way it can be 
changed is by the customer. So it says Mr A must have put an incorrect number in when he 
made the transfer.
As both sides dispute what happened, I need to consider what is more likely to have 
happened. 
When a transfer is arranged, it is the consumers responsibility to ensure the details entered 
are correct. The bank then uses that information to make the transfer. In my experience, 
once details are entered by the customer, it is unlikely this will be changed. The bank just 
receive these details in order to carry out the instruction. So it seems unlikely that Barclays 
would have changed the number entered for the transfer after they were entered by Mr A.
I understand Mr A feels strongly that he entered the details correctly. And I appreciate how 
frustrating the situation has been for him, and that he is out of pocket because of it. But 
Barclays has attempted to recall the payment. Unfortunately, this hasnt been successful as 
it requires the cooperation of the recipient. But as I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Barclays has made an error relating to the transfer, I cant ask Barclays to do anything 
further. 
Barclays did make an error when it set up Mr As case to recall the payment. And it has 
offered £30 to make up for this. As this error was rectified quickly, I think this is fair in the 
circumstances.
For these reasons I cant see that Barclays has made an error when arranging Mr As 
transfer. So I wont require it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I wont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman