DRN-4396152
The complaint
Mr L was unhappy with the difficulties he encountered when trying to communicate with 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) regarding his motor insurance claim. His 
written off car was delayed in getting picked up by the salvage team.
What happened
Following an accident, Admiral accepted Mr Ls claim and wrote off his vehicle as it was 
beyond economic repair. He received a valuation a few days later after hed spent a long 
time trying to contact Admiral. 
Mr L thought the valuation was too low and said he spent many hours on hold during a 
one-week period whilst trying to speak to someone at Admiral. He tried to use the chat 
facility online but was told his query needed to be done by phone. 
Mr L accepted a settlement figure, but the written off car wasnt picked up for a further five 
weeks by the salvage team. Admiral apologised for the delays and for the difficulties Mr L 
experienced trying to contact it. It paid Mr L £125 in compensation. Mr L wants £500 in 
compensation. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He increased the compensation by £150 
(to £275) in total as he thought the delays and waiting on the phone had caused a greater 
inconvenience for Mr L. Mr L disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has accepted its service has dropped below the standard that it ought to provide, so 
Ive only considered what the appropriate level of compensation is.
Having reviewed the case, I think Mr Ls expectations for compensation are unrealistic. Our 
service has a defined framework for setting compensation. Whilst I uphold the complaint, I 
think the £275 total stated by our investigator is in line with what our service would award for 
circumstances such as these. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr L spent a long time trying to contact Admiral. Admiral has explained it was a 
busy time, but acknowledged it needs to ensure enough agents are available at these times. 
The accident occurred just before the new year and Mr L had agreed a settlement just under 
two weeks later. I think this is a reasonable amount of time. I dont think Admiral has taken 
longer than I would expect, especially when considering in that time were two weekends and 
two bank holidays.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr L not been able to contact Admiral, and that is why I 
think compensation is due. However, I dont think the time between the accident and the 
settlement been agreed is unreasonable.
I think Admiral shouldve picked up the damaged car earlier. Therefore, I do think 
compensation is fair, but I dont think what Mr L has requested is proportionate to the actual 
distress and inconvenience suffered. I think in any claim there will be a level of 
inconvenience due to the incident itself and having to go through the claims process. Unless 
there are obvious hazards in not picking up the vehicle immediately, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the salvage would normally take a few weeks. I think the actual delay is 
only a couple of weeks, so I can see this may have caused Mr L a small inconvenience. 
There isnt evidence that Mr L has suffered a financial loss in storing his vehicle.
Therefore, as Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and will increase the level of 
compensation by £150 (to £275 in total) for distress and inconvenience, in line with our 
compensation framework.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Mr L
£150 compensation (so £275 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman