DRN-3211679
The complaint
 This complaint is about a mortgage porting application that Mr E and Ms S made to 
The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform. Mr E and Ms S say the application was 
unduly delayed, causing them to incur extra legal fees for changing conveyancing 
solicitors. Platform has paid compensation but Mr E and Ms S dont think its enough. 
They want their extra legal costs to be reimbursed, along with a refund of the fees 
incurred for repaying the existing mortgage.
 
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision issued on 7 December 2021, I set out, with reasons, how I 
intended to determine this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the 
following conclusions.
Ill start with the fees charged when the existing mortgage was repaid. Mr E and Ms S were 
porting; that is, carrying over the interest rate product from their existing mortgage to the new 
one taken out when they moved house. But whilst that allowed Platform to waive the early 
repayment charge associated with the interest rate product, the mortgage exit fee and title 
management fee were still legitimately due. Thats because the old mortgage was closed 
down, and replaced by a new one secured by a charge over a different property, and Land 
Registry needed to be informed that the title to the former property was no longer the subject 
of a mortgage
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Platform to pay Mr E and Ms S 
the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Platform unduly and 
excessively delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay 
was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mr E and Ms S. 
Looking at the overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that the latter applies. 
Its common ground that Platform was slow to pass the additional income information to its 
underwriters; thats why it offered compensation of £100. But that aside, Im not persuaded 
there were specific failures or omissions on Platforms part that would amount to undue and 
excessive delay. 
I understand its upsetting when things dont go to plan, but ultimately, Im not persuaded the 
main reason Mr E and Ms S ended up putting their possessions in storage and buying a 
different property is because their seller had withdrawn from the transaction due to delays. 
Rather, I think it was more likely because they feared that could happen. 
I think that was the dominant driver of Mr E and Ms S decision, and that isnt enough for me 
to say Platform should meet the bulk of their extra transaction costs. The fact that the seller 
did subsequently accept a higher offer doesnt change that. I fully appreciate why Mr E and 
Ms S would want to protect their house move. It might have been a choice between two 
unwelcome alternatives, but it was their choice to act as they did. 
On the subject of compensation for time, trouble and upset, this is very much a subjective 
area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment, when 
subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving house. But I have to take a step back and 
assess things objectively. When I do that, I agree with our investigator that £100 is a fair 
settlement in all the circumstances.
That leaves the question of the extra costs Mr E and Ms incurred due to having to change 
solicitors. The reason for this was that the first solicitor they chose (who Ill refer to as H) 
was apparently unacceptable to Platform, due to being a sole practitioner. This happened 
quite late in the transaction, after Platform did a search in October 2020 and realised H didnt 
meet the qualifying criteria for its panel of approved solicitors. 
Mr E and Ms S evidence, which I find persuasive, is that that they told Platform at the 
beginning of the process that they had instructed H, and were told this was fine. It seems to 
me that Platform missed an opportunity here; if it had conducted the search in August 
instead of October, it could have told Mr E and Ms S right away that they wouldnt be able to 
use H for the conveyancing. 
That being so Mr E and Ms S claim for extra legal costs isnt the £487 they paid to their new 
solicitors, because they were always going to have to pay that. If things had gone as they 
should, Mr E and Ms S would have known at the outset that they couldnt use H, and would 
have gone straight to the second solicitor without first instructing H. 
In reality, Mr E and Ms S true claim, which Im presently minded to award, is reimbursement 
of the abortive costs they paid to H before having to change solicitors. As part of their 
response to this provisional decision, Id ask Mr E and Ms S to provide a copy of the invoice 
(and proof it was paid) for the abortive legal fees charged by H.
The parties were given until 21 December 2021 to make any further comments; both have 
replied sooner than that. Platform has accepted my provisional decision; Mr E and Ms S also 
accepted it, and provided the evidence I asked for about what they were charged by the two 
firms of solicitors. The evidence provided by Mr E and Ms S show that the amount they paid H was reduced by 
£300 from its original quotation, because it didnt act for Platform in the transaction. 
Meanwhile, their new solicitors charged Mr E and Ms S £487 to act for Platform instead, so 
the extra cost Platform should reimburse them is £187.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered afresh what both parties have said and provided. Having done so, Ive no 
reason to change my decision.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Platform to:
 
reimburse Mr E and Ms S £187;
pay Mr E and Ms S interest at 8% simple* on the above sum, from the date the invoice 
was paid to the eventual date of settlement; and
pay Mr E and Ms S £100 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. 
*If Platform considered it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element of 
this award, it must then supply Mr E and Ms S with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman