DRN-3015961
The complaint
Miss S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) misled her into thinking it 
would pay all of her vet fees under her pet insurance policy rather than part of them.
Miss S is represented in this complaint by her sister but, for ease, Ill refer to Miss S 
throughout.
What happened
Miss S had a pet insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. In August 2019 her dog 
was diagnosed with peritonitis and the vet said he needed immediate surgery. The vet gave 
an estimate of the initial costs and in early September 2019 Miss S called RSA who 
confirmed that her policy covered her for the operation. Sadly, Miss Ss dog died shortly after 
he had the surgery. Miss S made a claim for the costs shed incurred, which were about 
£8,000. But RSA said she was only covered up to £2,500. And as it had already paid a claim 
for the same condition, it paid her about £1,700. 
Miss S complained to RSA as she thought it had given her wrong information when shed 
called in September 2019, which had led her to believe her claim would be fully covered. As 
a result, shed been left with a large bill to pay and that was affecting her mental health.
RSA partly upheld the complaint. It accepted it had told Miss S she was covered for the 
operation when she had called to check. And it recognised it could have gone a step further 
and confirmed the policy limits. It gave Miss S £150 as it felt the service it had provided 
could have been better. But it said the information Miss S had been given was correct and it 
didnt accept it was liable for the remainder of the costs. It said her policy documents clearly 
set out the level of cover, which confirmed her policy covered her for 12 months per 
condition from the date of first treatment or up to the vet fee limit of £2,500, whichever came 
first. And there was an onus on the customer to ensure they know what their policy covers. It 
also noted that RSA had mentioned the limit on her policy when shed called about another 
matter in May 2019. Miss S remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything more. She said the policy limit was 
clearly set out in the schedule RSA had sent to her and it had mentioned that in the call with 
her in May 2019. She thought the £150 RSA had given her for not mentioning the £2,500 
limit in the call of September 2019 was reasonable. She noted that Miss S hadnt mentioned 
the costs in the call with RSA and, had she done so, the conversation might have been 
different. 
Miss S still believes she was misled by RSA and she didnt accept the investigators view. 
So, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent in dispute. RSA accept its call handler told Miss S her insurance 
covered her for the operation on her dog. And it also accepts the call handler didnt explain 
the limits to that cover. The question here is whether RSA should pay more of the vet fees 
than it has in light of its failure to fully explain the policy limits in that telephone call. And, on 
balance, I dont think it should. Let me explain why. 
Miss Ss pet insurance policy says it will pay vet fees for 12 months from the first date of 
treatment or until the policy holders vet fee limit is used up, whichever happens first. It goes 
on to say that, Once that has happened you will no longer have cover for that injury or 
illness. The policy says the policy holders schedule shows which cover theyve chosen for 
their pet. Miss S renewed her policy with RSA in September 2018 and the policy schedule 
says the Vet Fee Limit is Standard £2,500. 
As the surgery on Miss Ss dog cost over £8,000, she was not insured for the full costs of 
that operation and Im satisfied RSA has acted in line with the terms of her policy by limiting 
the payments to £2,500 (although I note that it also deducted about £800 from that amount 
as it had already paid out for the same condition). 
Does the September 2019 telephone call change things? Ive listened to that call. Its very 
brief and theres no discussion about the cost of the operation or about the limits to the 
amount RSA would pay. As our investigator said, the conversation might have been different 
had the amount of expected costs been raised. But they werent. 
I can see that it would have been helpful had the call handler gone further and explained the 
policy limits to Miss S in that telephone call. But the call handler gave Miss S the correct 
information  the operation was covered under her policy. And I also think theres a certain 
responsibility on policy holders to make themselves aware of the terms and conditions of the 
insurance they buy. In this case, Im satisfied the terms of Miss Ss policy, together with the 
policy schedule sent to Miss S in September 2018, clearly explain the limits to her cover. Ive 
also listened to the call Miss S made to RSA in May 2019 and the call handler on that 
occasion mentions the £2,500 limit for each condition. So, taken together, Im satisfied RSA 
did enough to make Miss S aware of the limits to her insurance cover. 
RSA has acknowledged its service could have been better during the call and paid Miss S 
£150 to recognise that. And I think thats a reasonable amount in the circumstances. Im 
sorry to hear about Miss Ss dog and the problems shes experienced but, for the reasons 
given, I dont think RSA needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered to pay Miss S £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Miss S if 
it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman