DRN-2419061
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way her floor was installed by contractors employed by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc following her home insurance claim for water damage. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mrs H made a claim for water damage to her home. RSA accepted the claim 
and proceeded to carry out extensive repairs. In particular in her living/dining room her 
wooden floor had to be taken up and a new one installed. Mrs Hs representative, Mr M, 
negotiated with the contractors about the supply and installation of the floor. Mrs Hs old floor 
wasnt laid on a base rather it was screwed and glued to the floor joists. The contractors 
found this surprising and said the new floor would need to be laid on a chipboard or similar 
decking. However Mr M advised that the tongue and groove (T & G) flooring was self-
supporting and didnt need a sub -decking. Mr M had consulted the manufacturers who 
assured him that the floor could be laid directly on the joists. RSAs contractors went ahead 
and installed the floor in that way.
The repairs were completed in August 2018. Soon after the floor was laid Mrs H became 
concerned that the floor was squeaking and moving. She was a told it would settle down. By 
August 2019 the problem with the floor had got worse. Mrs H obtained reports from two 
contractors both of whom said the floor shouldnt have been laid in that way and that it was 
poor workmanship. She contacted RSA who consulted with its contractors. They advised 
that the one year warranty had expired but in any case they had laid the floor in accordance 
with Mr Ms instructions, despite their misgivings. RSA sent out a further contractor to advise 
on the state of the floor. They essentially confirmed that the floor shouldnt have been laid 
that way but the actual fitting of it was satisfactory. RSA advised Mrs H in March 2020 that it 
couldnt help her any further. However it accepted that it had taken a long time to deal with 
her complaints and offered £150 compensation.
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSA hadnt carried out a full and effective 
repair and that it should do so. She thought the compensation offered was reasonable.
RSA didnt agree, it said it had carried out Mr Ms instructions and that it would have been 
criticised if it had refused to install the floor in ther way requested.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has obtained reports from two contractors. Both said the floor had been inadequately 
fixed, although had different views on how the floor could be reinstalled. One said a damp 
proof membrane (DPM) should have been installed, although RSA said that as there wasnt 
one there before, that would be betterment. But in my view the most instructive opinion came 
from the independent contractors RSA instructed. They said:
The workmanship itself has been done well however the flooring has been fitted directly 
onto joists, which any contractor in their right mind would never have done, hence the 
creaking. So, it does essentially boil down to workmanship but the finish within the property 
is good.
Whilst Mr M had given instruction on behalf of Mrs H as to how the flooring should be 
installed its obvious that the contractors had misgivings about it, saying that it would be 
normal to install it on chipboard or other such decking. And although I note that that the 
finish was good, the floor has excessive movement. And the above opinion is quite definite 
and in my view shows that fixing the floor directly to floor joists is not anything a reasonable 
contractor would do and was likely to lead to the problems now experienced. I appreciate 
that Mrs H had a firm opinion about what she wanted, but as far as I can see the contractors 
didnt consult with the manufacturers, leaving that up to Mr M. And I dont think Mr M held 
himself out as having any particular expertise on the subject.
So, by installing the floor in the way they did, the contractors would have known that there 
were potential difficulties. If Mrs H had insisted on the method of installation, they couldve 
asked her to sign some form of waiver saying she accepted the potential difficulty over the 
method of installation. Or at the very least the contractors or the loss adjuster could have 
made it clear in writing to Ms H so she was aware of this.
So I dont accept that RSA had no choice but to proceed in the way it did. As its clear that 
the floor isnt fit for purpose it needs to be taken up and a new one laid. The exact method of 
installation will have to be agreed between RSA and Mrs H. Ive noted that a chipboard or 
plywood decking might raise the floor level. I wouldnt expect RSA to relay the floor in breach 
of any manufacturers recommendation so that might have to happen. If a DPM neds to be 
installed I think RSAS should do this in order to carry out an effective repair. Ive also note 
that Mrs H has asked that RSA pay for the storage of her furniture while the work is carried 
out. If that has to happen, then RSA should arrange it.
Ive noted that RSA offered Mrs H £150 for its delay in dealing with her complaint. Since 
complaints handling isnt a regulated activity I have no power to make any award in respect 
of that. But if Mrs H wants to accept the offer she should contact RSA directly
Putting things right
RSA should arrange for Mrs Hs wood flooring to be reinstalled in the proper manner, 
including as necessary a sub-decking and a DPM. It should also again as necessary arrange 
for the storage of Mrs Hs furniture.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act in accordance 
with what I have set out under Putting things right above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman