DRN-3043538
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr and Mrs L says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Santander has confirmed Mr and Mrs L took 
the policy out during a phone conversation and its provided a script it says its 
representatives were advised to follow during telephone sales  I think its likely this was 
broadly followed. The wording prompted the representative to ask if they wanted the 
policy, which I think made it clear that the policy was optional.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mrs L, 
who was the one covered by the policy, was eligible for the cover and although they had 
existing means they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ls employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs L as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs L would have declined the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L amended the policy in 2007 around the same time as they took a further 
advance. Its not clear whether they contacted Santander or the insurer directly to change 
the policy, but Mrs L has confirmed that her circumstances were the same and I havent 
seen anything to that would impact on my findings above.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman