DRN-4441447
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) dealt with the 
repairs to his car following a claim he made on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has a cherished car which is insured with Admiral on a comprehensive basis. 
Mr M made a claim on his car insurance after his car was damaged. He had the car repaired 
but it was carried out at a non-approved garage. Mr M says Admiral instructed an 
independent assessor to check the work and it was subsequently signed off. 
Mr M arranged for his car to go into storage when it was returned to him in September 2021. 
When he took the car out of storage in March 2022 he noticed there were patches on the 
body of the car where he says the work hadnt been carried out correctly. 
Mr M approached the garage to rectify the work but the garage didnt accept any liability. 
They said they didnt know what had happened between when the car was collected and 
when it was brought back to them. Mr M says the garage also said Admirals assessor had 
signed off the work before the car was returned and at that stage the work was deemed 
satisfactory.  
Mr M says Admiral inspected the car after it was repaired so it should accept some 
responsibility for the state of repair. He says he met the assessor and saw the car at the time 
and under the garage lights it looked fine, it was only when Mr M took the car outside that he 
saw the nature of the paintwork. 
Mr M complained to Admiral. Admiral accepted Mr M was provided with inconsistent 
information in respect of the repair and rectification works. And to reflect the inconvenience 
this caused to Mr M Admiral offered £150 by way of an apology. It also awarded a goodwill 
payment of £50 for the time taken for Admiral to deal with Mr Ms complaint. 
Admiral said an Independent Assessor (IA) inspected the car following the initial repairs and 
signed it off and as being complete, after carrying out the inspection under ultraviolet light. 
When Mr M reported the flaws in the paintwork Admiral arranged a further inspection by an 
IA. Admiral said it wouldnt authorise the rectification work since the repair was carried out by 
a non-approved repairer. It said it has no control over repairs which are carried out by a non-
approved repairer since this is an agreement between Mr M and the garage he chose. And 
so it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Admiral so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she didnt think Admiral acted 
fairly. She said it hadnt followed its own terms and conditions, had effectively taken control 
of the rectification work, and hadnt explained to Mr M that by using his own repairer the 
work couldnt be guaranteed. She recommended Admiral pay the cost of the rectification 
work in resolution of the claim.
Admiral didnt agree. It provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr M outlining that if he proceeded 
to use his own garage there would be no guarantee for the repairs, Admiral would have 
limited ability to help if Mr M was dissatisfied with the repairs, and Mr M wouldnt be provided 
with a courtesy car. 
Admiral said the repairs were dealt with by a garage chosen by Mr M and since the costs 
were high it instructed an IA to carry out an inspection to agree method and cost of repair. It 
said it didnt sign off any work, and it is for Mr M to take his complaint up directly with the 
repairing garage. Admiral also disagreed the car had initially been inspected under UV light 
and says the October 2022 report only mentions that the flattening works would not have 
been noticeable under ultraviolet light. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint where I explained why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said;
There is a lot of information about the claim Mr M made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well known to both Mr M and Admiral, so I havent described the claim 
in any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain 
my decision. 
Initial Repair by Non-Approved Repairer
The terms of the policy allow Mr M to choose his own repairer to complete necessary works 
to his vehicle. But the terms are specific about how those claims are dealt with. The terms 
say,
if you do not wish to use our Approved Repairers an additional excess will apply, which will 
be confirmed on your policy schedule. We will be unable to provide you with a courtesy car, 
and you will need to obtain two estimates from a chosen repairer. 
So Mr M obtained a quote from his preferred repairer. Admiral thought the quote seemed 
high and so sent an IA out to inspect the vehicle. In the March 2021 report the IA agrees to, 
authorise detailed polish and inspect thereafter. And this is what it did. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to want further information to substantiate the claim. I can see 
Admiral had involvement in agreeing the costs and scoping the work. And I think this was 
reasonable given it was liable for the costs at this stage.
When the cost of the work was considered too high by Admiral, under the terms of the policy 
it should have requested for Mr M to obtain a second cost estimate for the work. Admiral 
didnt do this. Admiral has said it didnt ask for a second quote since Mr M had taken his 
vehicle to the cars manufacturer and Admiral considered them to be the experts. But in 
doing that I think it raised Mr Ms expectations about what Admirals involvement would be in 
the claim and it wasnt acting in line with the terms of the policy. 
Once the work was completed a further inspection was carried out in July 2021. From the 
notes I can see Admiral attended a second inspection at the request of the repairing garage 
who said it wouldnt release the car until it had been inspected. The report detailed some 
minor works that needed to be completed, and they were agreed by the garage. The 
Assessor confirmed he didnt need to see the vehicle again, and so the car was returned to 
Mr M following those further repairs. 
Signing off on the vehicle repairsI cant see that Admiral specifically signed off on the repairs once the work was completed 
and before the car was handed back to Mr M. 
But I dont think its relevant whether Admiral signed off on the work or not. The terms of the 
policy are clear that if a customer uses a non-approved repairer Admiral will not be 
responsible for guaranteeing the repairs and will have limited liability to help should Mr M be 
dissatisfied with the repairs, as was the case here. And Admiral have provided this service 
with a copy of a letter sent to Mr M which explains the extent of Admirals involvement in 
such situations. So I think Admiral acted within the terms of the policy in its handling of this 
part of the claim. 
Subsequent Inspections and scope of works 
Mr M arranged for his car to be placed in storage in September 2021. In March 2022 he took 
the car out of storage and noticed the patchwork finish to the paintwork. He notified Admiral. 
At that stage, under the terms of the policy Admiral werent liable for the repairs. So I would 
have expected it to refer to the terms of the policy and explain to Mr M that he would need to 
resolve the matter himself since he had chosen to go to a non-approved repairer. 
But Admiral didnt do this. Instead it instructed its IA to inspect the vehicle and this led to Mr 
M believing Admiral would pay for the cost of the rectification work. From August 2022 to 
October 2022 Admiral inspected the vehicle on more than one occasion, each time outlining 
work that needed to be completed, and liaising with Mr M and the repairing garage to agree 
the scope of work. Given Mr M used a non-approved repairer to carry out the initial work, 
and the policy is very clear about Admirals role when non-approved repairers are used, its 
not clear to me why it was involved at this stage. 
Admiral has said it inspected the vehicle because the initial estimate was too high. And I 
think thats reasonable when the issue with the paintwork first arose. But not thereafter. And 
so I cant say Admiral acted fairly or reasonably, or within the terms of the policy here. 
Settlement of claim 
Strictly speaking, under the terms of the policy, Admiral are not liable to meet the cost of the 
rectification work since Mr M used a non-approved repairer to carry out the initial repair to 
the paintwork. But it didnt act in line with the terms of the policy relating to non-approved 
repairers.
In line with my remit, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral 
to refute liability and decline the claim at this stage because Mr M used a non-approved 
repairer. Based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think it is. 
On review of the information provided to me by both parties, I think Admiral tried to work with 
Mr M in dealing with the issues he was having. Particularly where the matter wasnt covered 
under the policy. 
Given the policy for using a non-approved repairer, Admiral was entitled to reject the claim 
when Mr M contacted it after noting the subsequent issues with the paintwork. In trying to 
assist Mr M the matter has been prolonged, contributing to delays and further distress and 
inconvenience to Mr M. Admiral didnt manage Mr Ms expectations well since he was under 
the impression Admiral would assist him in the rectification work and pay the claim in full. 
Had Admiral declined the claim in March 2022 Mr M would likely have made his own 
arrangements regarding the rectification work. Admiral had instructed an IA to commission reports on the remaining damage to Mr Ms car. 
And I think it tried to be fair to Mr M in accepting the claim. But it doesnt have a never-
ending liability to Mr M or this claim. And so I think its appropriate to now bring the matter to 
an end and settle things fairly. I am therefore upholding Mr Ms complaint but I realise my 
directions to put things right will disappoint him since Im not requiring Admiral to meet Mr 
Ms potential ongoing claim in respect of the rectification work. 
Response to my provision decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Admiral accepted my findings. Mr M didnt provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that Admiral accept my findings and Mr M didnt provide anything further in 
response to my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of the 
final decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  
Putting things right
Since Admiral didnt manage Mr Ms expectations and contributed to the delays and 
prolonging the claim, I dont think its fair that it now declines the claim for the rectification. 
So I think its fair that it pay for the rectification work. I dont expect Admiral to have an 
ongoing liability for those works, however, and any further work that may be required would 
be Mr Ms responsibility, as per the terms of the policy. 
Had Admiral dealt with the claim correctly in the first instance I dont think Mr M would have 
needed to continue to engage with this service, Admiral, the IAs, and the repairing garages 
in an attempt to repair his cherished car to a satisfactory standard. Im satisfied this has 
taken time and effort from Mr M, and I dont doubt it would have been both stressful and 
upsetting. Admiral has already awarded Mr M £200. And so I think Admiral should pay Mr M 
a further £150 to recognise the trouble and upset. I think this is fair and falls in line with our 
services approach. So I intend to direct Admiral to pay this additional amount. 
I intend to direct Admiral to; 
Settle Mr Ms claim for the rectification work to his vehicle,
If Mr M has already paid for the work then it should reimburse him for those costs
If further rectification works are required then Admiral are not liable for those
Add interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple to the above, from the date Mr M paid 
the monies to the date of settlement
Pay Mr M a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited and direct it to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023. 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman