DRN-4110473
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a secured loan they took out with Black Horse Limited in 
2006. They have numerous concerns about the sale and administration of the loan, but this 
decision will only deal with the following points:
The loan was sold to another lender, which they believe only happened to problem 
loans, which theirs is not.
and 
They have asked to speak to a manager several times when their enquiries were not 
being responded to, but they didnt receive a call back.
What happened
The loan agreement documented that Mr and Mrs M were borrowing £56,000 over a term of 
216 months  18 years. The loan was advanced in 2006. The terms and conditions detail 
under section 9 GENERAL:
9.1 We may transfer any of our rights under this Agreement. You may not transfer yours.
On 20 May 2015 Black Horse wrote to Mr and Mrs M and explained that changes within its 
business meant that it no longer offered the type of loan they had. As such, it had sold their 
loan to Lender S. It confirmed that the security they provided for the loan would be 
transferred to Lender S name, but otherwise the loan would not be affected by the change in 
owner. 
On 18 June 2015 Mr M called Black Horse to raise a complaint about various issues. This 
included a complaint point about the loan having been transferred to Lender S without 
consultation. Black Horse responded on 30 July 2015 and said that it was able to transfer 
the loan under the terms and conditions, and wasnt required to consult with accountholders 
before doing so. It had done what it was required to do, as it had told Mr and Mrs M that the 
transfer had happened.
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs M raised a new complaint, which included various issues about 
what had happened at the time of the sale and the two complaint points covered in this 
decision. 
During the course of discussions with Black Horse in 2021, Mr M twice asked for a manager 
to call him. Black Horses contact notes show that these requests were made on 
23 September 2021 and 22 October 2021. The same contact notes show that members of 
Black Horses management team tried to call Mr M back on 21October 2021 and 
5 November 2021 respectively. The notes of these attempted calls recorded that while the 
phone initially rang, it then disconnected without being answered. 
Black Horse responded to the complaint points in its letters of 8 September 2021 and 
5 December 2021. In relation to the loan having been transferred to a different lender, it said 
that Mr and Mrs M had raised a complaint about that issue in June 2015. It also confirmed 
that the few remaining loans it had at the time were transferred because it no longer sold 
secured loans and couldnt support the small numbers it had left. In addition, it explained that 
it was allowed under the terms and conditions to transfer the loan to another lender. With 
regard to the failure of a manager to call Mr and Mrs M back about their concerns in 2021, 
Black Horse confirmed that it had tried to call on two occasions, but the calls had not been 
answered. It, however, apologised for having been unable to reach Mr and Mrs M to discuss 
their concerns.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with Black Horses replies and referred their complaint to us. 
When we told Black Horse about the referral, it said that it thought that the complaints about 
the events of 2006 and the transfer of the loan in 2015, fell outside our jurisdiction as the 
complaints had been raised too late.  
In light of Black Horses comments, I issued a decision on 10 March 2023 which set out my 
conclusions about our jurisdiction. I found that we could only consider the two complaint 
points detailed above in the complaint section.
In relation to the merits of those points, our investigator concluded that Black Horse had the 
right to transfer the loan under the terms and conditions. As such, he didnt uphold this part 
of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator and, when they were unable to persuaded 
him to change his conclusions, they asked that the complaint be escalated. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2023 in which I set out my conclusions about the 
merits of this complaint and my reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Mr and Mrs M have said during this complaint that Black Horse didnt tell them that it had 
sold their loan to Lender S, and when they called, they were told that there was nothing they 
could do about it. They have said that when they pressed the matter, they were then told that 
Black Horse had got rid of problem loans. However, it is clear from the complaint and 
correspondence in 2015 that Mr and Mrs M were informed that their loan had been 
transferred when it happened. 
I would also confirm that Black Horse was able to transfer the loan to a new lender under the 
terms and conditions of the loan. I have detailed above the relevant section of the terms and 
conditions that confirmed this.
Mr and Mrs M have said they have recently been told that the transfer only happened with 
problem loans, which theirs wasnt. However, Black Horse explained at the time of the 
transfer that it was happening because it had stopped offering that type of loan and was 
having difficulty supporting the small number that still existed. I have seen nothing that 
indicates that Black Horse considered Mr and Mrs Ms individual loan to be a problem or that 
was why the loan was transferred to the new lender. It appears to have happened for the 
reasons Black Horse said in 2015  a change to the profile of its business. 
In relation to Mr Ms requests for call backs, I can understand that he and Mrs M are 
disappointed that they didnt receive the calls they had asked for. However, it appears that 
Black Horse did attempt to call Mr M back, albeit with some delay before they happened. It is 
unfortunate that it only made one attempt each time, and those attempts werent fruitful, but I 
cant find that Black Horse ignored Mr Ms requests.
Black Horse didnt respond to the provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.Mr and Mrs M commented that to say they were disappointed with my conclusions was an 
understatement. Much of their further comments related to the matters I have previously 
explained dont fall within our jurisdiction, and so I wont detail them here. In relation to the 
complaint points that do fall within our remit, they repeated that Black Horse refused to get a 
manager to call Mr M back and that could not be denied. Mr and Mrs M also said that a court 
does not accept a letter as being received unless it is signed for  which appears to be in 
relation to the 2015 complaint correspondence I referred to in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs M believe that Black Horse lied to them when the loan was sold, but 
as I explained in my earlier decision setting out our jurisdiction, we cant consider the issues 
from the time of the sale. This does not mean that I have fallen for what Mr and Mrs M say 
are the lies that they believe Black Horse has told, or that I have found it didnt do anything 
wrong, it is simply the case that I cant consider parts of the complaint because of when 
those events took place. I know this is disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but if I were to 
consider a complaint that didnt fall within our jurisdiction, any findings I made would not be 
legally binding and, effectively, worthless. 
In regard to Mr Ms request for call backs from managers, I note that Mr and Mrs M still dont 
believe that Black Horse attempted to call Mr M when he asked it to. In light of this, I have 
again reviewed the contemporaneous records and I remain satisfied that Black Horse did 
attempt to call him, albeit unsuccessfully and only made one attempt each time. 
I have noted what Mr and Mrs M have said about letters and their receipt, but to have proof 
of receipt for all correspondence sent to a consumer would be an unreasonable requirement. 
As I have said, the letters explaining the reason for the transfer in 2015 were addressed 
correctly and there is no record of them being returned as undelivered. In addition, given that 
the explanation was contained in a letter in response to a complaint by Mr and Mrs M, I 
would have expected that, had they not received the response, they would have chased 
Black Horse about it. Again there is no evidence that this occurred. 
Although I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ms further comments in relation to the 
merits of this complaint, I have not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 June 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman