DRN-1355113
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with a faster payment instruction. Hes 
also unhappy with the service he received afterwards.
What happened
On 22 August 2019, at 19:41 pm, Mr C attempted to make an urgent online faster payment 
of just over £12000 from his Santander account to an account held by another individual 
elsewhere. Mr C said the recipients account was already set up as a payee and hed paid 
similar sums to that individual before without any issues. 
Mr C said he made the payment and received a successful payment notification from 
Santander. He took that to mean that his money had reached its destination. However, on 
checking with the intended recipient he was informed the funds hadnt credited their account. 
At 19:50 pm on 22 August 2019, Mr C contacted Santander to query the whereabouts of the 
money he had transferred. After completing security successfully Santander asked Mr C 
questions about the authenticity of his faster payment. And it told him it would complete his 
faster payment instruction by 9pm on 23 August 2019, which was the next working day.
Mr C was unhappy about this and raised a complaint with Santander. He told it the payment 
had been urgent and he felt Santander had discriminated against him because his spouse 
had made a similar payment on around 21 August 2019, which had been sent to the 
recipient immediately. Mr C also felt the time hed spent on the telephone completing 
security had been excessive. And he said staff he had dealt with had behaved 
unprofessionally when dealing with his complaint. 
Santander wrote to Mr C on 25 August 2019 with its final response to his complaint. It told 
him his payment hadnt reached the recipient immediately as it had been flagged for an 
additional security check with its fraud prevention system. And it said the money was 
released on 23 August 2019, which was within industry wide faster payment timescales. 
Overall, Santander didnt think it had made an error in how it had dealt with Mr Cs faster 
payment and it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with how Santander had dealt with his complaint or that it had issued its 
final response without speaking to him. So, he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it but, while they empathised with Mr C, they didnt uphold his 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably and they didnt think 
it needed to do anymore here. Mr C disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr C and Santander that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint. Its clear he feels Santander discriminated against him by delaying 
his faster payment. Hes told our service that his spouse made a similar payment, which 
successfully reached its recipient without delay. But, while I understand why Mr C may be 
keen for me to know about the experience his spouse had, this complaint is about how 
Santander dealt with his faster payment instruction.
As our investigator has explained this service is an informal dispute resolution service and 
whilst we consider law, rules and regulations in reviewing a case, we dont have the power to 
make a ruling on whether an individual has been discriminated against as it falls outside our 
jurisdiction. So, in line with our services approach, I wont be making a finding on this issue. 
Instead, I will focus on whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr 
C and his faster payment instruction.
The starting point here is that Santander should follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr C gave it instructions to make a faster payment of just 
over £12000 to an account held by another individual elsewhere. Hed transferred money to 
this account previously. And he wanted to send this money via the faster payment system 
because he wanted it to reach the recipients account the same day.
Santander captured Mr Cs faster payment instruction on its system at 19:41pm on 22 
August 2019. And Mr Cs account movements confirm that, while the funds initially debit his 
account they are credited back due to his payment being held for a fraud check.    
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may subject payments to a security check  as happened here. 
This is clearly set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account. And I cant fairly criticise 
Santander, or conclude it acted unfairly, in holding Mr Cs payment for a fraud check. 
Mr C feels Santander misled him because he saw a successful payment notification, which 
he took to mean that his money had reached its destination. But Santander said when Mr C 
made his faster payment request hed have only been shown confirmation that his payment 
was being processed. 
I can see our investigator has asked Mr C if hes able to provide any evidence of that 
notification. But he isnt able to as he didnt take a screenshot. I appreciate Mr C wouldnt 
necessarily have needed to take a screenshot at the time he made his faster payment. He 
wouldnt have known his payment would be delayed due to a fraud check. But, without 
having seen evidence that Mr C was shown a successful payment notification I cant fairly 
conclude Santander informed him his payment had been successful. 
Ive seen an example of the notification Santander told our service Mr C would have seen. 
And Im satisfied it isnt the same as a notification confirming the payment had been 
successful. It informed him that his payment was being processed. And so this message 
cant reasonably be said to have created an expectation in Mr Cs mind that his faster 
payment had been successful. I can understand how Mr C would have been concerned when he checked his other account 
and discovered his funds hadnt credited. I can see how worried he was because he 
contacted Santander within ten minutes of making his faster payment. 
Mr C is unhappy Santander didnt contact him first. But by the time Mr C called Santander it 
wouldnt have been able to complete the fraud checks it needed to make here. So, Im not 
persuaded Santander made an error in not notifying Mr C his payment had been held for a 
fraud check.
When Mr C spoke with Santander it told him his payment might not be processed until the 
following day. Fraud checks arent always able to be resolved quickly. And I think this 
demonstrates Santander was trying to manage Mr Cs expectations about the potential time 
scales involved in processing his payment. 
Its clear Mr C feels the amount of time he spent on the phone to Santander on 22 August 
2019 was excessive. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that Santander protracted 
that call. It had reason to suspect the payment request was fraudulent and it needed time to 
complete security with Mr C and satisfy itself regarding the authenticity of that payment. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded the length of this call was excessive. 
Mr C thinks Santander breached the terms and conditions of his account by delaying his 
faster payment. However, while these terms set out a payment timetable table, which states 
that money sent by will usually reach its destination immediately, they go on to state: 
a faster payment will normally reach the bank of the person you want to pay in the timescale 
set outprovided thatwe do not suspect fraudulent activity on your account. (There may 
be a delay in processing the payment while fraud prevention checks take place)
So, Santander doesnt guarantee that a faster payment will credit the receiving account 
immediately.
All financial institutions in the UK must abide by the Payment Services Directive (PSD). So 
Ive thought about whether Santander adhered to this directive. 
The PSD states that any payments made by mobile, internet or phone banking must arrive 
by the end of the following business day at the latest. Ive seen evidence that Mr Cs faster 
payment was successfully completed on 23 August 2019. This was one business day after 
Mr C instructed Santander to make a faster payment on his behalf. So, Im satisfied 
Santander followed the relevant rules and processed Mr Cs faster payment in line with the 
PSD notwithstanding the fraud check it had triggered.
Finally, Mr C has raised concerns that it was unfair for Santander to issue its final response 
to his complaint without speaking with him first. I can see its taken his comments into 
consideration since he asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. I say this 
because Santander has offered to make a goodwill payment to Mr C in the sum of £50 to 
reflect the service he experienced.
I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy with how Santander handled his complaint. However, our 
service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling because its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. 
So, even if I did think Santander hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of Mr Cs concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I 
comment any further on this issue. Accordingly, if Mr C would like to accept the £50 
Santander has offered to resolve his complaint he should contact it directly to do so.I realise Mr C will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve their dispute with Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr C any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr C to decide whether 
he wishes to approach Santander UK Plc to accept the £50 it offered to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman