DRN-4413584
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his savings accounts without notifying him.
What happened
Mr L held an online saver and an instant access savings account with HSBC. On 21 March 
2019, HSBC say they sent Mr L letters about each account through their online banking 
system. These letters explained that Mr Ls accounts were inactive as there was no money 
in them and there were no transactions in the accounts for over two years. They explained 
that theyll close the accounts unless Mr L starts to use them before 2 June 2019. To keep 
the accounts active and open, Mr L was asked to simply credit the accounts.
Earlier this year, Mr L says he got in touch with HSBC to enquire about the interest rates on 
his accounts. He was informed that the accounts were closed in 2019. Unhappy with this, Mr 
L raised a complaint. He wanted HSBC to explain the reasons for why his accounts were 
closed. 
HSBC explained that they issued letters via their online banking system letting Mr L know 
that theyd close the accounts if he didnt use them by 2 June 2019. They said that when 
they sent these letters to Mr Ls online banking, they also sent him emails to let him know 
that he had important documents to view. 
Mr L said that he didnt receive any messages from HSBC notifying him about their intention 
to close his accounts. He explained there was a chance that their messages mightve been 
classified as junk by his email provider. And since he wasnt expecting HSBC to send him 
emails about his accounts, he didnt know that their messages may have gone into the junk 
folder. 
HSBC explained that Mr L had accessed his online banking in January 2017 and agreed to 
have letters to be sent to him digitally by email and secure message. They stated that it was 
Mr Ls responsibility to maintain and check his accounts on a regular basis and confirmed 
theyd followed the correct process. 
They told Mr L that if a customer doesnt log on to their online banking in a six-month period, 
theyd automatically send statements in the post. They said Mr Ls 2018 and 2019 
statements were sent by post, as well as being available online. They explained they 
couldnt reopen his accounts and if he would like a new savings account with them, Mr L 
would need to make a new application.
Mr L said that he had a copy of his 2017 bank statements and a letter in 2018 about the 
change in interest rate. He confirmed he didnt receive his 2018 and 2019 bank statements 
in the post. He also questioned why the letters about his accounts being closed werent sent 
by post, even though there was no activity in the account and online banking.
HSBC explained that due to the time thats passed, they werent able to establish how Mr L 
had requested to receive is statements but reiterated that they posted Mr Ls statements in 
2018 and 2019. They confirmed again that the letters sent to Mr L advising him that his 
accounts would be closed was sent to his online banking along with emails notifying him that 
theyd done that. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response and that they didnt do everything possible to communicate 
with him regarding his accounts being closed, Mr L referred the matter to our service. Mr L 
explained these accounts were his oldest and now his credit history starts from 2011 instead 
of 2005. He also believes there may have been a financial impact as he was considering 
other financial products and hes spent around five hours dealing with this matter. To put 
things right, hes asked for his accounts to be reinstated, his credit file amended and to be 
compensated.
Our investigator said that HSBC had the right to close any account, as long as they follow 
the terms and conditions. He didnt think HSBC could be held responsible if Mr L didnt get 
the notifications from them, informing him that his accounts would be closed. He felt HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong, so he didnt recommend them to reopen the accounts or pay 
compensation.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He explained that 
HSBC told him that when they dont hear from a customer after a set period of time, they 
start corresponding by post. He believes that by HSBCs own policies, they shouldve sent 
him letters by post rather than email, as they hadnt heard from him in two years. He 
reiterated that HSBC didnt contact him by post or email, and theyve not been able to 
provide our service evidence to show they had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The personal banking terms and conditions and charges explains how HSBC can contact Mr 
L. It states that if Mr L was registered for mobile or online banking, they may contact him by 
using My Messages and My documents in online banking, and theyll let him know when 
they put something new in My documents. 
Due to the time thats passed, HSBC have limited system information. So, they havent been 
able to provide evidence to show that the letters of March 2019 were sent via online banking. 
They also havent been able to show when and how Mr L signed up to receiving 
correspondence digitally. Given that the accounts were closed in June 2019, I dont think this 
is unreasonable.
Ive looked at the transaction history in 2017. This shows that Mr L credited his instant 
access saver with £250 on 23 February 2017 from an external account. He then transferred 
£125 to his online saver. A month later, he transferred the balance of his online saver back 
to his instant access saver and then withdrew the rest of his balance by transferring it to his 
external account.
This indicates that Mr L was registered for online banking. And as explained above, since he 
was registered for online banking, HSBC were within their rights to choose to communicate 
with him via My messages and My documents in online banking.
HSBC have explained their policy of sending postal bank statements if their customer 
doesnt log on to their online banking for a six-month period. However, this doesnt appear to 
apply to all correspondence, and I can see HSBC told Mr H this was the case with bank statements as the options on selecting digital correspondence was separate for statements 
and other documents. 
Although I appreciate it wouldve been useful if the account closure letters of March 2019 
were also sent via post, I dont think HSBC were obligated to do so as they are entitled to 
communicate with Mr L regarding his accounts digitally, as per the terms and conditions.
HSBC can decide to end an agreement and close an account under the terms and 
conditions, providing they give at least two months notice. I can see their letters of 21 March 
2019 gave Mr L more than two months notice of their intention to close the account, unless 
he made a transaction. So, I think Mr L has been treated fairly.
Mr L says he didnt receive the letters from HSBC, but HSBC maintain they sent it to Mr L via 
online banking. I think its more likely that HSBC sent the letters, as they appear to be 
templates generated by their systems. Its quite possible as Mr L has suggested that the 
emails notifying him that there were documents for him to view were redirected to his junk 
mailbox. 
There are other possibilities too. For example, there was a system error which meant that 
HSBCs emails werent sent, or Mr L simply missed them amongst other emails etc. In the 
absence of system notes to show the letters were sent, I cant say for certain that they were, 
but this doesnt mean HSBC didnt send them.
HSBC also dont have a record of how the statements in 2018 and 2019 were sent to Mr L. 
Theyve confirmed that these wouldve been made available to him online as well as sent in 
the post, as he hadnt logged on to his online banking for more than six months. Mr L says 
he didnt receive them. Unfortunately, as theres no system notes available, I cant say with 
completely certainty as to whether or not the statements were sent by post. But I think its 
likely they wouldve been available online for Mr L to view.
In any event, even if I found HSBC had made mistakes here, I dont think this has had a 
significant impact on Mr L. I say this because Mr L didnt enquire about his accounts for 
several years after they were closed. Both of his accounts were inactive and didnt have any 
transactions for over two years at the time of closure. The transactions Mr L made in 
February and March 2017 were only prompted as a result of similar account notices HSBC 
sent to Mr L in January 2017 with their intention to close his accounts as he hadnt used 
them in two years at that point. 
There was also a nil balance in both accounts at the time of the account closures. So, Mr L 
hasnt been prevented from using his funds. Although Mr L says he didnt receive the postal 
statements, he couldve chased HSBC to send him statements or logged on to his online 
banking at any time to review his accounts before they were closed  but he most likely 
didnt take these steps as there were no transactions for him to review.
Mr L has indicated that the account closures have affected his credit history and ability to 
obtain other financial products. However, savings accounts arent reported on credit files, so 
I dont think the closure of these accounts wouldve impacted him. I cant see any 
substantive reasons for why Mr L couldnt open a new savings account at minimal 
inconvenience to him, which HSBC had suggested he could do as they arent able to reopen 
his accounts.
HSBC have apologised for the inconvenience caused to Mr L. Under the circumstances, Im 
satisfied this is a fair resolution to this complaint and I wont be asking them to do anything 
else.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman