DRN-3513218
The complaint
Miss N complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has made an unfair claim decision in relation to 
a claim made on her buildings insurance. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss N and Allianz and I dont intend 
to set this all out in detail. But it is important to explain the policy that Miss N has the benefit 
of is a block policy. She owns a leasehold property with a block insurance taken out by the 
managing agent. The managing agent didnt consent to this service considering the 
complaint but failed to provide a satisfactory reason for this lack of consent.
Miss N is, in her own right, an eligible complainant as a beneficiary of the policy and while 
the consent of the policy holder is always sought, this service can consider the complaint in 
the absence of this. 
Miss N lets her flat out to tenants and in April 2021 a leak in the bathroom was reported from 
the extractor fan. This had originally been reported to the managing agent but no assistance 
was provided.
Allianz investigated the claim over a number of months with different inspections taking 
place. It issued a final response on the matter in January 2022 repudiating the claim.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She set out in some detail the different inspections 
that took place at the property with a view to identifying the leak. This included:
April 2021, the managing agent sourced a plumber. He thought the leak was coming 
from the flat above when the toilet was flushed. On a return visit the tenants said the 
water had stopped and he said the leak had been fixed.
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to survey the property and establish the cause of 
the leak. They felt the extractor fan vent pipe was causing the leak with a build up of 
condensation as the fan wasnt expelling the moisture as it should. It was felt that the 
issue was either the result of faulty workmanship or a defect with the fan. Either way, 
despite the policy being an all risk policy, this wouldnt be covered under the 
insurance. 
In October 2021 further issues were reported and an electrician attended the 
property. He spoke about issues with the extractor fan and that he believed it and 
the lights in the ceiling would need replacing once the leak was fixed. He thought the 
leak could be coming from the flat above.
In late October 2021, a different loss adjuster was appointed by Allianz and it 
concluded that there was no sign of a leak from the property above. They felt the 
alterations made were off a poor standard and they were of the opinion that the 
water in the fan was due to a lack of ventilation.
In January 2022, a leak detection report was paid for by Miss N as she still believed 
the damage should be covered under her policy. Dye testing was completed in the 
bathroom of the property above as well as an inspection of the radiators when in 
use. No leak could be identified but water was noted as running along the inside of 
the extractor pipe. The fan had been disconnected since October 2021 and it was 
thought that defects in the roof could be allowing water ingress. But it was also 
thought the length of the extractor pipe was not allowing moisture to disperse 
effectively from the vent.
Overall, when considering the above, our investigator didnt think Allianz had acted unfairly 
when declining the claim. Although there had been some conflicting information provided, a 
consistent theme throughout the inspections and reports were issues with the extractor fan. 
She didnt think relying on this as the cause of damage was unreasonable and she didnt 
think Allianz needed to do anything else in response to the claim.
Miss N didnt think it was fair that Allianz didnt undertake a full trace and access for the leak 
sooner. It wasnt until she appointed the company in January 2022 that the cause of damage 
was identified and it could have been rectified much sooner had Allianz done this. As a result 
shes incurred the cost of the survey and lost rent after needing to reduce the monthly 
amount as a result of the ongoing damage to the bathroom. She asked that this be 
considered with the final decision.
Because Miss N didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for very much the same reasons as our 
investigator. 
When there is conflicting information it is my role to decide what I think, on balance is more 
likely. And what is relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
There has been some conflicting information provided on this complaint in relation to the 
damage to Miss Ns flat and whether this was coming from the flat above or the extractor 
fan. But there has been a consistent theme within the reports that have considered the 
extractor fan fitted within the bathroom for Miss Ns flat where water damage has been 
identified. 
As our investigator has said, there is an expectation on an insured to demonstrate they have 
a valid claim under their policy and Miss N has gone to lengths to do this with her own expert 
report. But this has, in my mind, only confirmed what was first set out by Allianz and its loss 
adjusters report when the claim was first raised. In May 2021, the report provided to Allianz 
by its loss adjuster said the following:
It is considered by the RA that the extractor fan in the bathroom to Flat XXX was insufficient 
to remove the condensation from the pipe to the roof and that it resulted in condensation 
forming and coming back down the pipe through the extractor. 
As Ive said, there has been a consistent theme throughout the other reports provided that 
the extractor fan and its set up was not fit for purpose and it is this which has resulted in the 
claim being declined. With this being identified a month after the claim was raised, I dont think it would be fair to say Allianz did anything wrong or is liable for any additional costs 
later incurred by Miss N.
I know Miss N will be disappointed by this outcome but insurance isnt designed to cover all 
eventualities. It can only cover what is detailed within the policy and providing the business 
applies this, it Will have acted fairly.  Miss Ns policy, like most, excludes damage as a result 
of faulty workmanship or latent defects and with this in mind, I think it has acted fairly when 
considering this claim.
Overall, I see no reason to ask Allianz to reconsider Miss Ns claim. I think it has helped 
throughout when reopening the claim some months after it initially declined it and Ive not 
seen anything which shows this or the later decision to maintain this position is unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman