DRN-4443525
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss H was approved for a Marbles credit card in June 2021, and then two credit limit 
increases as follows:
Date Credit Limit
20 Jun 2021 £900
12 Apr 2022 £1,900
12 Aug 2022 £2,650
Miss Hs representative says it has reviewed her credit file from the time of the lending and is 
not satisfied that Marbles carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to provide her 
with credit. It says the high interest rates have caused Miss H stress and ill-health.
Marbles said it asked Miss H about her income and checked her credit file at the time of the 
application. It says Miss H met its acceptance criteria and she was approved for a credit card 
with a £900 limit. Marbles says that, following reviews of her account, Miss H was offered 
two credit limit increases. It adds that Miss H was given 40 days notice of the amendments 
and could have opted out at that stage.
However, Marbles acknowledged that Miss H made a cash transaction, and her external 
debt had increased significantly, when the final credit limit increase was applied. Therefore, it 
offered to refund all charges and interest on any balance over £1,900.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld from the account opening. 
He wasnt satisfied that the checks went far enough and that proportionate checks were 
likely to have found the lending was unaffordable. He said that Marbles should rework the 
account to remove interest and fees and add 8% interest on credit balances. He added that 
adverse information should be removed from Miss Hs credit file once the balance was zero.
Marbles responded to say, in summary, that it believes its offer is fair based on the 
information it had at the time. It adds that Miss H didnt get in contact about financial 
difficulties until May 2023 following her reduced income due to maternity leave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Hs case, Ive considered the following:
Did Marbles complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Hs application and credit limits to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Marbles make fair lending decisions?
Did Marbles act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Account Opening
When Miss H applied for the Marbles card, Ive seen evidence to show it checked her credit 
file and asked her about her income and personal circumstances. These checks showed:
A declared income of £15,000 per year;
Miss H was single, employed and living in rented accommodation;
She had four credit accounts with unsecured debt of £2,500;
Two defaulted accounts, totalling £900, from over three years earlier.
Based on the above Im not satisfied that Marbles checks went far enough because:
A credit card is a long-term, open-ended credit facility and Marbles needed to ensure 
it was sustainably affordable;
I cant see that Marbles verified Miss Hs declared employment or income;
There was no information on Miss Hs living expenses, including rent;
So, Ive had a look at Miss Hs bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for 
what proportionate checks are likely to have shown:
Miss Hs income was primarily from benefits and was around £2,000 per month;
oShe didnt appear to have received any employment income since April 2021;
oThis included two other regular amounts each month totalling £529;
Her rent and bills came to around £850 per month;
She was spending at least £170 per month on television and mobile phones;
Childcare costs were around £250 per month;
Online learning cost just over £100 per month;
Food and petrol was costing Miss H at least £700 each month;
Car insurance and payments to a savings club totalled £80;
She was paying about £80 per month on overdraft interest and a credit card.
This meant Miss H was already over-committed by £200 each month which had caused her 
overdraft to increase by over £1,000 since February 2021. As a result, she was also having 
multiple direct debits returned unpaid.So, although I accept the card was approved with a modest credit limit, I find Miss H was 
already struggling financially and further lending was unsustainable for her.
In summary, I find Marbles was irresponsible to have approved Miss Hs application, 
although I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied:
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss H 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Marbles should also remove all 
adverse information regarding the account from Miss Hs credit file;
oOr, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Marbles should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss H for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss H has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marbles to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman