DRN-4042799
The complaint and what happened
Mr T is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled his chargeback 
request. He made seven debit card payments totalling £500 to an online betting site between 
May and June 2022. The funds were deposited but his betting account was subsequently 
suspended, leaving him unable to make withdrawals. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T says the betting site acted fraudulently. But from what hes told us, it seems the 
restrictions were placed on his betting account as he wasnt eligible to use the sites 
platform due to previous concerns relating to its sister site. That suggests a possible 
breach of terms and conditions; it isnt something that would fall under the definition 
of fraud or scam. I recognise Mr Ts feelings about the sites actions, specifically that 
it shouldnt have accepted the funds in the first instance. But I can only consider the 
acts and omissions of his bank in respect to the disputed transactions; its not within 
my remit to consider his concerns about the betting site.
As Im not persuaded that Mr T was scammed, Barclays duty of care to protect its 
customers from financial harm due to fraud isnt triggered here. So, the only recourse 
available to Mr T is chargeback. Its a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme 
operator (such as Visa) to process settlement disputes between the card issuer 
(Barclays) and the merchant (the betting site Mr T made the payments to).
Its important to note that chargeback is not a legal right that the cardholder has  the 
card issuer doesnt have to attempt a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice 
to try if the card issuer has a good reason to. Chargebacks are decided based on the 
card schemes rules, not the relative merits of the dispute between the cardholder 
and the merchant. And, when we consider complaints about chargebacks, were only 
looking at the actions of the card issuer, not the fairness of the card schemes rules.
Barclays did raise a chargeback for all the disputed transactions under the reason 
code goods/services not received, as agreed with Mr T. It was defended as the 
betting site responded and provided evidence that the amounts were successfully 
loaded on to Mr Ts betting account. The evidence also showed that his account 
balance at the time of responding to the chargeback was £0.19, indicating that Mr T 
had been able to utilise the funds hed loaded. In other words, the merchant was able 
to demonstrate that the service requested (i.e., loading of funds on to Mr Ts account 
to facilitate betting) had been provided.
Barclays states that it should have declined Mr Ts chargeback claim at that point and 
informed him accordingly, instead of sending what it accepts was a confusing letter. 
Given the merchants evidence, I agree that there was little prospect of success had 
Barclays continued pursuing the chargeback. So, it would have been reasonable for 
it to have declined Mr Ts claim at that time. But it continued corresponding with him 
further, including sending Mr T a letter which provided an incorrect reason for 
declining his claim. This only added to his confusion and frustration with how the 
claim was being handled by Barclays. I can see he spent a lot of time on the phone 
to the bank in trying to understand what was happening.  
To recognise these mistakes, Barclays has paid £75 compensation. I know Mr T 
feels very strongly about the service failures and hed like Barclays to increase its 
compensation to £350. Ive carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr T experienced due to Barclays 
mistakes. Ive also kept in mind that the outcome regarding the chargeback would 
have remained the same had things gone the way they should have in the first 
instance. Having done so, I find that the compensation amount that Barclays has 
already paid in recognition of its errors is fair. That means I wont be asking it to 
increase it.
In summary, I recognise that Mr S will likely be disappointed with this outcome. Although I 
understand his frustration, for the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
fairly resolved it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman