DRN-2039015
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. says she doesnt have cover for her daughters pre-existing condition 
under her travel insurance policy, and that it accused her of fabricating a document.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs G took out the policy online. Mapfre thinks that when Mrs G obtained a quote, she 
included her daughters pre-existing condition. However, when she went ahead with the 
policy, Mrs G removed her daughters condition and only kept one of her own conditions on 
there. 
This is supported by the medical screening information on the insurance certificate. This 
shows that the policy provided cover for one of Mrs Gs named conditions, and that her 
daughter didnt have any declared medical conditions. I cant be sure whether Mrs G 
received this document, though Mapfre also points out that the price of the policy would have 
been more expensive if the policy had also covered her daughters condition.
Whilst I accept that the insurance certificate sent to Mrs G was confusing, it didnt actually 
confirm which conditions were covered for her and her daughter. It has since transpired that 
it was sent to her in error. Based on the correct insurance certificate and the policy premium, 
Im satisfied that Mapfre has shown, on balance, that Mrs G didnt take out cover for her 
daughters condition.
Mapfre has given Mrs G an initial claims decision on her cancellation claim. It thinks the 
claim likely isnt payable because the holiday was cancelled due to her daughters pre-
existing condition, however, it doesnt have full details about her daughters diagnosis or any 
treatment/investigations she was having when the policy was taken out. Its therefore offered 
to obtain further information from Mrs Gs daughters GP so that it can consider the matter 
further and give a final claims decision. I think this is appropriate. 
Mapfre accused Mrs G of fabricating a document to assist her claim. After further 
investigation, it then accepted that she didnt do so. Mapfre apologised for this and offered 
Mrs G £300 compensation by way of apology. 
Mapfres accusation was unacceptable and undoubtedly caused Mrs G unnecessary worry 
and upset. However, I think Mapfre has put matters right by apologising and has offered an 
appropriate amount of compensation. It has also taken steps so the same situation doesnt 
happen again, as Id expect it to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has offered Mrs G appropriate 
compensation for its error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman