DRN-4167799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained about the service they received from AXA Insurance UK Plc 
when making a claim for medical assistance under her travel insurance policy. 
For simplicity I will just refer to AXA, but this also includes its agents. Likewise I will just refer 
to Mrs I, although this claim was made under a joint policy and Mrs I has been represented 
by Mr I.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. In summary Mr and Mrs I are 
unhappy with the support Mrs I received from AXA with regard to authorising surgery 
following an accident abroad. She complains that there was a delay in authorising surgery. 
Mrs I felt abandoned by the lack of support and assistance.
AXA recognised that there had been insufficient contact and offered £150 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the offer was increased. Mr and Mrs I appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive reviewed the complete 
file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs I will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs I had an accident whilst on holiday on 27 September 2022. She required hospital 
treatment and surgery was booked in for her on 30 September 2022. Mr I notified 
AXA of the accident two days later and advised surgery would be the following day. 
AXA said that it needed medical information from the treating hospital before it could 
authorise treatment. I find that this was fair and reasonable in order to assess the 
claim. It did contact the hospital for the information and continued to chase as 
information was outstanding. I note that AXA was proactive in this regard.
AXA recognises that it didnt update Mrs I as regularly as it could have and offered 
compensation. I think that was fair. It would have been a worrying time for both Mr 
and Mrs I and I can understand why they were keen to be updated, particularly when 
Mrs I hadnt received confirmation that the claim would be met prior to her surgery. 
Although treatment took place three days after the accident, the final authorisation 
wasnt communicated until Mrs I had arrived home  four days after her treatment. In 
these circumstances I find that compensation is merited. 
Mr and Mrs I feel that the compensation of £150 is inadequate  they note that it 
barely covers the cost of one years annual premium. However, this service looks at 
the impact on the customer and the compensation offered is for non-financial loss. 
Given the timescales here and taking into account that the treatment Mrs I needed 
wasnt delayed, Im satisfied that the sum offered for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered is fair.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I find that 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs I £150, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman