DRN-3295152
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Leeds Building Society (Leeds) cant locate her account. She would 
like to withdraw the balance showing in her passbook , with interest added.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions.:-
I do appreciate Mrs Js frustration that she recently  found a Leeds passbook 
showing a balance, but Leeds cant locate the account  to pay the balance to her. 
Unfortunately,  Leeds records only  go back to 2002  businesses dont have to keep 
records forever, so I am not surprised it doesnt have information back to the time 
Mrs J last had a record of her account which was in 2000
I am persuaded Leeds  has done a thorough search of both its active and dormant 
accounts without success. It has explained that had the account still been  open in 
2002 it would have a record of it even if it had since been closed.
I appreciate Mrs J still has a passbook showing a balance but that doesnt 
necessarily mean the account it still open. Withdrawals dont always need a 
passbook. Its unfortunate that Mrs J has only recently found the passbook .As a 
considerable time has passed since the account was used, I think its likely the 
account was closed between 2000 and 2002. 
I dont feel the passbook in itself is sufficient proof the account is still open, and I 
believe Leeds has done all it can to locate the account but hasnt been able to do so, 
so  I dont think I can reasonably ask Leeds to refund the money still showing in the 
passbook as Mrs J would like 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman