DRN-2459653
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H have complained about a bridging loan they took out in April 2019 with 
Social Money Limited (trading as The BridgeCrowd).
We have two separate complaints about this loan, this one follows on from after the loan 
term ended in April 2020. For ease I will quote the complaint points directly from an email 
Ms H and Mr H sent us. I quote verbatim:
My complaints:
1. Their claim that this an unregulated deal, is actually fraud. They knew why we were 
taking the loan, we told them that we were going to cover the arrears, they asked us 
which properties and we did tell them which properties.
But even if we would not have told them, they would've know, because they had that 
the credit search, They could see on the credit search which properties were in 
arrears.
2. Interest was taken in advance, so we did not have this money. So if we pay back 
£94,000, that means that we would be paying the interest twice [an investigator at 
this service] was saying that we should only payback £73,000, and not £94000
3. They waited on purpose, for the loan to expire in order to put heavy default fees, plus 
extortionate interest, Originally interest was around 1.49%, they jumped it to 3%.
Ms H and Mr H say they want the action that was taken at the end of 2020 to instruct Law of 
Property Act (LPA) Receivers to be reversed. They also say, again I quote verbatim:
I also claim, that since [a member of staff at Social Money] entered into agreement with 
me, that we can continue the loan provided we pay 3% per month, then he agreed that I 
will pay £1500 pm, instead of £3000, he agreed to differ the 3%.
He originally agreed that we can cary on for a year, then changed the arrangement to 
6 months. My claim is that since he entered into arrangement/agreement with me, than 
that cancells the default, and makes the default unjustifiable , and also the 3% 
unjustifiable, because this is a default rate, and anyway, this is what loan sharks do.
What happened
Ms H and Mr H took out a bridging loan on 12 April 2019 with Social Money. The loan was 
secured as a second charge against a buy-to-let (BTL) investment property they owned.
The bridging loan facility was £94,000, which was made up of:
£73,324 net release
£2,820 arrangement fee
£350 administration fee
£1,150 loan management fee
£16,356 retained interest.
In addition Ms H and Mr H had to pay Social Moneys legal fees of £1,540 plus VAT and 
disbursements, and their own legal costs.
The loan was set up with a maximum term of 12 months.
When the loan term ended on 12 April 2020 Ms H and Mr H hadnt repaid it, so the loan was 
classed as being in default under the terms of the loan agreement.
Social Money wrote to Ms H and Mr H on 21 April 2020 to say the loan was in default. The 
letter said:
Interest is now running at the default rate of 3% per months and compounded 
monthly
A default fee of 6% is charged every 6 months that the loan is not repaid.
Under the terms of the loan agreement, we may appoint LPA Receivers to recover 
the loan money.
We understand your position and we do want to help you. Depending on your 
circumstances, we may be able to extend your loan and or waiver the default 
fees. Please get in contact with us at the earliest opportunity if you would like us to 
consider this. If we do offer you a loan extension, then you must sign and 
complete all the paperwork within 3 weeks of the date of this letter. If you do 
not, then LPA receivers will be instructed.
Please get in touch with us at the earliest opportunity to discuss your Options. 
We are here to help as much as possible.
Social Money sent an email to Ms H on 3 August 2020 in which it said:
We discussed a proposal whereby you would service the loan for 6 months at a rate 
of £1500 per month with payments commencing in September 2020. We would defer 
payment of the default fee and the difference between the default interest payments 
and the £1500 paid until the final redemption on or before 12 March 2021. The 
redemption statement below shows how your payments would be applied and the 
resultant redemption sum as at 12 Feb 2021.
Ms H and Mr H then made the following payments to the loan:
£1,500 on 11 August 2020
£1,500 on 7 September 2020
£24,500 on 21 September 2020
£25,000 22 September 2020
£5,500 on 24 September 2020
£15,000 on 24 September 2020.On 5 October 2020 Social Money wrote to Ms H and Mr H to say the amount outstanding 
was currently £49,287.02. It said if the money wasnt repaid then further action would be 
taken, with a list of the actions it could take. The same day, it appointed LPA receivers. 
Social Money says as Ms H and Mr H werent co-operating with the LPA receivers then it 
would be looking to take legal action to take possession of the property.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. Ms H and Mr H didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has expressed a desire for contact from me to discuss the complaint. This would only 
be necessary if I considered I needed more information; that is if the submissions already 
made were at all unclear. This wouldnt provide either of the parties to a complaint with the 
opportunity to ask questions, nor would it be a dialogue with me. This would be for my 
benefit, if there was anything at all in the paperwork which couldnt be clarified through the 
investigator. Having reviewed the case file, I consider that all of the material issues are 
clearly and comprehensively covered. For that reason Im satisfied that I can fairly decide the 
case without a dialogue with Ms H and/or Mr H.
Is the loan regulated?
Ms H has said she used part of the money to repay mortgage arrears on her residential 
property, to try to override the fact she and Mr R signed a clear declaration that they were 
going to use the money for business purposes, and the warnings about the contract being 
unregulated due to that. But shes overlooked something else.
 
What are known as limited payment second charge bridging loans arent regulated. The 
limited payment refers to the fact the consumer has to make no more than four payments 
under the contract (which was the case here), and the paperwork shows this was a second 
charge as it ranked behind the charge another lender already held on the BTL property in 
question. 
So putting aside all the other arguments, this could never have been a regulated mortgage 
contract because it was a limited payment second charge bridging loan which had been 
secured against Ms H and Mr Hs BTL property and these are exempt from regulation 
irrespective of the purpose of the funds.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
was interest charged twice?
The simple answer to this is that no, it wasnt charged twice.
Ms H has said, I quote verbatim:
since I already paid them the interest, than shouldn't I pay back the loan amount 
minus the interest - because I have already paid it ? So should i pay back 94k or 73k 
-which what I got after the interest ?The loan amount was £94,000, they took the interest in advance, £16,356, we got 
only £73,324, that means that if we pay back £94000, we will be paying the interest 
again.
But what Ms H is missing here is that (ignoring the payments she made after the loan had 
defaulted that I listed in the background section) she didnt pay Social Money the interest. 
Social Money sent £73,324 to Ms H and Mr Hs solicitor when the loan was drawn down in 
April 2019. Ms H and Mr H made no payments to Social Money within the twelve-month 
term, so in April 2020 Ms H and Mr H owed Social Money £94,000. That is the amount they 
borrowed (£73,324), plus the fees (£4,320) and interest (£16,356). If Ms H and Mr H then 
only repaid £73,324 then they would have borrowed that money interest-free (and without 
the payment of any fees) for the twelve months they were supposed to have it for. 
Ms H and Mr H hadnt already paid them the interest nor had Social Money taken the 
interest in advance. The contract set out the interest that would be due which, including the 
fees, took the total amount Ms H and Mr H would have to repay in April 2020 to £94,000. But 
it cant be said that Ms H and Mr H had already paid Social Money the interest unless Ms H 
and Mr H made a £16,356 payment to Social Money before - or at the time - they took out 
the contract.
Theres no basis upon which Ms H and Mr H could make no payments within the 
twelve-month term and then only have to pay Social Money £73,324 back.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
The loan expiry
Whilst I understand the points Ms H and Mr H have made, put simply Social Money didnt 
have to send them a reminder of the end date of the loan. The loan contract Ms H and Mr H 
entered into the year before explained that it was for a maximum of twelve months, and what 
would happen if the debt wasnt repaid at that time. It was Ms H and Mr Hs responsibility to 
repay the loan when it fell due, not Social Moneys responsibility to remind them of that fact. 
In any event it seems irrelevant that Social Money didnt remind them of the deadline when 
the loan was coming to an end, as even after they were told eight days after the loan end 
date  that is on 21 April 2020  that theyd missed the deadline they still didnt repay the 
loan. So if a warning had been given in the weeks running up to the loan expiry date it 
seems most likely it wouldnt have been repaid anyway, otherwise it makes no sense why 
Ms H and Mr H didnt repay the loan the week after it expired when they were told of that 
fact. Indeed, the last update we had was in November 2020 and at that point the loan still 
hadnt been repaid in full.
For any loan that isnt repaid on time there is a risk to a lender that it wont get back all of the 
money it is due, so it isnt in a lenders interests generally for a loan to default in that way 
even if it is charging a higher default rate of interest. Im sure Social Money would much 
rather its customers paid back the money theyd borrowed in full and on time, as that would 
make it easier for it to run its business efficiently, knowing what money it will be receiving 
and when so it can arrange to either re-lend that money out to another consumer, or to 
return the funds to its investors.The interest that would be charged on the loan once it defaulted was set out in the contract 
that Ms H and Mr H entered into. That said:
If the Borrower failed to pay any sum on its due date for payment hereunder he shall pay 
interest on such sum from the due date up to the date of actual payment (as well after as 
before judgment) at the Default Rate.
The Default Rate is stated as 3.00% per month calculated on a day-to-day basis.
The fee that would be charged on the loan once it defaulted was also set out in the contract 
that Ms H and Mr H entered into. That said:
If the Loan Amount is not paid in full on the Loan Repayment Date a fee of 6% of the 
Loan Amount shall be payable to the Lender for each period of 6 calendar months or part 
thereof while the Loan Amount (or any part of it) is outstanding.
The Loan Repayment Date is stated as the date 12 calendar months from the date on which 
the Loan is drawndown.
In terms of the legal and other expenses, the contract that Ms H and Mr H entered into said:
The Borrower shall, from time to time on demand of the Lender, forthwith reimburse the 
Lender for all costs, expenses, fees and other amounts incurred in or in connection with 
the preservation and/or enforcement of any of the rights of the Lender under this 
Agreement or the Security Document.
Ms H has said in an email to Social Money, I quote verbatim:
Following consultation meeting I had yesterday, with my solicitor and a barrister, I was 
told something that you probably know : that you can charge 3% default interest, but you 
cannot charge default fees on top of that, Because this is a punishment and is not 
acceptable by law. There are quite a few precedences. 
And you probably know that if I make this public you will get an avalanche of customers 
suing you for the default fees that they have been charged. They do not know about it, so 
they just paid it. 
One Example:
In Greenlands Trading Ltd v Pontearso [2019] EWHC 278 (Ch), Nugee J, found that a 
secured a six month bridging loan with rate of interest of 1.45% per month (i.e. 17.4% per 
annum), with a £1,995 default administration fee and 3% per month default interest fee 
rate to be paid on default, had an unfair default administration fee. 
A default administration fee is. 
So please let me know what your position is, and wether you are willing to drop the 
default fees, which are £5640 twice
Ive considered this point very carefully, along with the particular case Ms H has made 
reference to. A couple of points are immediately apparent here. The first is that the loan 
considered in court was residential, whereas this is secured on an investment property. It 
was also accepted that there is no precise or universal test here, and each case should be 
decided on the courts judgement of the relevant facts of that particular case.
In any event the test we use isnt necessarily the same as that which is used in court. Whilst 
having mind for the law where relevant, we instead consider what is fair and reasonable. As 
were independent that means what is fair and reasonable for the business as well as what is fair and reasonable for the consumer. What I look at is what was set out in the contract that 
was entered into and whether that was explained in a readily understandable manner. And 
having considered everything Im satisfied it was.
It may be a court would reach a different decision, but Im not bound by second guessing 
what a court may or may not do. If Ms H and Mr H feel their arguments would be accepted 
by a court then theyre free to pursue that course of action. I would however urge them to 
take independent professional legal advice first.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
The receivers
The right to appoint LPA receivers is also set out in the contract Ms H and Mr H entered into:
At any time after the Lenders power of sale has become exercisable, the Lender 
may appoint one or more than one Receiver in respect of the Property
The Lender will not be responsible for any misconduct, negligence or default of the 
Receiver.
The contract also sets out the powers of the Receiver. I wont list those here but Ms H and 
Mr H can review that in their contract if they wish to remind themselves of those clauses.
Social Money had the right to appoint an LPA Receiver under the contract and there are no 
grounds for me to interfere with that.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
The £1,500 payment arrangement
Ms H has said, I quote verbatim:
I also claim, that since [a member of staff at Social Money] entered into agreement with 
me, that we can continue the loan provided we pay 3% per month, then he agreed that I 
will pay £1500 pm, instead of £3000, he agreed to differ the 3%.He originally agreed that 
we can cary on for a year, then changed the arrangement to 6 months. My claim is that 
since he entered into arrangement/agreement with me, than that cancells the default, and 
makes the default unjustifiable , and also the 3% unjustifiable, because this is a default 
rate, and anyway, this is what loan sharks do.
Social Moneys offer was
We discussed a proposal whereby you would service the loan for 6 months at a rate of 
£1500 per month with payments commencing in September 2020. We would defer 
payment of the default fee and the difference between the default interest payments and 
the £1500 paid until the final redemption on or before 12 March 2021. The redemption 
statement below shows how your payments would be applied and the resultant 
redemption sum as at 12 Feb 2021.
Ms H and Mr H made a £1,500 payment on 7 September 2020 but then no further monthly 
payments were made from October onwards. Social Money has said it decided not to 
proceed with that offer as Ms H said she wasnt going to pay the interest and fees Social 
Money said were due. Having considered everything that has been said and provided, Im 
satisfied Social Money wasnt bound by its offer to accept £1,500 a month because Ms H and Mr H werent willing to agree to all the terms of that offer (namely the interest and fees 
that were due).
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
Summary
Having considered everything I dont uphold any part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. I find 
that Social Money has acted within the terms of the agreement Ms H and Mr H entered into 
and for that reason I consider it is fair and reasonable for Social Money to hold Ms H and 
Mr H to those terms.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman