DRN-2667915
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him mortgage Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) cover in 1994 which he didnt want. He says he wasnt given a choice.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr S with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint.
I accept Mr S may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was mis-sold to him. 
However, Im sure he will also understand that the sale was 27 years ago, and the mortgage 
and PPI policy have long since both closed. There is no original documentation left to refer 
to either from Nationwide or Ms S himself. 
However, as Nationwide is a major lender, Ive evidently seen quite a few similar cases from 
this time period, and I know quite a bit about the type of paperwork that consumers were 
usually given. My general experience is that consumers like Mr S would have been offered a 
choice about having PPI at the time. Therefore, for PPI to be added, he would have needed 
to agree to it and he would have needed to authorise the monthly premium  in this case it 
was around £15  to leave his bank account.
I also see that Mr S didnt keep the PPI for that long. After around 18-months or so he 
cancelled it, so I make the reasonable assumption that he would have known the policy was 
in existence and known he had the right to cease paying for it anymore. As I say, we have 
very little information to refer to here, but on the basis of what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely he first agreed to the cover and then decided later that he wanted to cancel it. Overall, I 
think Nationwide is more likely to have obtained the proper consent for the original sale.
After so long, and without any records, I clearly cant say for sure that Mr S was told 
enough. But its just as likely the sale information he was given was sufficient - as it was 
insufficient. Mr S, or the company representing him, cant provide anything to reasonably 
articulate how he wasnt told enough, as his description about this is very brief. But I think, 
for example, he would have been given a policy schedule outlining who was covered and 
for what. Also, because we know he later cancelled, I make the assumption he retained 
records of his policy number or other details, so he knew how to do this.
Its obviously possible, on the other hand, that Nationwide fell short in the information it 
gave to him. But theres nothing to say that hed have acted differently even if this was true. 
He seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well already have had some sickness 
protection with his job. But hes told us he had 12-months full sick pay with another 6-
months on half pay  a level of benefits I find very generous, and indeed, restricted to very 
few specific professions. Mr S was a public sector worker, he says employed for just 2 
years, so Im afraid I respectfully doubt the level sick pay being quite so good as claimed. 
Whatever his job-related benefits were however, his level of sick pay doesnt necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt of use to him. I think Mr Ss mortgage would have been a significant 
and long-term financial commitment and secured against his home. And the consequences 
of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the 
other hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if hed needed to claim 
- a considerable length of time and much longer than his sick pay would have lasted. 
I think the evidence is therefore more likely pointing to Mr S choosing the PPI, even if I 
accept that Nationwide might have done more to explain things.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely he never gave his proper consent or that there 
were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think its more likely he 
tailored the cover to suit his needs of the time and would have had a lot of documentation 
showing this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont direct Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman