DRN-3052318
The complaint
Ms K complains about her insurer, Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) under her 
motor insurance policy. Ms Ks complaint is about the valuation of her vehicle by Admiral 
following an accident.
Admiral uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Ms K had an accident in her vehicle in November 2020. Due to the extent of the damage 
Admiral considered the vehicle a total loss. Given the vehicles age, condition, mileage and 
other factors, Admiral valued the vehicle at £6,752. This was based a valuation from an 
industry valuation guide. Admiral then applied other factors:
a 20% deduction (£1,350) for the vehicle previously being subject to a total loss;
the excess of £550 due under the terms of Ms Ks policy; and 
a deduction of £1,756 for the salvage value of the car (as Ms K indicated that she 
wished to keep the vehicle). 
This meant a net settlement offer to Ms K of £3,096. Ms K was unhappy at this offer, as she 
thought it was significantly less than the vehicles value. Ms K commissioned her own 
engineers assessment of the vehicle, which valued the vehicle at £8,090 (a transactional 
value from an industry guide) and then made the same 20% reduction for the previous total 
loss and a further £250 deduction for wear and tear. This left a net valuation figure of £6,222. 
The engineer also took an average of advertised for sale values of similar models, which he 
calculated to be £8,053. The engineer also indicated a salvage value of 25% would be 
appropriate and noted that Ms Ks vehicle had additional optional extras.
Based on this, Ms K complained to Admiral. Admiral considered her complaint but rejected it, 
setting out the basis of valuation and the various factors in arriving at the settlement offer. 
Admiral said they had also looked at other motor industry valuation guides, and the one they 
had based their valuation on offered the higher figure.
Ms K was unhappy at her complaint being rejected and complained to this service. The main 
element of her complaint was that Admiral had significantly undervalued her vehicle.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Admiral had acted reasonably in 
applying a previous total loss deduction of 20%, but that the starting valuation of 
£6,752 was too low compared to valuations from the trade guides of £8,090 and 
£7,720. The investigator noted that Admiral had deducted a salvage value of £1,756 
(based on a set percentage of the overall value) but hadnt provided evidence to 
show how much it would have received for the vehicle as salvage. The investigator 
concluded that Admiral should re-calculate the settlement offer using the average of 
the trade guide valuations, less the total loss deduction and excess.
In response, Admiral revised its offer. It took the average of the two valuations (£7,905) and 
applied the 20% total loss deduction (£1,581) and excess (£550). It also applied a revised 
salvage figure of £2,213 (based on the market value before deductions) to arrive at a revised 
settlement offer of £3,561. 
The investigator didnt agree that the previous total loss adjustment wasnt deducted from 
the starting point average valuation when determining the salvage value. The complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman to review.
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusions that the starting valuation was too 
low and that an average figure of £7,905 should be used. I also agreed that an adjustment of 
20% for Ms Ks vehicle previously having been the subject of a total loss was fair, as was the 
settlement offer reflecting an appropriate salvage value for the vehicle and the applicable 
excess under the terms of Ms Ks policy (£550).
 
I also thought it was reasonable for Admiral to use contracted rates, reflecting the 
value they would obtain from salvage companies. However, I wasnt persuaded that 
the deduction for previous total loss shouldnt be deducted from the starting point 
valuation when determining the salvage value. I concluded that Admiral should apply 
the relevant contracted rate to the starting point valuation of the vehicle (£7,905) after 
the deduction for previous total loss (£1,581). That is, to use a value of £6,324 to 
determine the appropriate salvage value. 
Because I disagreed with Admirals approach to calculating the salvage value of the 
vehicle and, consequently, the settlement offer to Ms K, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Ms K.
Looking at way in which Admiral calculated the settlement offer to Ms K, Ive 
considered each of the elements of the valuation in turn. On the first element. the 
starting point valuation, I note Admiral have calculated a revised figure based on the 
average of the figures from the trade guides. The first figure of £8,090 is also the 
same as that used by Ms Ks engineer. I think using an average of this figure and the 
other trade guides figure is a fair and reasonable approach to take.
I also think its reasonable to make a deduction for Ms Ks vehicle having previously 
been the subject of a total loss. Both Admiral and Ms Ks engineer used a factor of 
20% as the basis of the deduction. Again, I think thats a reasonable approach. Its 
also fair that the settlement offer reflects the applicable excess under the terms of Ms 
Ks policy (£550). 
The remaining element is the salvage value of the vehicle. As Ms K indicated she 
wished to keep the vehicle, its right that Admiral make a deduction for the salvage 
value. That is, the value that Admiral could have obtained had they disposed of it 
(rather than Ms K electing to keep it). 
Admiral told us that the salvage value they used is based on contracted rates they 
have with salvage companies, based on a set percentage of the value of the vehicle 
before any deductions (such as policy excess, unpaid premiums and the vehicle 
previously being a total toss). I think its reasonable for Admiral to use contracted 
rates, as they reflect the value they would obtain from salvage companies. Its also reasonable that deductions for policy excess and any unpaid premiums are excluded 
from the calculation, as they relate to the policy rather than to the vehicle itself. 
However, Im not persuaded that the deduction for previous total loss shouldnt be 
deducted from the starting point valuation when determining the salvage value. Unlike 
deductions for policy excess and any unpaid premiums, the deduction for previous 
total loss relates to the vehicle itself and reflects that the value of the vehicle would be 
lower because of previously being a total loss. So, Ive concluded that while Admiral 
should use their contracted rates to determine the salvage value of the vehicle, they 
should apply the relevant contracted rate to the starting point valuation of the vehicle 
(£7,905) after the deduction for previous total loss (£1,581). That is, to use a value of 
£6,324 to determine the appropriate salvage value. 
I think its fair and reasonable to then also deduct the policy excess figure (£550).
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Ms Ks 
complaint. I intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms K a settlement 
offer of:
A vehicle value of £6,324 less:
oa salvage value based on the appropriate contracted rate for a vehicle value 
of £6,324; and
othe policy excess of £550.
Ms K responded to say that she didnt have anything more to add.
Admiral responded to say that, as they had previously stated, they were satisfied that the 
salvage amount had been correctly calculated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
In their response, Admiral simply restated their previous view that the salvage amount had 
been calculated correctly. However, that just means theyve used their standard approach of 
calculating the salvage value based on the starting point valuation before the deduction for 
previous total loss. My provisional conclusion was that this approach wasnt fair and 
reasonable in Ms Ks circumstances, and that the salvage value should be calculated on the 
starting point valuation after the deduction for previous total loss. Admiral havent made any 
substantive argument for why my provisional conclusion wasnt fair and reasonable. 
Taking this into account, then I havent changed my view and my reasoning and conclusions 
remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms K a settlement offer of:
A vehicle value of £6,324 less:
oa salvage value based on the appropriate contracted rate for a vehicle value 
of £6,324; andothe policy excess of £550.
Admiral should also pay simple interest of 8% on the value of the settlement offer, calculated 
on the basis set out above, from the date of their original settlement offer to the date Ms K 
tells us she accepts my decision (if she accepts the decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman