DRN-4081717
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc delayed the opening of a savings account he applied 
for or with how Santander administered the late opening of that account.
What happened
On 12 October 2022, Mr A applied online for an e-saver account with Santander. But 
Santander didnt open the account for Mr A until 22 October 2022. Mr A wasnt happy about 
this. And he also wasnt happy that he couldnt access his account until hed received online 
banking details from Santander, which were only posted to him after his account had been 
opened and which werent received by him until 31 October 2022. So, he raised a complaint. 
Santander apologised to Mr A for the late opening of the account and made paid £50 to him 
as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Mr A wasnt satisfied with 
Santanders response and felt Santander should change how they administer the account. 
Mr A also wanted Santander to reimburse interest he would have received had he deposited 
£50,000 into the account for three months. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. But they felt the response Santander had 
issued to Mr As complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Santander have accepted that they didnt open the e-saver account for Mr A as quickly as 
they should have done, and theyve explained that this was because of an influx of account 
applications which caused the processing of some applications to be unfortunately delayed. 
Santander have apologised to Mr A for this and have paid £50 to him as compensation.
Mr A is unhappy that, after submitting his application on 12 October 2022, it was only on 31 
October 2022 that he was able to access his account. But, while its clear a portion of the 
time Mr A wasnt able to access his account was the result of Santanders delay in opening 
the account, its also the case that because Santanders account opening process involved 
sending online banking details to successful applicants by post, Mr A would never have been 
able to access his new account as quickly as he would have liked  because he would 
always have had to wait for the receipt of those posted letters.
Mr A isnt happy that Santanders process includes that internet banking details are posted 
with a three to five working day timeframe for the receipt of those letters. But Im satisfied 
that how Santander choose to administer the opening of their accounts is a commercial 
decision that Santander are entitled to make. And I feel the explanation that Santander gave 
to Mr A about this point  which is that Santander dont send internet banking details 
electronically because of potential information security concerns  is reasonable.
Mr A also thinks Santander should reimburse him for interest he would have received had he 
deposited £50,000 into the account for three months. But Mr A chose to close the Santander 
account on 2 November 2022  shortly after he first logged into it on 31 October 2022. And 
during the time Mr A held the account he only ever made one deposit into it  for £1.
As such, I dont feel that there is any reason why Santander should reimburse Mr A interest 
on an amount he never actually deposited into the account for a period of time far greater 
than that which Mr A chose to keep the account open. And I also note that, given that Mr A 
didnt deposit £50,000 into the account, that this £50,000 would have been accruing interest 
elsewhere. And Im satisfied that it wouldnt fair that Mr A should accrue interest on this 
amount twice, as I feel hes effectively suggesting here.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that the only point of error for which Mr A should reasonably be 
compensated here is that Santander delayed the opening of the account for approximately a 
week. But Im also satisfied that the £50 Santander have already paid to Mr A already 
provides fair compensation to him for any trouble or upset this delay may have caused. And I 
say this in consideration of the impact that the delay may have had on Mr A, as well as in 
consideration of the general framework by which this service considers compensation 
amounts for trouble and upset  details of which can be found on this services website. 
All of which means that I feel the response that Santander issued to Mr As complaint 
already represents a fair outcome here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman