DRN-4338731
The complaint
A company which Ill call N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)
unfairly defaulted its loan.
The complaint is brought on Ns behalf by its director, Mr O.
What happened
N took out a £15,000 business loan with NatWest in March 2020. It then took out a Bounce
Back Loan (BBL) for £36,000 in May 2020.
N told us:
In October 2020, it contacted NatWest to apply for a payment holiday on its loan due 
the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic.
It wanted to change the term of the loan to seven years to make the repayments 
more affordable. NatWest had initially quoted a rate of 10.4% for this refinance 
borrowing, so it sent the various emails and information the bank had requested to 
proceed with the loan, but despite repeatedly contacting the bank by phone and 
email over several months, it didnt get a response.
In December 2021, it emailed NatWest to ask for help amending the terms of the 
BBL  which it was able to do using the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) options under the 
BBL scheme. This was followed up in January 2022, but the bank didnt call back as 
agreed. The banks system was showing incorrect information about the BBL balance 
so N thought it couldnt make the changes it needed to.
In February 2022, without warning, it received formal demands for both loans. The 
bank said they didnt receive any of the previously requested correspondence from 
N, so it resent this along with proof it had been provided when requested, but 
NatWest still refused to remove the formal demand or proceed with the refinance 
loan it had discussed.
The BBL was in arrears because the bank had closed its loan servicing account 
where the payments needed to be made from, and it was unable to open a new 
account to make any repayments.
NatWest eventually offered £75 then a further £150 compensation for the poor 
service, but this doesnt cover the time and inconvenience caused by the banks 
actions.
NatWest told us:
They attempted to contact N in October 2021 to discuss the companys accounts for 
the requested loan refinance which was quoted on a rate of 10.4%.
They then wrote to N in November and December 2021, and January 2022 about the 
affordability for the refinance loan but didnt receive a response.
As no formal repayment plan had been agreed with N, formal demands were issued 
for both loans in February 2022.
They acknowledged they received some correspondence from N which hadnt been 
acknowledged and at times their customer service could have been better. So, they 
had paid a total of £225 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
They couldnt open the BBL servicing account for N as this was done online through 
the banks main website and the company would have to do this itself.
Both the BBL and the refinance loan were still in arrears, but it was possible the 
original formal demands had been left in place by mistake after the emails from N 
with the requested financial information had been located.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said the compensation
paid by the bank wasnt sufficient for the impact on N and should be increased by a further
£125. However, she said NatWest had explained theyd reviewed the financial information
from N and based on what theyd seen they werent comfortable to provide the loan. The
investigator said this was a decision the bank was entitled to make, and this service couldnt
direct the bank to offer a new loan to N.
N didnt agree. It said when the loan had been discussed at no point had NatWest said this
was dependant on the companys financial information. It also said the BBL was in arrears
as the bank wouldnt open it the servicing account required  despite this being requested
for over a year - so it hadnt been able to make the repayments.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 August 2023. I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. Briefly, I consider:
NatWest did not properly assess Ns request to refinance its loan. The bank 
misplaced the documentation N provided, then failed to clearly explain what they 
needed from N to make their lending decision.
NatWest should not have issued a formal demand in respect of the loan. If everything 
had happened as it should, NatWest would not have recorded any adverse credit 
information at all against B in respect of the loan.
NatWest should not have issued a formal demand for the BBL in February 2022. But 
even if everything had happened as it should, I still think N would have experienced 
difficulties in making payments towards the BBL  so some (but not all) of the 
adverse credit information NatWest has recorded in respect of the BBL is fair.
To put matters right, NatWest should restructure both the loan and the BBL to put N 
in the position it would have been in if NatWest had acted promptly. It should also 
correct Ns credit records and make a payment to compensate N for the 
inconvenience it has suffered.
I give more details below.
Loan refinance
N says that NatWest has treated it unfairly by not providing a refinancing loan based 
on the 10.4% interest rate and associated terms which were discussed over the 
phone. It says during the discussion the bank didnt say that the new loan would be 
dependent on the companys financial information. Ive asked NatWest for a copy of the call where the loan was discussed, but they havent been able to provide this. 
However, I dont think this makes a difference here.
I say this because, Ns reason for contacting NatWest about refinancing the existing 
loan was due its financial position at the time. N had experienced a decrease in its 
turnover due to the Coronavirus pandemic and had already been granted a 
repayment holiday by the bank. I think it would have been reasonable for N to expect 
that it would have to show the loan was affordable, because it was looking to 
renegotiate on the existing loan in place and NatWest would have needed to check 
that it was meeting its obligations as a responsible lender.
I also think it was reasonable for the bank to request financial information from N to 
see whether or not the company would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner and without significant risk of financial difficulty in the future. I recognise Mr 
O believes he was misled by the bank and that they didnt say that Ns loan request 
was dependant on its financial position, but Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive 
seen the emails from NatWest which requested financial information for the bank to 
review and that the loan repayment information provided was just a quote that could 
change - not an offer  and I havent seen any evidence to show that a loan offer was 
guaranteed.
However, whilst I agree it was reasonable for NatWest to request the information and 
use this to make their lending decision, I dont think the bank dealt with N fairly whilst 
undertaking the review. Ive looked at the evidence from both parties and Ive seen 
that N repeatedly contacted the bank for assistance and replied promptly to 
NatWests requests for financial information  but due to errors by the bank, this 
information wasnt recorded correctly to show that it had been received. This meant 
that NatWest didnt proceed with their discussion to refinance Ns loan and then 
issued a formal demand which N understandably wasnt expecting as it believed the 
loan was still being reviewed.
I acknowledge that NatWest says it could issue the formal demand in line with their 
terms and conditions because a new arrangement hadnt been agreed. The bank 
also says it wrote to N in December and January to say that it needed to contact the 
bank to prevent the loan defaulting so the company could have contacted them. 
However NatWest hasnt been able to provide evidence that any of these letters were 
actually sent during this time. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was 
fair for NatWest to default the loan as Im persuaded the lack of new arrangement at 
the time was as a result of multiple bank errors.
Furthermore, since bringing the complaint to our service, NatWest has been provided 
again with the financial information it requested from N at the time for them to 
consider the loan request  as they asked. However, the bank has subsequently said 
due to the time thats passed it can no longer use this information. I acknowledge 
why this may be the case, and I dont think this is unreasonable, however this is not 
what was communicated to N or this service originally.
In addition, the bank has been provided with a copy of all Ns subsequent financial
information as requested, but they still havent decided on whether they will refinance 
N loan, and on what terms, or if not, what alternatives are available to support the 
company. I also havent seen any evidence that NatWest attempted to support N 
here, despite being made aware that the company was struggling due to the 
pandemic. This was further compounded when the bank was given evidence (on 
several occasions) in early 2022 by N to show that it had provided all the information 
the bank had asked for regarding the companys loan refinance  at the time it had initially been requested. So I dont think NatWest has treated N fairly here in both not 
providing its decision, and for the time taken to respond to this services requests.
Based on what Ive seen, I think NatWest needs to remove the default and adverse 
credit information from Ns credit file and make a final request for the information 
needed to make the loan refinance decision. They should do so within four weeks 
from receipt of any final decision so that N can review its options to move forward  
however I dont think its fair that NatWests decision should be dependent on N 
clearing the outstanding arrears as these have arisen due to a bank error  any 
refinance should consider repayment of the arrears as part of the agreement. If 
NatWest decides they are unable to offer the refinance, then they should look to 
discuss a way forward with N to repay the outstanding arrears and balance in
a reasonable way.
BBL account and balance issues
N told us that it has also been unable to make repayments to its BBL as it doesnt 
have an account to make the repayments and also received a formal demand for this 
loan. It says it has repeatedly contacted NatWest for assistance so it can make the 
contractual repayments but has been unable to do so since the bank corrected the 
outstanding loan balance.
NatWest told us that they dont open BBL servicing accounts for customers and that 
they would do this online themselves, and that it was reasonable to issue the formal 
demand for the BBL in February 2022 as N had missed several repayments by this 
point. However, I dont agree that it was fair for the bank to issue the formal demand.
I say this because Ive seen evidence that N contacted NatWest on 3 December 
2021, before the first repayment was due. 
N explained that it was unable to log onto the banks BBL system and it wanted to 
look at the options and make a new selection so it could make repayments and 
ensure the loan didnt default. However, despite further requests from N, I havent 
seen any evidence that the bank made N aware of their process, directed the 
company to the relevant information to allow it to make the required application or 
provided it with an alternative method to make the contractual repayments.
It wasnt until March 2022, after the formal demand had already been issued in 
February, that N was told how he to view this information. However, the balance was 
incorrect, and it then took a further month for NatWest to resolve this issue and they 
didnt resolve the system issue so N could apply for a new PAYG option. So I dont 
think the bank treated N fairly here.
N told us that from May 2022, it believed the issue with the BBL had been resolved 
and it was able to make repayments from an alternative account. NatWest has also 
told us that N applied for a further PAYG option to extend the term of the BBL which 
commenced in June 2022. So Im satisfied that N has been able to arrange a 
reduction its repayments with the bank in line with the scheme rules, however, I think 
this is an option NatWest should have supported N in taking when it made its original 
request for help in December 2021. And based on what Ive seen from N, Im 
persuaded it would have taken this option had it been able to do so.
N has told us that it made repayments for June and July 2022 but then stopped due 
to struggling to meet all of its outstanding liabilities. Whilst I recognise N was having 
difficulties with the BBL prior to this point and wasnt sure on the outstanding balance 
or arrears, I think it was reasonable to expect it to continue with repayments from June 2022 once the new PAYG option had been applied. So I cant fairly hold 
NatWest responsible for N not making repayments from June 2022 onwards.
However, given that N made two repayments to the BBL, I think the BBL balance 
should be recalculated to show these payments were made in January and February 
2022, to put the company back in the position it would have been, had the error not 
taken place. Therefore I think its fair for NatWest to report arrears on Ns credit file 
from this point as I havent seen any evidence that suggests it would have been able 
to make the BBL repayments if the PAYG term extension had been applied when it 
should have been.
Inconvenience and poor customer service
NatWest has accepted that it made mistakes in misplacing the information N had 
provided to support its refinance request. They offered N £75 for the initial error  
although the company didnt accept this and returned the cheque. The bank then 
paid a further £150 compensation for providing incorrect information  but I dont 
think they have done enough to put things right.
I say this because Ive seen that Ns director, Mr O has repeatedly called and 
emailed NatWest for assistance, providing copies of correspondence on several 
occasions and still not received a reasonable response. The bank issued formal 
demands for Ns loans without warning, and despite being provided with supporting 
documents didnt remove the defaults which impacted the companys ability to seek 
alternative arrangements - in addition to providing conflicting information during this 
period about both the position and balance of the loans. So I think its clear that 
NatWest caused N unnecessary inconvenience at a time the bank should have been 
providing additional support as they were aware that N was in financial difficulty.
I think its also worth noting here that since this service became involved with the 
complaint, NatWest has been provided with the information they said was required 
for them to decide about the loan refinance. However, they have on several 
occasions then changed their request, and asked for information that has either 
already been provided, or information that could have been requested months earlier. 
So I dont think NatWest has behaved in a reasonable manner here and I think they 
have caused N further inconvenience.
Putting things right
My aim in considering compensation is, so far as possible, to put N back into the 
position it would have been in if NatWest had treated it fairly. So far as the loan is 
concerned, I think that if NatWest hadnt misplaced Ns documentation it would have 
made its lending decision by mid-November 2021. But I dont know what that 
decision would have been. Ive seen the quote suggesting NatWest might offer a 
term of seven years at a rate of 10.4% subject to Ns financial position, but I dont 
know whether the loan would in fact have gone ahead on that basis.
Even if the loan had gone ahead on the basis of the quote, I dont know whether the
payments would have been affordable for N. I know that it didnt actually make any
payments to the loan after the original expiry date  but as Ive said, I consider that
NatWests failures prevented N from making those payments. I think the fairest 
approach now is for N to be given the opportunity to make up for its missed 
payments. If it is able to do so, NatWest should remove any adverse credit 
information in respect of the loan.In addition, I dont know what interest rate NatWest actually charged on Ns loan after 
the original expiry date  for example, I dont know whether it charged a default rate 
or some other amount.
I think the fairest approach to compensation is for NatWest to consider the difference
between:
Ns actual loan, considering the loan balance, any arrears, and the payments N 
actually made towards the loan; and
The position Ns loan would have been in on the calculation date if its terms had 
changed to those in the quote from the date of the expiry of the loan, and N had 
made the necessary monthly payments.
NatWest should then give N the opportunity to make the missed payments. If it does 
so, NatWest should restructure the loan on the assumption the terms of the loan had 
changed to those in the quote between the expiry of the original loan and the 
calculation date. NatWest should also correct Ns credit record.
If N does not believe it will be able to meet any missed payments, it should say so in 
its response to this provisional decision. If Ns position is that it would not have been 
able to make payments even if NatWest had made no errors, that is likely to have an 
impact on my view of fair compensation.
I dont intend to order NatWest to continue offering a loan to N on the terms set out in 
the quote. But I do intend to order it to consider Ns application according to its usual 
criteria (but disregarding any arrears caused by NatWests own errors).
In respect of the BBL, NatWest should:
Restructure the loan on the assumption its term had been extended to 10 years in 
January 2022 after the expiry of its capital repayment holiday at the end of December 
2021 - rather than in June 2022. That will have an impact on Ns future monthly 
payments as well as on the balance of the loan and on the arrears.
In carrying out the restructure, NatWest may take account of the fact N has not made 
a payment towards the BBL since June 2022. Given that N only made two payments 
to the BBL after the term was extended, I think it would be fair to assume that even if 
the term had been extended earlier, N would still only have made two payments.
Based on what Ive seen I think NatWest should pay N a further £600 on top of the 
£150 they have already paid for the inconvenience caused. The £600 includes the 
£75 that N didnt originally accept (and returned to the bank) and brings the total 
compensation payable for the inconvenience caused to £750.
I invited N and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. NatWest accepted the decision and said that they 
would consider Ns refinance application once the outstanding arrears had been cleared on 
its BBL. They also advised that N was able to take a capital repayment holiday of up-to six 
months on three occasions during the term of the BBL under the PAYG options if the 
company wished to use this to reduce its outstanding arrears balance. 
N also accepted the decision. It said it hadnt actually received the original £150 
compensation payment and asked that this cheque be cancelled, and the full amount paid 
upon acceptance of this decision. It also said, it would like to apply for the full consecutive 18-month capital repayment holiday PAYG option, to reduce the outstanding arrears which it 
would then clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both NatWest and N responded to say they accepted the decision, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
do the following: 
In respect of the refinancing loan it should consider the difference between:
Ns actual loan, considering the loan balance, any arrears, and the payments N 
actually made towards the loan; and
The position Ns loan would have been in on the calculation date if its terms had 
changed to those in the quote from the date of the expiry of the loan, and N had 
made the necessary monthly payments.
Give N the opportunity to make the missed payments. Once it has does so, the bank 
should restructure the loan on the assumption the terms of the loan had changed to 
those in the quote between the expiry of the original loan and the calculation date - 
consider Ns application according to its usual criteria (but disregarding any arrears 
caused by NatWests own errors).
Correct Ns credit record.
In respect of the BBL, it should:
Restructure the loan on the assumption its term had been extended to 10 years in
January 2022 after the expiry of its capital repayment holiday at the end of December
2021 - rather than in June 2022. Then amend Ns future monthly payments as well as 
on the balance of the loan and on the arrears.
It may take account of the fact N has not made a payment towards the BBL since 
June 2022. Given that N only made two payments to the BBL after the term was 
extended, I think it would be fair to assume that even if the term had been extended 
earlier, N would still only have made two payments.
Pay N the total compensation payable for the inconvenience caused of £750 and arrange for 
the cancellation of the original cheque which wasnt cashed by N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman