DRN-3316136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies with four loans by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI policies in 1996,1997,1999 and 2000 when they took out 
personal loans. The later loans were in each case partly to repay the preceding loan. Mr and 
Mrs S said the sales took place by phone. Nationwide couldnt confirm the method of sale for 
the first loan, but said their records suggested the second loan was taken out by post, the 
third in a branch and the last by phone. Mr and Mrs S said they werent given a choice about 
taking the policies and indeed they were pressured into doing so, and that they didnt need 
the cover.
The first policy was a monthly premium policy with a cost of £26.66 each month. The 
monthly benefit amount is unknown, but it appears it wouldve been equivalent to the loan 
payment plus the PPI premium. The other policies were single premium PPI policies, so the 
cost was added to each loan and was repayable, with interest, over the term (60 months in 
each case) The premiums were £1,498.98, £2,525.28 and £2,525.28 respectively , on loans 
of £8,000 (1997), £15,000 (1999) and £15,000 (2000). The final loan was repaid in 2004.
In each case the policy provided life, accident and sickness and unemployment cover for Mr 
S as the first-named person on the loan (but for the first loan, Mrs S would also have had life 
cover). If theyd made a successful unemployment claim, the policy wouldve covered the 
loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim. For accident and sickness, it couldve paid 
out for up to the remaining term of the loan (although for the first policy there was a limit of 
24 months).
Our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough evidence to say that Nationwide mis-sold 
the policies. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide gave us copies of various documents relating to Mr and Mrs Ss loans. It sent in 
application forms for the 1997 and 1999 loans, and Mr and Mrs Ss loan agreements for the 
1997, 1999 and 2000 loans. It also provided sample copies of the loan agreements that 
wouldve been in use in 1996, and the telephone application form that its representative 
wouldve filled in during the phone call for the 2000 loan. And I have copies of the PPI 
policies and information booklets. Nationwide also sent in a note of a phone call it had with 
Mr S, and a note from the underwriter with basic details of the 1996 policy.
Nationwide couldnt confirm the method of sale for the first loan and PPI policy, so in the 
absence of any other information Ill consider this as a telephone sale in line with what Mr 
and Mrs S remember. Nationwide also said that the application form for the 1997 loan was 
one that had been sent to Mr and Mrs S as part of a mailshot, and the form for the 1999 loan 
was one that was available from a branch. Based on the evidence I have this seems right. 
All parties agree that the last loan and PPI were sold over the phone. 
The main complaint point raised by Mr and Mrs S was that they were pressured into taking 
the PPI and werent given a choice about it. Ive carefully considered everything they said 
about that. 
Looking first at the application process, I accept that I cant know how the representative 
presented the PPI during the telephone sales (the 1996 and 2000 loans). I cant be certain 
whether there was contact with a Nationwide representative during the application process 
for the 1997 and 1999 loans  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S said there was, but some of 
their recollections are inconsistent with the documentary evidence. Of course this isnt 
surprising as the loans were taken out so long ago and memories can fade with time. 
I can see from the two application forms from 1997 and 1999, that there were yes and no 
options for applicants to complete to say whether they wanted PPI  and in both cases Mr 
and Mrs S indicated that they did want it. 
On the telephone application form that Nationwide wouldve completed during the 2000 sale, 
there is the question Insurance cover being taken? with yes and no boxes alongside it. 
The presence of these options on the form suggests that the representative shouldve 
offered Mr and Mrs S a choice about the PPI. I accept that I cant know whether the 
representative followed the prompts in the application record exactly. But I think its 
reasonable to take it that the process was broadly followed. 
Turning to the loan agreements, as I mentioned above I only have sample copies for the 
1996 loan. But I have no reason to think something different wouldve been in use in Mr and 
Mrs Ss case. On all of the agreements, I can see that the PPI is clearly described as being 
optional, with the cost set out underneath. For the first policy this is the monthly premium, 
and for each of the other loans  where the premiums were added to the loans - the cost is 
broken down into the premium, interest chargeable, total cost and monthly payment.
Ive also taken into account what we know about other Nationwide sales during the years in 
question, especially as we dont have the original documents from the 1996 sale. But Ive not 
seen particular problems with consumers not being given a choice, or pressure being 
exerted to take out PPI. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this, but looking at all of the evidence, I 
cant fairly say that its most likely that Mr and Mrs S were told they had to take out the 
policies, or were pressured into doing so, which is what I must be able to do before I can 
uphold their complaint on this point. I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what 
happened.
Nationwide said it didnt recommend the policies for Mr and Mrs S  and they agreed. So 
Nationwide didnt have to make sure the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs S. But it 
should have given them enough information in each case for them to make an informed 
decision about taking the cover. As Ive explained, I cant know how the representative presented the PPI during the 
telephone sales, and I cant be certain whether there was direct contact with a Nationwide 
representative in the other two sales. Nationwide says it wouldve issued information about 
the policies, but Mr and Mrs S said they didnt receive anything. 
However, looking at the terms and conditions for each policy, I have no evidence to suggest 
that Mr S (and Mrs S for the first policy) wouldve been affected by any of the main 
exclusions  they both said they were employed and in good health at the time of each sale. 
Mr and Mrs S also said that, at the time of each sale, they were entitled to sick pay and 
redundancy pay from their employers, although they couldnt remember how much this 
wouldve amounted to. They initially said they thought their sick pay would have been 
between three and six months pay, although they later said it couldve been less than this. 
They also said they had another PPI policy, but this was to cover their mortgage. Taking all 
of this into account, I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve found it difficult in each case to make the 
loan repayments if Mr S (as the person insured) had been off sick for any length of time or 
had lost his job. Ive also kept in mind that each of the policies couldve paid out for 12 
months for unemployment or for the remaining term of the loan (or 24 months for the first 
policy) for accident and sickness  much longer than sick pay would generally last. So I think 
the PPI policies couldve provided a useful benefit.
As I mentioned, Im satisfied the costs were set out clearly on the loan agreements, and for 
each of the single premium policies, Im also satisfied that the potential benefit reasonably 
exceeded the cost. And Mr and Mrs S received a proportionate refund of the premium each 
time when they repaid the loans early. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs S told us. But overall, I dont have 
enough evidence to say that Nationwide mis-sold the policies to Mr and Mrs S. Although I 
cant say whether Nationwide fully explained the policy terms in each case, Im not satisfied 
that they would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. The policies 
couldve provided useful cover if Mr S (as the insured) couldnt work. This means Mr and Mrs 
S are not worse off as a result of what Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman