DRN-1471026
Complaint
Mr McD complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) didnt make it clear to him that additional 
credit checks would be undertaken when he applied for a promotional balance transfer on 
his credit card.
Background
Mr McD has credit cards with MBNA and was sent a promotional offer to take advantage of 
0% interest for balance transfers. Mr McD rang MBNA to take up the offer and during the 
process of the application his request was declined. He was advised to check his credit 
score. Mr McD was surprised that his balance transfer request was subject to credit 
reference checks by MBNA as this wasnt made clear on the offer he had received. Mr McD 
complained to MBNA and wants compensation to cover the interest he is now paying on the 
credit card he wished to repay with the balance transfer offer.
MBNA agreed the promotional offer didnt state that further credit checks would be 
performed, but he would have seen that further down the offer letter it explained that balance 
transfers are subject to eligibility and credit checks. MBNA also say under the credit card 
terms and conditions it makes clear that additional credit provided is subject to further credit 
checks. MBNA paid Mr McD £50 as an apology for any inconvenience it may have caused.  
Mr McD was unhappy with the response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr McDs complaint. 
He felt that the main terms and conditions of his credit card govern the account and whilst he 
agreed the initial offer didnt implicitly explain further credit searches would be undertaken, 
this wouldnt prevent MBNA carrying them out. The investigator also felt that the initial 
promotional offer explains in FAQs, eligibility is subject to credit checks.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have come to the same outcome as 
the investigator here and I will go on to explain my decision.
Mr McD has made clear in his complaint that he is not disputing the outcome of the decision 
to decline the balance transfer offer, but MBNA didnt make clear when he applied for the 
offer they would be undertaking credit checks on him. He also feels that it is unfair of MBNA 
to say that he should understand this from the terms and conditions applying to his card.So 
when looking at this complaint I have looked at whether MBNA have acted fairly and 
reasonably when carrying out the checks when he applied for the balance transfer offer.
This service has been provided with screen shots of the balance transfer offer to Mr McD 
and I can understand that he feels it is not completely clear that credit checks would be 
undertaken. It does say that Once your balance transfer has been approved and weve 
made the necessary security checks, the transfer(s) should reach your account by the next 
working day . This does show that the balance transfer offer is subject to approval by 
MBNA. MBNA said if  Mr McD scrolled down the offer page he would have seen under FAQs Will 
this affect my credit score?  which explains that Balance transfer requests are subject to 
eligibility and security checks, but these will not leave a footprint on your credit file. MBNA 
felt this was accessible to Mr McD and it is his responsibility to look into the terms applying 
to the offer. MBNA have provided the terms and conditions of Mr McDs credit card and 
under the section How we use your information it does explain that they may:
Search credit reference and fraud prevention agencies records (including information from 
overseas) to manage your account and make decisions about credit, including whether to 
make credit available or to continue or extend your existing credit.  or Assess any 
application for credit or other financial services you or members of your household make (we 
may use credit-scoring or other automated decision-making systems to do this).
Mr McD says that MBNA shouldnt expect him to refer back to his card terms and conditions 
or look for the FAQs to understand any other conditions applying to the offer. I have 
considered this point, but I am satisfied the terms and conditions of his credit card are 
relevant and when he, or any customer, make a request for increased borrowing there is a 
responsibility to establish what conditions might apply to it. In this case the FAQs explain 
how the offer may affect his credit score and were available for Mr McD to read.  Mr McD 
said in a phone call to MBNA that he regularly checks his credit score and knows what it is, 
which suggests Mr McD understands credit checks are a normal business activity and not 
something new to him.
MBNA have recognized the earlier part of the offer letter could have been clearer and have 
fed this back to their appropriate team.  In recognition of this they have paid £50 to Mr McD 
for the inconvenience. This is what I would expect to see here and I feel on balance, is a fair 
sum. I understand that Mr McD is frustrated that he hasnt been able to benefit from the offer 
and as a result he is paying interest on another card he was hoping to pay off with the 0% 
balance transfer offer. The offer was subject to approval so I cant see that MBNA can be 
held responsible for Mr McD anticipating the balance transfer offer being approved. 
I am satisfied that Mr McD did have the opportunity to establish any other conditions 
applying to the  balance transfer offer and the £50 paid, for the upset and inconvenience he 
was put to, was fair and reasonable. It follows I cant ask anymore of MBNA here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr McD to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman