DRN-1182478
 
Complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mrs R took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1986. In 2001, she took out a PPI policy as part of 
an insurance package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan, or TMPP for short.
In 2002, Mrs R took out a further advance. She replaced her existing TMPP package with a 
new one, also including PPI to cover her new repayments.
Mrs R paid for her PPI with regular monthly premiums, which didnt attract interest. The 
policies covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mrs R, I have not found that either of these policies were 
mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have the original documents from the 2001 sale, which is understandable 
given just how long ago it was. But from what weve seen of Halifaxs sales process from the 
time for this type of policy, they wouldve given Mrs R the choice to take or leave PPI, and 
only added it if she actively chose it. The PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately to the 
cost of the mortgage, and not as something that she had to have or which was necessarily 
part and parcel of the mortgage. And I dont have any evidence to show that Halifax 
significantly departed from their normal process here.
Further, Mrs R had already had her mortgage since 1986 without PPI, so she wouldve 
known she didnt have to have PPI with it. I understand Mrs R recalls feeling that she had to 
take this policy. But I need to bear in mind that memories can and do fade over time, that 
buying insurance is not often memorable, that theres no evidence which shows Halifax 
misled Mrs R in this sale, and that the evidence I do have about the sales process indicates 
they wouldve given her a fair choice and that Mrs R wouldve already known she could have 
a mortgage without PPI. So overall, I think its most likely that Halifax gave Mrs R a choice 
about buying PPI, and she chose to take it in 2001.In 2002, Mrs Rs further advance application offered her the option to increase her cover, or 
to turn down further cover. The option to take out further cover was chosen, the option to 
turn it down was left blank, and Mrs R signed specifically for TMPP, separately to signing for 
the loan itself. So again, I think that Halifax made Mrs R aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs R on both occasions, so they had to check it was right 
for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mrs R was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. While Mrs R had some benefits through work, the PPI covered her 
for far longer and wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits. And she didnt have any 
equivalent alternative cover elsewhere. Its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment, and if Mrs R had fallen behind on her repayments she 
couldve lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for her protecting 
her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs R chose to take out PPI, which indicates she wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policies didnt cover, and they couldve really been useful for her in case something went 
wrong. And at the time of each sale the policies were competitively priced given how much 
each one would pay out in a claim. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to 
have put Mrs R off taking out these policies.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman