DRN-3567052
The complaint
H, a limited company, is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after it made a claim 
on its Combined Commercial insurance policy. H is represented by one of its directors, Mr H. 
What happened
H had a dispute with its landlord and contacted Aviva in mid May 2021 to see if it would fund 
a claim under its legal expenses insurance policy. There was an initial debate over whether 
H was able to use its own solicitors or was required to use one of Avivas panel solicitors. 
The claim was sent to a panel firm towards the end of June for an assessment of whether it 
had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
That firm advised in early July they had a conflict of interest so Aviva agreed H could use its 
own solicitors. Initially Aviva said it wouldnt provide funding for them to carry out the 
prospects assessment but at the end of August it agreed to do so. Aviva accepted there had 
been delay by it in progressing matters. It also agreed some of its communication with H 
should have been better. It offered to pay a total of £300 to recognise the inconvenience H 
was caused by that. 
Our investigator said we could only consider as part of this complaint what happened until 
Aviva issued its final response at the end of August 2021. And she thought the £300 
compensation Aviva had offered fairly recognised the impact on H of what Aviva got wrong 
in that period. 
Mr H didnt agree. He thought under the relevant rules he should have been able to choose 
his own solicitor from the outset. And he highlighted the stress hed been caused by the 
matter and disputed a distress payment couldnt be made to H. He also drew attention to 
what he believed were further failings by Aviva since August 2021 along with difficulties with 
a separate (though related) business interruption claim. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I can see Mr H has been caused considerable personal distress by whats happened and 
theres also evidence of an impact on his health. I was very sorry to learn about this. But 
while I appreciate Mr H feels we should be able to make an award which reflects that, it isnt 
something Im, able to do. Thats because the eligible complainant in this case is H and I 
can only consider the impact on it. And as H is a limited company its not possible for it to 
suffer distress. It can of course be inconvenienced which is something Ill consider later in 
this decision. 
Mr H has also raised concerns about what happened after Aviva issued its final response on 
this complaint in August 2021 (together with concerns about a business interruption claim). 
But those arent matters Im considering in this decision. If Mr H wants to pursue those 
matters hes free to do so but those would need to be considered as separate complaints. 
The issue Im looking at is the handling of Hs claim from May 2021, when it was made, until 
Aviva issued its final response in August 2021. 
Mr H says when he made the claim he had the right to choose his own solicitor at that point 
and has referenced the legal position as set out in the Insurance Companies (Legal 
Expenses Insurance) Regulations. But having taken into account the regulations and other 
relevant case law our long standing approach is a policyholder should be allowed the 
freedom to choose their own solicitor from the point that legal proceedings need to be 
started. From the information Ive seen its not clear that was the case here as when H 
contacted Aviva a pre action protocol hadnt been issued. 
In any event, and regardless of that, its a condition of the policy that any claim has 
reasonable prospects of success. At the point H contacted Aviva that hadnt been confirmed 
and cover isnt available under the policy until thats been established. I think it was 
reasonable of Aviva to refer the matter to panel solicitors for them to assess whether that 
was the case. When they subsequently advised Aviva they were unable to act due to a 
conflict I also think it was appropriate for Aviva to agree H could use its own solicitors. 
However, I dont think its in dispute Aviva got things wrong in the handling of this claim. I 
agree its initial correspondence with H was confusing because this included information 
about the right to choose its own solicitor which was premature given that prospects of 
success hadnt been established at that point. And Aviva was wrong to subsequently tell H it 
didnt provide any funding for either a panel or non panel firm to carry out an assessment of 
prospects. 
I think that was addressed by its subsequent agreement to provide funding to Hs solicitor to 
carry out that assessment but that did delay the progress of the claim. I also think it could 
potentially have offered an alternative panel firm to carry out the assessment at an earlier 
date. And Aviva has accepted there were other points at which it should have moved matters 
forward more quickly. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether the compensation Aviva has offered recognises the 
impact on H of what it got wrong. Ive taken into account that these failings did delay the 
progress of the claim. But Im also mindful of the fact the overall time taken includes 
elements for which Aviva wasnt responsible (for example that the initial panel solicitors had 
a conflict of interest). I also note Hs broker was involved in following up points with Aviva 
which I think will have lessened the direct inconvenience to H of what Aviva got wrong. 
Taking all of that into account I think the £300 Aviva has already offered is reasonable. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer totalling £300 to settle this complaint and 
for the reasons Ive explained I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
I understand that amount hasnt yet been paid.  If thats the case my decision is Aviva 
Insurance Limited should pay H £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 James Park
Ombudsman