DRN-2315847
The complaint
Mr N complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc have handled his home insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr N has strong views about what has happened and has provided numerous 
submissions to support his complaint. I want to assure Mr N Ive read and considered all of 
these carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr N, and by 
AXA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr N is unhappy with how AXA handled his complaint. There a number of factors that 
determine whether or not we can consider a complaint, such as whether the activity 
complained about is something we can investigate. Regulated activities are a 
specified list of activities the Financial Conduct Authority regulate and authorise 
financial businesses to carry out.  I wont repeat the full list here as it contains a large 
number of activities. But this doesnt include complaint handling. So I wont be 
commenting on this any further in my decision
Its not unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved. But I do 
think there were several times where AXA failed to get things right, or couldve acted 
quicker, causing avoidable delays
For example, AXA issued a cheque to Mr N on more than one occasion, when hed 
already asked AXA to issue all payments via BACS, causing delays when this 
needed to be corrected. On another occasion the contractor AXA appointed issued a 
report with an incorrect number of items. Mr N had to contact AXA in order to put this 
right and this caused further delay in the claims progress
There were also some significant changes regarding the settlement to be paid to 
Mr N and, I can see this caused additional delays as this was increased twice, and 
Mr N has had to chase this both times. AXA accepted there were issues with 
correctly identifying the right scope of work needed. But I think AXA couldve been 
more proactive in ensuring this was settled sooner
Mr N is unhappy AXA wouldnt pay VAT up front. Although I can understand the 
reason Mr N wanted this, considering AXAs explanation of why they wouldnt usually 
do this, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably 
AXA accepted there were failings in their handling of Mr Ns claim and has offered 
him £1,000 compensation. Taking everything into account, I think this is a reasonable 
amount and it fairly reflects the inconvenience AXAs actions have caused. So I wont 
be asking AXA to make any further payment to Mr N
So I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman