DRN-4126972
The complaint
Miss S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2019, Miss S acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss S undertook to make 
59 monthly repayments of £232.58. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£13,722.22 at an APR of 35.9%.
 
Miss S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a search of Miss S credit file and 
checking her income. Moneybarn also said it was aware of a recent default (eight months 
old), but this didnt cause it concern as Miss S had low borrowing levels and no CCJs. It also 
pointed out that it aims to assist people with moderate means seeking access to credit that 
may otherwise be unavailable to them and it operates as a second chance lender meaning 
historic negative behaviour wouldnt necessarily lead to an application being declined.
One of our investigators looked into Miss S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
She thought Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in approving the finance.
Miss S didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Miss S appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence
and information from Miss S about her ability to repay that finance.
As part of her application Miss S declared she was employed as a shop manager on a (net) 
monthly income of £1,248. Moneybarn said this declared income was verified with one of the 
major credit reference agencies and Im satisfied this is what Moneybarn did. I think its also 
worth pointing out that bank statements provided to our service (by Miss S) confirms such an 
income and actually suggests she was receiving other funds monthly including, but not 
restricted to, work and child tax credits of over £400. So, I think Moneybarn carried out 
proportionate checks in respect of Miss S declared income.
I will now turn to the checks Moneybarn said it undertook in respect of establishing Miss S 
non-discretionary expenditure at £841.08. Moneybarn said it used data from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) to do this. And taking everything into account, including what 
Moneybarn says its credit file check returned, I think this was reasonable and proportionate.
However, just because I think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence
and information Moneybarn collected, or was likely to have collected, showed or would have 
shown. And having done so Im satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly when approving 
Miss S application.
For the sake of completeness, and notwithstanding that Im satisfied that Moneybarn caried 
out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision, Ive considered what might have 
come to light had Moneybarn undertaken further checks or enquiries into Miss S 
expenditure rather than relying on data provided by the ONS. And having considered 
everything Miss S has provided our service, including bank statements, Im not persuaded 
further checks or enquiries on the part of Moneybarn would have resulted, or should have 
resulted, in it deciding to decline Miss S application rather than approving it.
I appreciate that Miss S might have significant financial issues that started several months 
after she took the finance out. But Im required to decide if Moneybarn was reasonable when 
it made its decision to provide the finance in September 2019. And as Ive explained, I think 
there was evidence at that time that this finance was affordable for Miss S. However, I would 
remind Moneybarn of its obligations to treat Miss S fairly and with due consideration and 
forbearance in respect of any sums it believes its entitled to seek the recovery of from her in 
respect of the agreement subject to this complaint.
In summary, and I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed, I dont think Moneybarn has done
anything wrong and Im not asking it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman