DRN-3957737
The complaint
The estate of Mr T complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
turned down its claim. 
What happened
The late Mr T took out a decreasing term life assurance policy underwritten by L&G in 2019. 
The cover was designed to pay a benefit in the event of Mr Ts death or terminal illness, 
during the 26 year policy term. 
Mr T sadly passed away in 2021 and his estate made a claim against the policy. 
As part of its assessment of the claim, L&G obtained details of the cause of Mr Ts death, his 
medical records and asked questions of his GP. 
Following its assessment, L&G declined the claim. It said this was because Mr T had not 
disclosed relevant information it had asked about during the application process in May 
2019. And it said had that information been properly disclosed, it wouldnt have been able to 
offer Mr T a policy. Because of this, it said it would cancel the policy and refund the 
premiums. 
The estate complained. L&G said it had reviewed the decision not to pay claim and thought 
this had been correct. In respect of complaint points about customer service, it said it 
accepted there were times when it should have shown more empathy and provided more 
support to Mr Ts family members during communications. And it offered £700 in 
compensation. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, the estate brought its complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they thought L&G hadnt acted 
unfairly.
L&G made no comment on the investigators view. However the estate disagreed. In 
summary it said 
the report covering alcohol consumption was unreliable and Mr T may have 
exaggerated his drinking in order to get help via the NHS; 
the reasons L&G has given to explain why it wouldnt have offered the policy are not 
accepted;
the application answers are irrelevant  L&G is disputing the cause of Mr Ts death; 
and
L&G should pay at least a reduced proportion of the policy benefit and interest which 
has been accrued on the mortgage of the late Mr Ts property. 
As the estate asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint is one which should be upheld. And Ill explain 
why.
If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
I should also clarify that it is not within the remit of this service does to make an award for 
distress and inconvenience to an estate or relative of the consumer. Under our rules, we can 
consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr T was the consumer and when he passed away, 
the right to complain passed to his estate. But I must explain that, although Mr Ts family 
member is representing the estate, they are not L&Gs customer. Their role is to bring the 
complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might instruct a solicitor or 
other professional to represent them in a complaint. Whilst I appreciate the very distressing 
circumstances at the heart of the claim, I am not able to award compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused to a representative. And so I wont be commenting on the £700 
L&G has offered the estate in respect of its claim handling, as part of this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G has said Mr T failed to take reasonable care in answering its questions when he took 
out the policy. 
Mr T applied for the policy at the end of May 2019 and as part of the application process, he 
was asked the following questions.
How often do you drink alcohol? 
Mr T answered weekly.
During a typical week, how many alcoholic drinks do you have? For example, a drink is a 
glass of wine of a glass or bottle of beer. 
Mr T answered 5Have you ever? 
Been referred to or been seen by an alcohol specialist
Attended or been advised to attend an alcohol support group
Mr T answered no
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis? 
Mr T answered no
Anxiety, depression or stress thats required treatment or counselling, or chronic 
fatigue syndrome?
Mr T answered no
Mr Ts medical records showed the following information about the period leading up to Mr T 
applying for the policy. 
May 2019 
Record of raised blood pressure and cholesterol readings. 
April 2019 
Therapist assessment letter - mild symptoms of depression and anxiety, and moderate 
levels of overall psychological distress. Mr T is noted to have said he was drinking 10  20 
units of alcohol each day during the week and more at the weekend with 1  2 alcohol free 
days per week. 
March 2019
A review for alcohol problem drinking. Mr T was noted to have said he had changed the 
type of alcohol he was drinking. Thiamine tablets were prescribed. Advised to inform DVLA.
Mr T had attended an alcohol support group session, but this had not suited him. 
February 2019 
Mr T is noted to have said he was consuming between half and a full bottle of a spirit every 
night after work in the past two years. He was advised he would unlikely be safe to drive in 
the morning based on the alcohol consumption. And he was given details of a self-referral 
for counselling.  
In relation to alcohol consumption, I note the questionnaire completed by Mr Ts GP reflected 
that he had been consuming a very high number of units of alcohol. The GP had written next 
to this number unreliable estimate however. It seems the GP calculated the number of 
units of alcohol Mr T would have been drinking, based on a statement that he would drink 
between half and a whole bottle of a spirit each night after work, and completed this number 
on L&Gs questionnaire. And the GP wrote unreliable estimate next to that number of units. 
Ive taken this into consideration, however Im not persuaded this means all of the 
information recorded about Mr Ts drinking habits was unreliable. Rather I think the GP was 
questioning the very high number of units of alcohol, as being an unrealistic amount. If I were to set the GPs higher estimate of alcohol units aside, Im still satisfied the other 
medical evidence available reliably reflects the level of alcohol Mr T had reported 
consuming. In a therapists letter dated April 2019 following an assessment, Mr T was 
reported to have said he was drinking 10  20 units of alcohol each day during the week and 
more at the weekend, with 1  2 alcohol free days per week. And when asked about his 
alcohol consumption in May 2019 when he applied for the policy, Mr T had said he would 
have five drinks in a typical week. So a much lower amount, considering L&G clarified the 
question by saying a drink would be one bottle of beer or glass of wine. 
In addition to this, Im also persuaded that Mr Ts answer of weekly in answer to how often 
he drank alcohol was incorrect, as the April 2019 letter reflects he was drinking daily. And he 
should have answered yes when he was asked about alcohol support groups, as the 
medical records in March 2019 state he had attended a group. 
I think the questions L&G asked about alcohol were sufficiently clear, and I think based on 
the medical evidence, its reasonable to expect Mr T to have declared that he was having 
more than five drinks per week, and that he had attended a support group, particularly as 
this had occurred quite recently, just a couple of months prior to him answering the 
questions. 
L&G has shared its unwriting guidelines with this service for the purpose of our investigation 
of the complaint. I appreciate the estate has said it has doubts over whether or not some of 
the information which was not disclosed would have made a difference to whether or not the 
policy would have been offered. The underwriting guidelines are commercially sensitive, so 
cannot be shared with the estate.  However, I have reviewed them and am satisfied that had 
Mr T declared he was drinking the equivalent of 10  20 units on most weekdays, as stated 
in the report in April 2019, and had declared hed attended a support group, L&G would have 
been unable to offer him the policy. 
Ive also considered the questions Mr T was asked about his mental health, raised blood 
pressure and cholesterol, and smoking, as well as the notes on these within the medical 
records. However, as Im already satisfied that L&G would have been unable to offer Mr T a 
policy had he disclosed the higher level of alcohol consumption and attendance of a support 
group, I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding about these other matters. 
Although Ive considered the reasons the estate has suggested for Mr T having given 
differing information to L&G compared to that provided to his GP and therapist, Im satisfied 
Mr T failed to take reasonable care to answer L&Gs questions about alcohol correctly. L&G 
has classed this misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless and Im persuaded this was fair, 
as the medical records reflected different information, and the records were very recent.  For 
L&G to take any action, there needs to have been a qualifying misrepresentation. So I need 
to identify whether or not the misrepresentation made by Mr T made a difference to L&G.
As Ive said, L&G provided evidence from its underwriters confirming, had the additional 
medical information about alcohol been declared, it wouldnt have been able to offer the 
policy. And because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
L&G treated the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless. And in these circumstances, the 
remedy available under CIDRA is for it to avoid the policy. And its not obliged to refund any 
premiums paid. L&G avoided the policy, which I think it was entitled to do, and as this means 
the policy was cancelled from the start, there is no policy against which the claim for Mr Ts accidental death can be assessed. I note that L&G has refunded the policy premiums which 
had been paid, despite it not being required to do so, and I think this shows L&G acted fairly.  
As Ive explained, Im satisfied L&G was entitled to take the action it did in the case of a 
deliberate / reckless misrepresentation, as this is in line with CIDRA. And in these particular 
circumstances, there is no requirement for L&G to pay a proportionate policy benefit, or any 
interest the estate has incurred. I wont be directing the insurer to do anything more than it 
has already done, as Ive not found that its declination of the claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman