DRN-3039989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way First Direct(a division of HSBC UK Bank plc) dealt 
with a bank transfer. They would like an apology and more compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I dont doubt the distress caused to Mr and Mrs P when First Direct transferred a 
large sum of money from their account which didnt appear in the recipient account.  
It seems the recipient bank returned the funds as the account identifier was invalid. I 
dont know why these details werent accepted as they seem to have been used 
successfully before. And, in the phone call I listened to, these details were checked 
with Mr P. But  I dont feel I have any evidence to show the fault was First Directs
Mr P asked me to listen to his first phone call with First Direct which I have done. I 
agree that Mr P made it clear he wanted to make faster payments as he didnt want 
to incur a charge. And he wasnt told he couldnt do this.  The funds were eventually 
transferred, and although not in the way Mr P wanted  no fee was charged.
Mr P said that they lost the ability to process all manner of other activities that they 
would otherwise have been capable of and lost interest on the funds until the 
transfer was sorted. But he hasnt  given us any evidence of this for me to consider.
First Direct has apologised paid Mr and Mrs P a total of £150 compensation for the 
customer service received which I think it reasonable for the inconvenience and 
distress of not receiving a call back, having to contact the bank on several occasions 
and for the confusion over the process for making the payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
