DRN-1556198
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was 16 years ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed, so I think its 
understandable that neither side still have all the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Hs data rather than hold 
onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited evidence I have.
From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it wouldve presented the 
policy as being optional, and in order to get it, Mr H would need to have actively chosen it. 
And the PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately to the cost of the mortgage, rather than 
as something that was part and parcel of the lending. Ive not seen any evidence which 
shows that Halifax significantly departed from its normal sales process here, or that it 
otherwise misled Mr H. And I can see from the details of his mortgage offer that the PPI was 
not a condition of getting his mortgage. Overall, I think its most likely that Halifax made it 
clear Mr H didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr H, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check that the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, given the policys terms, it 
looks like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. 
Mr H didnt have any benefits through work beyond the very limited statutory ones, which 
potentially left him at serious risk if he was off work sick or lost his job. I understand he had 
savings, but the PPI covered him for up to 24 months in any one claim, which would most 
likely have lasted substantially longer than his savings if he needed those savings to cover 
his full salary. It also meant he could effectively protect his savings and use them for other 
things, rather than having to sacrifice one asset to save another. Ultimately, this mortgage 
was a significant, long-term commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr H would have the 
same savings available in the many years to come, and if he fell behind on his repayments 
he couldve lost his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for him in 
protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look like Mr H was affected by any of the main things 
the PPI didnt cover, and it could have been useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And it was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr H could cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr H.  I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman