DRN-3746424
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) because his outpatient allowance was 
reduced under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has a private medical insurance policy with Aviva, provided by his employer. The 
outpatient limit on the policy was £1500 per annum. 
In March 2022, Mr G contacted Aviva to get approval for an ENT consultation with a 
specialist. Aviva agreed to cover this.
He attended the appointment with the specialist and following this, he found the total cost for 
the consultation and tests was £516. This included two lots of £96 (£192) which was the cost 
for the hearing tests. 
Alongside Mr Gs appointments for his hearing, he also had appointments for his back for 
spinal surgery. He found out that part of the outpatient limit had been used up from his 
hearing appointments and therefore there wasnt enough left to fund the treatment fully for 
his back. He was unhappy about this because he thinks Aviva should have informed him 
about the costs of his hearing appointments and made a complaint to Aviva. 
Aviva looked into the complaint and said it hadnt acted incorrectly. Mr G remained unhappy 
and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had handled Mr Gs claim correctly so it wouldnt be 
reasonable to ask Aviva to cover the cost of the hearing tests outside of the outpatient limit. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide on this complaint is whether Aviva should have done more to 
make Mr G aware of the costs involved with the hearing tests so it didnt impact his overall 
annual outpatient limit.
The outpatient limit on the policy for the year was £1,500. 
Ive listened to the two telephone call recordings provided to us in which Mr G received 
approval for the hearing appointments and in which the back appointments were also 
discussed. I understand there were other calls between Aviva and Mr G, but I will focus on 
the two main calls here as these are relevant.
Mr G called Aviva on 30 March 2022. The discussion that took place was about the hearing 
appointment, the hospital and possible consultants. Mr G said he would arrange his own 
appointment at the hospital. During the call, Aviva confirmed the cover was available for the 
initial consultation as well as the hearing test. It also confirmed that the cost of these would 
come out of the £1,500 annual outpatient limit on the policy. Any other related tests would 
also come out of this limit. Mr G and the advisor had a brief discussion about his invoices for 
his back treatment and that invoices may take time to be sent following the treatment itself. 
A second call was made by Mr G to Aviva. This was on 3 May 2022. He called to discuss 
treatment for his back but that it will be at a different hospital to the one he had his hearing 
appointments. Aviva confirmed it would provide cover for a follow-up appointment and that 
the cost of this would come out of the outpatient allowance for the year. The advisor 
informed Mr G how to keep track of his annual balance allowance and where he would find 
this information so that it could be monitored. 
Mr G asked about his hearing appointment and explained the maximum cost for a first 
consultation was £204 and for the second, it was £144. Aviva explained that the consultation 
fee would be invoiced separately to the tests that might be carried out. It also explained that 
the cost would come out of the outpatient allowance and as there were two claims running 
alongside, this would likely affect the outpatient limits and Mr G said he understood. 
Having listened to the calls and what was discussed, I think Aviva made it clear that costs of 
the treatment Mr G was receiving for his hearing as well as his back would come out of the 
£1,500 outpatient annual allowance on Mr Gs policy. It also made him aware of how to track 
the cost as well as the possible impact of the two claims running alongside each other on the 
annual limit. Mr G confirmed in the calls that he understood. 
I appreciate Mr Gs comments that had he been informed of the cost of the hearing test; he 
may have sought treatment elsewhere. However, this isnt information Aviva could have 
provided in the calls Mr G had and it was up to him to find out this information from the 
consultant as costs can vary between consultants.
Having reviewed all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Aviva handled Mr Gs 
claims incorrectly or provided incorrect advice. As such, I dont think its reasonable for Aviva 
to cover the cost of the hearing tests outside of the policy outpatient limit. 
I note there is a dispute regarding the cost and invoice paid by Aviva for a hearing test. Mr G 
says he didnt have this test and Aviva should not have paid this. I can see weve received 
confirmation from Aviva which shows a breakdown of the invoices paid and which were sent 
to it by Mr Gs consultant. If there is a dispute, Mr G should contact the consultant directly 
and seek confirmation of the treatment he had. As far as I can see, Aviva has paid for the 
costs sent to it by the consultant and this is what it is required to do. There was some 
confusion on how the tests were recorded initially by Aviva, but this has been corrected and 
show that there were two tests  both for Mr Gs hearing  costing £96 each which have now 
been recorded as such. Its not our role to investigate what happened between Mr G and the 
consultant but to see whether Aviva did what it should have done. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva handled Mr Gs claims in line with 
whats expected. And I dont think it treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I 
dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman