DRN-3485844
The complaint
Miss S complains about the value her 10-year with-profits bond from Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited achieved when it matured. 
What happened
Miss S complained in November 2021, after receiving an update about the maturity value 
that her bond was set to achieve. I understand that the bond matured in February 2022 for 
around £500 more than the update had apparently said Miss S could expect to receive. 
Scottish Friendlys response to Miss Ss complaint explained how the final value of the bond 
was a combination of a guaranteed amount, and a final bonus. They separately apologised 
for some poor contact in response to Miss Ss concerns, and offered to pay her £75 in 
compensation for that. 
Miss S brought her complaint to us, still upset that she hadnt got more when her bond had 
matured. Our investigator looked at the terms for the bond, as they would have appeared 
when Miss S signed up to it. Our investigator noted the bond had worked as the terms said it 
would, so she felt Scottish Friendly didnt need to do anything to change what it had paid 
Miss S. Our investigator also felt the £75 offered by Scottish Friendly did enough to 
acknowledge the impact their contact delays had on Miss S.
Miss S didnt feel this was suitable to resolve her complaint, so its to me for a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I find theres nothing further needed 
from Scottish Friendly to put right the issues Miss S seems to have with her bond. 
Scottish Friendly have sent us copies of the details that would have been provided in 2011, 
when Miss S seems to have taken this bond out. I note that the key facts leaflet for the 
bond said that Scottish Friendly offered no advice in relation to the plan.
That limits the scope of what Id expect from Scottish Friendly. They didnt need to consider 
whether there were other options that Miss S could be investing in. They simply need to 
have done what their terms said they would do, when offering this product to her. 
I see the terms explained that there was a guaranteed value to this bond. Miss S has 
received about £800 more than that amount. So the guaranteed value has been provided. 
The final value of the bond would also include bonuses, reflecting the performance of the 
investment after fees had been deducted. That appears to have happened too. 
Miss S has commented that she could have got a higher return by investing in something 
else. Its possible. Equally, she could have got less. The nature of investments is that their 
growth typically cant be known ahead of time. And as Ive already noted, Scottish Friendly 
dont look to have been providing advice here. They were selling a product. They didnt need 
to tell Miss S that she might want to buy something else instead. 
I appreciate Miss S was unhappy with the responses she had when she raised her 
complaints with Scottish Friendly. But I find their eventual response did a reasonable job of 
explaining the product theyd provided and how it worked. Given there dont appear to have 
been any mistakes in the operation of the bond, that explanation  together with the apology 
and £75 compensation for the poor complaint handling  was enough when trying to 
reassure Miss S. 
I appreciate Miss S still feels something untoward has happened here. But I cant see that it 
has. The bond worked as advertised. Its paid Miss S more than it was guaranteed to pay, 
and  as it happens  more than she put into it over the years. Theres nothing further 
Scottish Friendly need to do to resolve the issue Miss S raised. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman