DRN-2565253
The complaint
Mr B and Ms J complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly 
and unreasonably by claiming an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their 
mortgage early after their application to borrow more was declined. They want the ERC 
refunded.
What happened
Mr B and Ms J took out a mortgage product with Halifax without advice, which if repaid early 
meant that theyd have to pay an ERC. Mr B and Ms J wanted to transfer (port) the 
mortgage product to a new property and borrow more money to buy the new property. 
Halifax refused to lend the extra money, though it considered extra information provided in 
support of the application, as it was concerned about affordability. 
Mr B and Ms J decided to get a mortgage elsewhere and repaid the mortgage early. Halifax 
claimed the ERC. Mr B and Ms J paid it but felt that it was unfair as Halifax had refused to 
lend them what they wanted to borrow.
Mr B and Ms J complained to Halifax. It said that any application to borrow was subject to 
application and there wasnt ever a guarantee that a loan would be offered. The decision in 
principle warned that no binding legal agreements should be entered into without a full 
mortgage offer. Halifax said that it had considered the application but wasnt satisfied that it 
was affordable and it had the right to refuse to lend more money. 
Halifax said that the ERC had been due under the terms of the mortgage offer accepted by 
Mr B and Ms J when they took out the product; it pointed out that the offer warned customers 
if they applied to borrow more money, such applications would be assessed under the 
lending policies in time at that time.
Mr B and Ms J complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He noted that there hadnt been any guarantee of a successful application and 
Mr Bs financial arrangements were based on an informal arrangement with a family 
business. The investigator said this service wouldnt compel a lender to offer a loan but 
Halifaxs concerns about income were reasonable. The investigator said Mr B and Ms J 
chose to go ahead with a new lender knowing about the ERC and it wouldnt be reasonable 
to ask Halifax to refund it.
Mr B and Ms J disagreed. They felt that they had complied with Halifaxs lending policies and 
they were being discriminated against. Mr B disputed the informal label used by the 
investigator and felt strongly the loan shouldve been given. They sent more evidence. The 
investigator didnt change his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr B and Ms J are unhappy that Halifax wouldnt lend the extra money they sought, 
their point is that having refused to lend as asked, it shouldnt charge them an ERC. As 
lenders are required to ensure loans are affordable and are able to use their commercial 
judgement about to whom to lend and on what basis, this service wouldnt generally interfere 
with decisions to not lend if the lending policies have been applied fairly and reasonably. 
Having reviewed the evidence available to me, I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining to lend the extra money. While Mr B and Ms J say that they met the terms of the 
lending policies, they didnt as affordability is critical. The concerns Halifax set out about 
affordability were based on logical reasons, particularly given the nature of the source of 
Mr Bs income and the information he gave about the position. While Mr B disputes the 
informal label, from the information he gave Halifax and the history, his income and 
position could be changed at will and the amount to be borrowed was large. Halifax was 
entitled to decline the application.
ERCs are only lawful if set out clearly to the borrower in advance and are a genuine pre-
estimate of the loss the lender will suffer if the mortgage is repaid early. Mr B and Ms J 
accept that they agreed to the ERC when they took out the mortgage and havent challenged 
the lawfulness of the fee. Their argument centres on their belief that Halifax didnt act fairly 
or reasonably in claiming the ERC in the circumstances.
It was Mr B and Ms Js choice to repay the mortgage early, rather than port the mortgage 
and borrow more elsewhere or find a cheaper property. They were aware of the ERC, both 
from the mortgage offer and the redemption statement. Mr B and Ms J argue that having 
paid a deposit to reserve the property, they had to proceed or risk losing the property and 
the deposit. But it was still their choice to proceed, knowing the ERC would be due. The 
decision in principle warned them not to enter into any legal agreements without a full 
mortgage offer, and the mortgage offer they accepted previously for the existing product 
made it clear any applications to borrow more money would be assessed  there was no 
guarantee of a loan from Halifax.
In all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Halifax to 
refund an ERC to which it was legally entitled when it wasnt at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms J to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman