DRN-3219726
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2010 
by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he was told he must open an URCA to qualify for a mortgage with Halifax, so 
he did so. But he says that was the only reason he took out the URCA and so it was mis-
sold to him.
Halifax says it gave Mr C information about the URCA and he chose to take it out based on 
that. Halifax says it did not tell Mr C he had to have an URCA to get a mortgage.
Mr C says in his submissions to this service that he knew that fee free accounts were 
available, and he did use the benefits of the URCA extensively. So, in my view, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr C knew he had a choice whether to open an URCA and he 
chose to do so based on the information he was given about the product, and the URCA was 
suitable for him as he could use the benefits.
The central issue here is whether he was misled by Halifax about needing to have the URCA 
to get a mortgage.
I think its more likely than not that he wasnt misled, and I say that for the following reasons.
Mortgages were widely available and advertised from other banks and financial institutions 
so I think that if hed been told he had to take out a fee paying account to get a mortgage 
and he didnt want one, he would have gone elsewhere and been able to find a mortgage 
without a fee-paying account.
Halifax has also provided a copy of the mortgage application he signed shortly after opening 
the URCA and which I think its more likely than not he would read carefully due to the size 
of the transaction he was undertaking. The application form does say prominently that he 
must have a current account with Halifax, but it can either be a fee free account or an URCA. 
And when he read this, I think its more likely than not he would have closed the URCA if he 
didnt want it.
So, in my view I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt do anything wrong in the 
sale of the URCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman