DRN-2972254
The complaint
 Mr G complains about Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) cancelling his motor insurance policy 
because they said he hadnt told them about previously having insurance cancelled.
Zenith uses agents to administer the policy, references to Zenith in this decision include 
those agents.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with Zenith from 2017, which he renewed in 2018 and 
2019. Shortly before his renewal date in November 2019, Zenith contacted him to say that 
they had cancelled the policy because they had become aware of information indicating that 
Mr G previously had insurance cancelled but hadnt declared the cancellations. Zenith 
concluded that Mr G had deliberately misrepresented answers he had given to questions 
about previous cancellations. As they thought Mr G had made deliberate misrepresentations, 
Zenith retained the policy premium of £239 on cancellation.
Mr G was unhappy at his policy being cancelled and complained to Zenith. In their final 
response letter of February 2020 Zenith didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were 
unable to provide details of Mr Gs previous cancellation history and he should contact his 
previous insurers to establish his cancellation history. In response to a question from Mr G, 
Zenith did confirm that the cancellation wasnt due to the cancellation of a policy held by a 
family member due to non-payment of premiums.
Mr G then complained to this service. He was unhappy at his policy being cancelled by 
Zenith, as theyd insured him since 2017. He was also unhappy at not being provided with 
details of the previous cancellations that Zenith said he hadnt told them about, so he wasnt 
able to resolve the matter. Mr G told us he wasnt aware of any previous cancellations.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Zenith had acted fairly. 
Based on information provided by Zenith on the previous cancellations she thought Zenith 
were entitled to cancel Mr Gs policy. The investigator said that Mr G could make a data 
subject access request (DSAR) to access the information held about the previous 
cancellations on a national database. 
Mr G then provided information he obtained through a DSAR. The investigator then upheld 
Mr Gs complaint, concluding that Zenith hadnt acted fairly. She concluded that Zenith 
hadnt provided enough evidence that Mr G knew of the other policies held under his name 
and that she wasnt persuaded that Mr G knew about cancellations of other policies held 
under his name. The investigator concluded that Mr G hadnt made a misrepresentation and 
had answered the question about previous cancellations to the best of his knowledge.
 
The investigator said that Zenith should remove the record of their cancellation from internal 
and external databases, as well as correcting any related information already shared. The 
investigator also concluded that Zenith hadnt acted fairly in retaining Mr Gs premium and 
should return it to him, together with £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. 
Zenith disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They maintained their right to cancel the policy based on the information they had 
about policy cancellations in Mr Gs name. They also disagreed that Mr G hadnt made a 
qualifying misrepresentation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The key parts of Mr Gs complaint are that Zenith shouldnt have cancelled his policy, that 
he hadnt been given enough information on the previous cancellations and that he wasnt 
aware of the cancellations. He is also unhappy at the impact that the situation has had on 
him, including having also had other insurance cancelled.
Zenith cancelled Mr Gs policy because they considered Mr G hadnt told them about 
previous cancellations and voidances of insurance. Zenith considered this to be a 
misrepresentation. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out the considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Having considered the information Zenith had from the national database about other 
cancellations and voidances, I can understand why they cancelled Mr Gs policy and 
considered Mr G had made a deliberate misrepresentation under CIDRA. That is, Mr G knew 
about the cancellations and voidances but chose not to tell Zenith. I can also see that at the 
time of cancellation Zenith advised Mr G (through his broker) that under the terms of their 
access to the national database on which the cancellations and voidances were recorded, 
they werent able to provide further details directly to Mr G. But Zenith did say that Mr G 
could make a DSAR to access the details and provided a link through which Mr G could 
make the request.
But having made his DSAR following the investigators initial view, our investigator re-
opened the complaint and issued a second view. So, Ive gone on to consider the further 
complaint raised by Mr G after he obtained the results of his DSAR.
Whats clear from the evidence provided by Zenith is that there are cancellations and 
voidances recorded on the national database against Mr G. As they were made by other 
insurers and therefore fall outside the scope of this case, Im not able to consider them in 
detail and whether they have been recorded appropriately. Its also clear that they didnt 
appear on the DSAR made by Mr G, a copy of which he provided to us  even though there 
are other entries that Mr G recognised other than Zeniths cancellation. There may be 
several reasons why this was the case and Ive considered what they may be. Mr G has said 
that he believes another party may have used his details to obtain insurance without his 
knowledge, for example using his name but with other details changed. Zenith have also 
provided their views on the issue. On balance, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to conclude that Mr G was aware of other insurances that may have been taken 
out in his name.
Having come to that conclusion, then it follows that if Mr G wasnt aware then he didnt make 
a misrepresentation when he didnt declare any cancellations or voidances. From that, Ive 
gone on to conclude that Zenith didnt act fairly when they cancelled Mr Gs policy (and 
retained his premiums). So, to put things right, Zenith should remove the record of the 
cancellation from both internal and external databases and correct any information about the 
cancellation already shared. They should also refund Mr Gs premium (£239). Mr G told us 
that he has obtained alternative insurance with another provider, so I dont think that his 
policy with Zenith should be reinstated.
However, while removing the record of Zeniths cancellation would amend the national 
database record of it, that wouldnt affect the other cancellations and voidances that are 
recorded against Mr G. They were recorded by other insurers and fall outside the scope of 
this complaint. Our remit also doesnt extend to the national database. Our investigator 
suggested alternative ways that Mr G could seek to find out the details of these other 
cancellations and voidances, should he wish to challenge them.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. Mr G told us about the stress that the 
cancellation and subsequently pursuing his complaints has caused him, and that he has also 
had another insurance policy cancelled (although its not clear whether this is related to 
Zeniths cancellation of his policy). Taking all the factors into account I think £250 is 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr G.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I require Zenith Insurance plc to:
Remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases and 
correct any information about the cancellation already shared.
Refund Mr Gs premium (£239).
Pay Mr G £250 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman