DRN-1726811
Complaint
Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr S took out in 2004. It was added to his 
account when he called to activate his card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
In March 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained why I 
thought the PPI had been mis-sold. Below is an extract of what I said:
I dont think Capital One gave Mr S clear enough information about the policy when 
he agreed to take it out.
Capital One has referred us to a call script that they say was in use at the time Mr S called to 
activate his card. The cover is introduced as cover for disability, critical illness, redundancy, 
business failure and death. Mr S has told us he had two jobs at the time he took out the PPI. 
And from looking at the terms of the policy, he would have had to be made redundant from 
both jobs and without work to be able to claim for unemployment.
I think this would have mattered to Mr S because from the information given to him at the 
time, I think it was reasonable for Mr S to have thought the policy would have covered him 
if he had been made redundant from either one of his jobs - and that wasnt the case. And 
I think the likelihood of him being able to claim under the unemployment section of the 
policy was hugely reduced by his employment situation. Had he known this I dont think he 
wouldve thought the PPI was right for him and I dont think he would have bought the policy.
So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what Capital One did wrong
Capital One responded but didnt have anything further to add. Mr S responded and wanted 
to reiterate that he hadnt had anything explained to him and wasnt sent/told about any of 
the terms or conditions.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr S says. Capital One say the call script they have provided would 
have been followed and he would have been sent the terms and conditions following the call. 
I dont know what Mr S was told on the call or sent after. But in any event as set out above, 
even if they had followed the call script and sent him the documentation, I still dont think 
Capital One gave him clear enough information. So it doesnt change my decision. As Ive not received any further evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
above and in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Capital One should find out how much Mr S would have owed when his credit card 
account was closed if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any 
charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when the account 
was closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. If Mr S made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what he got for the claim from the 
amount it owes him. 
B. Capital One should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have 
owed when his account closed until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. If  when Capital One works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
S wouldve owed Capital One something on his credit card. The interest rate should 8% a 
year.
D. Capital One can deduct the amount they paid to Mr S for commission refund. 
E. Capital One should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital 
One must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S complaint. And Capital One (Europe) plc 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman