DRN-3772530
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr S had a student account with Santander, opened in 2018. It had an overdraft limit of 
£2,000. In February 2022, Santander defaulted the account with the balance £1,975.74. The 
last credit paid in was in May 2021. The debt was passed to a debt collection agency (DCA).
Mr S complained. He said he hadnt received any letters from Santander about his account 
and the first he knew about it was when the DCA contacted him. He had moved to a new 
address and letters must have gone to his old address. He said he had visited a branch of 
Santander and advised them of his change of address. He was about to graduate and the 
default on his credit record meant that it would affect his job prospects and ability to rent 
accommodation.
Santander said theyd sent a number of letters to Mr S but these may have gone to his old 
address - which was what they held in their records. But they said there was no mistake on 
their part  and they declined Mr S complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander acted reasonably. 
Santander had made a commercial decision to close Mr S account and gave him two 
months notice of doing so. This was in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  
Santanders records showed that Mr S advised them of a change of address in April 2022; 
they had no record of him visiting a branch to change his address before that time. 
Santander told us that the account had been dormant since May 2021, with no credits to it 
since then.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S advised Santander of his change of address in April 2022, and before 
that he advised a change of address in July 2019. Mr S argues that he didnt get any of 
Santanders letters as hed moved and Santander didnt change his address in their records.
Mr S says he visited a branch to change his address. We asked Santander about that and 
they found no record of such a visit. So, unfortunately, the fact is that there isnt a record of a 
visit or a change of address.
I can see that Mr S had a student account since September 2018 and had used it up until 
May 2021  when the balance was £1,975.74 debit. And then  all credit and debits to the 
account stopped and it became dormant. So, I can appreciate why Santander then became 
concerned. I can see they wrote many letters to Mr S at the address they held on file  which 
Mr S argues was his old address. But  thats all Santander are required to do:  to write to a 
customer at the address they have on file. Its a customers responsibility to advise a firm of 
any change in address or contact details  which is reasonable.
I can see that Santander wrote to Mr S many times between July 2021 and November 2021 
 there were 13 letters. These asked him to pay in or get in touch. I can then see they wrote 
to Mr S on 4 November 2021. The letter said they wanted to see a credit to his account of at 
least £20 in the next ten days, or banking facilities and the overdraft would be removed. I 
can then see that Mr S called Santander on 20 November 2021  he wanted to ensure the 
account was still designated as a student account. Ive thought about this - and wonder if Mr 
S called Santander in response to receiving the letter.  But I cant be sure if that is a fair 
assumption or not. But in any case, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr S wouldve 
known about the balance of his account as it then was  -  and therefore his situation when he 
called Santander at that time.
I can then see that Santander sent a further 19 letters to Mr S between November 2021 and 
March 2022. These were also sent to the address Santander had in their records.
No credits were paid in and Santander defaulted the account in February 2022. Mr S argues 
that he had a contract with Santander as he had a student account  with an overdraft of 
£2,000. Therefore, he says he was entitled to have that in place all the time he was a 
student. Ive thought about his argument here. Santanders Key Facts document for student 
accounts say The account must be used as your main or primary current accountYour 
main form of funding, for example your student loan, grants, parental contribution, and/or 
income from any employment, must be paid into it. If you dont regularly pay in your main 
form of funding, we may discontinue some of the services offered on your account or close 
your account.
And as Mr S hadnt paid any money in since May 2021, I think Santander were entitled to 
close his account and default it. That was in line with the terms of the account. I dont think 
its reasonable for Mr S to believe he could maintain an overdraft debt of £1,974 without 
paying in something towards it  and that hadnt happened since May 2021.
I appreciate that the default has come as a shock to Mr S and that it may affect him in the 
way he says. But having looked at the evidence here, I think Santander have acted 
reasonably and therefore Im not asking them to do anything. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman