DRN-3879746
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as "George 
Banco".com) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mrs P with a guarantor loan for £5,000.00 in January 2018. This 
loan had an APR of 55.04% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £7,647.84, including interest, fees and charges of £2,647.84,  was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just under £320.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs P's complaint and she thought George Banco hadn't 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs P. So she didn't think that Mrs P's complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her case.
My provisional decision of 13 December 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 13 December 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
I then explained that George Banco needed to make sure it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks 
to be able to understand whether Mrs P could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact 
that George Banco may also have been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not 
alter or dilute this obligation in any way.
I set out that our website explains what we typically think about when deciding whether a 
lender's checks were proportionate. Generally, we think it's reasonable for a lender's checks 
to be less thorough - in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it 
- in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower's income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we'd expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didn't continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before it 
agreed to lend to Mrs P. The results of which showed that Mrs P had previously had 
significant difficulties repaying credit. Furthermore, George Banco's own checks showed 
that, at best, the payments to this loan were taking Mrs P right towards the margin of her 
income. And this was with the use of estimated expenditure in circumstances where Mrs P's 
previous difficulties with credit suggested she fell outside the profile of the average borrower 
and the monthly payments to this loan was taking up a significant portion of her monthly 
income.
This left me persuaded by what Mrs P had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. I acknowledged that while it was possible Mrs P's difficulties reflected 
her choices rather than financial difficulty, I added that my experience of these types of 
cases suggested this was unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments 
from George Banco, I was persuaded to accept Mrs P's version of events.
As this was the case, I was satisfied that Mrs P's existing financial position meant that she 
was unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty 
or borrowing further. And I was therefore minded to conclude that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldn't 
have provided this loan to Mrs P. As George Banco provided Mrs P with this loan, 
notwithstanding this, this left me minded to conclude that it didn't act fairly and reasonably 
towards her.
Mrs P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan she shouldn't have 
been provided with. So I was satisfied that Mrs P lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and this left me intending to issue a final decision that upheld Mrs Ps complaint.
I then went on to set out a method of calculating compensation which I thought addressed 
George Bancos shortcomings and Mrs Ps resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
George Banco confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it didnt provide 
anything further for me to consider.
Mrs P confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and that she had nothing further 
to add either.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. And in particular Im 
pleased to see that my findings have been accepted. 
As the parties have agreed with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and in it I 
set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mrs Ps complaint, Ive not been persuaded 
to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mrs Ps complaint. And I remain satisfied that 
George Banco needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what George Banco now needs to do to put things right for Mrs P
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint for George Banco to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs P actually paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mrs P to the date of settlement;removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs P's credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 13 December 2022, Im 
upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited need to put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman