DRN-3877030
The complaint
Miss F and Mr P have complained about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
While Miss F was in the loft, she put her foot through the ceiling below. So, she contacted 
esure to make a claim. Miss F and Mr P also arranged for the ceiling to be repaired. A few 
days later, esure sent a surveyor to view the damage. esure agreed to settle the claim as 
accidental damage and said it would settle the claim at the amount it would have cost it to do 
the work.
Miss F and Mr P complained to esure because they said the settlement wasnt enough to 
pay for the work. When esure replied, it said it had looked at the costs provided by Miss F 
and Mr P and these were assessed to be excessive, so it had decided its own costs would 
be used.
When Miss F and Mr P complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said 
esure had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Miss F and Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss F and Mr P have said they dont think esure offered a fair settlement for their claim. The 
policy said:
Where it is possible to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings but You do not agree with 
these settlement options, We will pay You cash based on the rebuild, replacement or repair 
cost to Us.
When Miss F and Mr P raised the claim, they had already arranged for the repair work to be 
carried out. esure told Miss F and Mr P about the risks around having the work carried out 
before a surveyor could visit, including that this could prejudice the claim. esure also tried to 
find a surveyor who could visit the following day, but this wasnt possible to arrange. So, 
esure said it would attempt a desktop assessment. However, it was decided that a surveyor 
would still need to visit, which a surveyor did four days after the claim was raised. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think esure assessed the claim promptly and explained potential 
issues with Miss F and Mr P carrying out the work before the surveyor visited. Im aware of 
Mr Ps health issues and that he told esure and its surveyor about this. Im also aware Miss 
F has said they had consistently said they wanted esure to do the work. I listened to the 
phone calls to esure and didnt hear any discussion of this before the surveyor visited or in a 
follow-up call to esure shortly after the surveyor visited, in which Mr P told esure the work 
was nearly done. 
Miss F and Mr P arranged for the work to be carried out by their own builder. I havent seen 
anything that persuades me esure should settle the claim at the cost to Miss F and Mr P. I 
think it was fair for esure to settle the claim at its own cost to do the work. Im aware this was 
less than it cost Miss F and Mr P to do the work, but it isnt unusual for insurers to be able to 
carry out work at a lower amount than a policyholder would be able to do so. Having 
carefully considered what happened, I dont uphold this complaint or require esure to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman