DRN-3703347
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
Mr P fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam which led him to making three payments totalling 
£5,131 using his Visa debit card  linked to his Barclays current account  on 27 January 
2022. The payments were made to a legitimate crypto exchange Ill call M before being 
moved to the wallet he held with the scammers and Mr P ultimately lost access to his 
money. 
Mr P reported the scam to Barclays but it didnt receive enough information from him. It 
issued a final response requesting that Mr P contacts it with further information so that it 
could consider his chargeback options. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this office.  
One of our Investigators didnt think chargeback was an option for Mr P because he paid M 
who provided the service he asked it to provide. Our investigator felt the third payment of 
£3,000 in the sequence was sufficiently unusual for Barclays to have intervened and he 
thought a warning would have made a difference. He also suggested that Barclays pay 
interest of 8% simple per year. Our Investigator also felt Mr P should bear some 
responsibility for his loss and suggested Barclays reduce it by 20%. Mr P agreed but 
Barclays didnt. It provided further evidence to show that the third payment in the sequence 
was in fact £261, not £3,000. Our Investigator changed his opinion and suggested that 
Barclays should refund the final payment of £261 along with interest and a reduction for 
contributory negligence. 
Barclays agreed but Mr P didnt, he felt Barclays should have done more to prevent the loss. 
He asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. It has therefore been passed to me 
for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with out Investigators conclusions for largely the same reasons.
I am satisfied that Mr P authorised the payments in question here. This means that although 
Mr P was the victim of a scam, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied that there were triggers here. I dont think the overall amounts Mr P paid were 
all that unusual given that hed previously made an undisputed payment of £4,610 within 
three months of the scam payments. This also doesnt appear to be Mr Ps main bank 
account as he usually transfers money in before making payments out. So it wasnt unusual 
for Mr P to pay money into his account before making the disputed payments. But I agree 
with our Investigator that by the third payment on 27 January 2022, the normal operation of 
Mr Ps account had changed enough for Barclays to have intervened and spoken with him. It 
was the third payment to M on the same day and this wasnt how Mr P usually managed his 
account. It is the pattern of payments, rather than the amounts involved that I consider to 
have been unusual for Mr P. If it had intervened, Barclays would have likely uncovered the 
scam and prevented the third payment from being sent  which in this case was the payment 
of £261. 
Ive not seen that Barclays contacted Mr P, so I think it was a missed opportunity to 
intervene and Barclays agrees it could have done more to prevent the scam. 
Our Investigator suggested that Mr P should bear some responsibility for his loss as he 
didnt carry out any due diligence checks prior to investing with the scammer. I think this is 
fair in the circumstances and I think a 20% reduction is fair. 
Mr P doesnt seem to dispute that chargeback wasnt an option for him but for completeness, 
M provided the service Mr P requested it to provide  which was to convert his £sterling to 
crypto and send it to the wallet of his choice. Mr Ps dispute is with the scammer but he 
didnt pay them directly, so any attempt at chargeback would have likely failed. Ive not seen 
that Mr P got back in touch with Barclays with the additional information it needed so that it 
could consider chargeback claims further but even if he had, I dont think this would have 
made a difference for the reasons Ive explained. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr P and he will understandably feel aggrieved 
about his loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold Barclays 
liable for all of it.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and Barclays should refund Mr P the third 
payment of £261. It should also pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was paid to 
the date of settlement. 
Barclays should also reduce the overall settlement by 20% for contributory negligence. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman