DRN-3212778
The complaint
Mr C1, Mr C2 and Mrs T complain about difficulties contacting Shawbrook Bank Limited for 
the speak with call required to complete their commercial mortgage. Mr C1 has managed 
the complaint throughout. He asks for £100 compensation for the stress, emotional distress 
and inconvenience caused.
What happened
In mid-2020 Mr C1, Mr C2 and Mrs T applied to Shawbrook via a broker for a commercial 
mortgage. Shawbrook made a mortgage offer. One of the conditions was that each borrower 
spoke to Shawbrook before completion (a speak with call).
Mr C1 tried to complete the speak with call in December 2020. He says he was put on hold 
before the line cut off. He called back and was told someone would call him back that 
afternoon, but this didnt happen until the next day. When Mr C1 tried to contact Shawbrook 
by email he received an out of office response suggesting he contact another person, which 
also resulted in an out of office response. 
Shawbrook said transferring calls was taking longer at that time due to staff working 
remotely. Shawbrook said Mr C1 was on hold for 7 minutes, which it didnt consider to be 
excessive given the circumstances, and it had called Mr C1 back about 24 hours later, within 
its usual timescales. 
Shawbrook apologised for the inconvenience caused by its out of office email messages and 
said it had revised the process in light of Mr C1s comments. 
Our investigator said there had been technical difficulties with the call, and issues related to 
staff working from home during the Covid-19 pandemic. This had caused some 
inconvenience. However, Shawbrook had called back within its usual timescales and 
apologised for the inconvenience. The investigator said it didnt need to do more.
Mr C1, Mr C2 and Mrs T didnt agree. Mr C1 says he was promised a call back that 
afternoon which didnt materialise. He said they were worried about the mortgage and their 
personal financial situation. Mr C1 said they still felt Shawbrook was callous and 
unreasonably used the Covid-19 situation as an excuse for poor service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr C1s frustration. He experienced problems completing the speak with 
call, which hed expected to be straightforward. Theres nothing to suggest the problems 
with the call affected the mortgage completing. But it was inconvenient for Mr C1 to be on 
hold and then have to call back after the call was cut off. 
Ive listened to the call where Mr C1 says he was promised a call back that afternoon and I 
can understand why he says this. The call handler asked if he was free that afternoon for 
someone to call back. Unfortunately, that wasnt possible. Shawbrook called back the next 
day and completed the speak with call.
Shawbrook has accepted that the out of office responses Mr C1 received werent 
professional and said its changed its process for dealing with emails when the recipient isnt 
available. It apologised for the inconvenience caused to Mr C1.
Mr C1 feels strongly that the service he experienced was poor. He doesnt think its right for 
Shawbrook to use the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse for this. In fairness though, I must 
take into account the wider circumstances at that time. Shawbrook accepts its service was 
affected by staff working remotely and apologised for inconvenience caused to Mr C1. I dont 
think its fair to say it should have been able to operate at all times as if its staff were working 
as normal in the office  I think its reasonable to expect some inconvenience while its staff 
were having to work differently. Ive also taken into account that Shawbrook called Mr C1 the 
following day to complete the speak with call, and completion of the mortgage wasnt 
delayed. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Shawbrook to pay 
compensation or take further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mr C and 
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman