DRN-2349486
The complaint
Mr W complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. He says the car broke down and the cost of repairs were greater than the value of 
the car.
Mr W is represented by Mrs W, but for the purpose of this decision I have referred to Mr W 
throughout.
What happened
Mr W entered a HPA with Motonovo in November 2018 to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was around eight years old and had been driven around 108,500 miles.
In May 2020 Mr W contacted Motonovo to explain that the car had broken down and it was 
identified that the timing chain had failed. He said the issue wasnt due to wear and tear and 
that when he acquired the car he was told that he wouldnt need to replace the timing chain. 
He says that he has looked online and has seen reports of this issue happing on other cars 
the same model as his (although his hadnt been subject to a recall). Mr W says that the car 
wasnt fit for purpose at the point of supply.
Mr W says the cost of repairs were greater than the value of the car and he has continued to 
make payments for a car that isnt roadworthy.
Motonovo issued its final response to Mr Ws complaint in June 2020. It said Mr W raised a 
complaint about the quality of the car on 22 May 2020 and it was confirmed that there had 
been no other issue up to the timing chain failure. Motonovo said that given the time that had 
passed since the start of the HPA and when the issue was raised and that the timing chain 
was a wear and tear item, it would need further evidence to show that the issue was present 
or developing at the point of supply. It suggested an inspection report was provided but says 
it was told this couldnt happen as the car was overseas (it said it should have been informed 
if the car was to be taken overseas). Motonovo didnt uphold this complaint as it said there 
wasnt evidence to show the issue with the timing chain was caused by a fault that was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that given the age and mileage of 
the car at acquisition and the time Mr W had the car and distance he travelled he couldnt 
say that the issues werent due to wear and tear. Given this he didnt think Motonovo was 
wrong to ask for evidence to show there was a fault present at the point of supply and based 
on the evidence he had seen he didnt think he had enough to uphold this complaint.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he was told the timing chain 
wouldnt need to be replaced. He also said that given he was provided finance for four years 
it was reasonable to expect the car to last at least for that duration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W acquired a used car through a HPA with Motonovo. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Motonovo can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances.
Mr Ws car broke down and I have seen a diagnostic report dated end April 2020. Mr W has 
explained the cause was identified as being the timing chain. I can appreciate this would 
have been upsetting and understand why he didnt go ahead with the repairs given his 
comments that the cost was higher than the value of the car. However, in order to hold 
Motonovo liable for the repair costs, I would have to be satisfied that the timing chain failed 
due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable.
Mr W was able to drive the car for around a year and a half and covered around 10,000 
miles before the issue occurred. Had the fault been present at the point of supply I would 
have expected it to have become apparent a lot sooner than this. I have also considered the 
age and mileage at the point of acquisition and given this I think it reasonable to accept the 
car would have suffered some wear and tear. With used cars issues can occur, even major 
issues, shortly after acquisition even if they werent present or developing at the point of 
supply and in this case Mr W had been able to drive the car for over a year. Motonovo asked 
for an inspection report to be carried out to show there was an issue at the point of supply 
and given when the car broke down I find this reasonable. Without further evidence I do not 
find I can say the reason the car failed was due to a fault that was present or developing at 
the point of supply rather than wear and tear.
I understand the point that has been made about finance being provided for four years and 
the car failing within that period. However, I do not find that this means Motonovo was wrong 
to provide the finance or that I can say further warnings should have been given. Based on 
the evidence I have nothing to show that an issue with the timing chain was known to exist at 
acquisition. There was no reason for the parties to expect this problem to occur through the 
term of the agreement. However, with older higher mileage cars, it is possible that parts can 
fail and in this case I find it more likely than not that this has happened due to general wear 
and tear. 
I have taken into consideration the comments Mr W has said were made by the dealer about 
not needing to replace the timing chain. While Motonovo can be held liable if a 
misrepresentation is made by the dealer when arranging the finance, I do not find that I have 
enough to say this happened in this case. For a misrepresentation to have happened a false 
statement of fact needs to have been given and this needs to have induced the consumer 
into the agreement. In this case I note the comments Mr W says the dealer made about the 
timing chain, but I have no further evidence as to what exactly was said or the context of 
this. I also have nothing to suggest that this acted as an inducement for Mr W to enter the 
agreement. So, I do not find that I have enough to say a misrepresentation occurred.
I also note Mr Ws comments that the issue of timing chain failures is mentioned on the 
internet and about timing chains lasting the lifetime of a car. However, parts of a car are 
subject to wear and tear and the lifespan will depend on factors such as how the car has 
been maintained and driven. Given the age and mileage of the car when the issue with the 
timing chain occurred I do not find I can say the timing chain wasnt sufficiently durable or 
that this issue meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of acquisition. Because 
of this I do not find I can uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against FirstRand Bank Limited 
trading as Motonovo Finance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman