DRN-4374063
Complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties so Ill only summarise the facts 
briefly here. In January 2015, Mrs F invested £10,000 in a bond with a one-year term. It 
operated as expected  interest payments were received, and it was redeemed on maturity 
in early 2016. Persuaded that she was dealing with a legitimate company, she made a 
further investment of £25,000 from a joint account. That payment has been considered 
under separate cover. Mrs F also has a Santander account in her own name. From that 
account, she made several payments in connection with this investment opportunity. In total, 
she transferred a little under £130,000.
In June 2019, she received a letter saying that insolvency proceedings had begun and that 
the company was to be liquidated. The details of that insolvency process were far from 
straightforward and involved a huge number of creditors and multiple interconnecting 
companies. Mrs F considered that the actions of the company were fraudulent. She notified 
Santander and asked that it reimburse her. It looked into things but concluded that she 
hadnt fallen victim to a scam. Instead, she had a private civil dispute with the company 
shed invested with.
She referred the case to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. 
She said that the evidence suggests that Mrs F didnt fall victim to a scam but was simply 
unfortunate to invest in a company that failed. She added that, even if she found that there 
was evidence to show otherwise, she wasnt persuaded that Santander could be considered 
responsible for failing to stop the payment because it couldnt realistically have spotted any 
potential risks with the company she was investing in.
Mrs F disagreed with the Investigators view. Shes argued that the bank ought to have 
spotted that the payee in this case had a subtly different name to the company she believed 
she was paying. She thinks the bank ought to have picked up on that discrepancy and 
warned her about it. She also pointed out that this was an investment in an unregulated 
bond. The company marketing these bonds to her was legally required to be authorised by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The bank couldve warned her that, if the company 
was offering investments without authorisation, this was likely to be a scam.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that Mrs F is 
generally liable for payments that shes authorised. Theres no dispute here that she 
authorised these payments to the company and so she is liable at first instance. However, 
that isnt the end of the story. Good industry practice required that Santander be on the 
lookout for account activity that was unusual or out of character such that it might indicate 
that its customer was at risk of financial harm due to fraud. On identifying such activity, Id 
expect it to take proportionate steps to protect its customer from that risk  for example, I 
might expect it to call the customer to discuss the payment before allowing it to be 
processed.
However, none of that applies unless Mrs F has actually fallen victim to fraud. To say 
definitively that she was a victim of fraud, Id need (amongst other things) to be persuaded 
that the evidence shows there was an intent to defraud. I obviously cannot know what was in 
the minds of the individuals running the company she invested with, so I have to look at the 
circumstantial evidence and attempt to infer what those intentions likely were.
Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence for me to make such a finding here. The 
fact that the company failed doesnt necessarily imply wrongdoing on the part of its directors. 
A company can fail for a multitude of innocent reasons. There is a great deal of speculation 
that the way the company operated indicates fraud  more than one registered company and 
several special purpose vehicles for individual property projects. However, its noteworthy 
that Mrs F (and many other investors) have been in correspondence with the police for over 
a year. While the complaint has clearly been taken seriously, it doesnt appear that the police 
are treating the conduct of the company directors as criminal.
While Im not ruling out the possibility that she was the victim of fraud, Im afraid that 
wouldnt automatically mean that her complaint must be upheld. These payments predate 
the introduction of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code  so the Code isnt applicable. However, Mrs F made several sizeable payments here 
 the first of which was for £20,000. Even though the expectations on banks have evolved 
over time, Id still have expected, all else being the same, a payment of that size to prompt a 
bank to carry out additional enquiries before processing it.
Santander ought to have spoken to her before allowing the payment to go through and 
asked her some questions about the investment to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. But if it had done so, I dont think there was anything about the arrangement 
that wouldve given them any reasonable grounds for concern.
All of the evidence wouldve pointed to this being a legitimate company that had been trading 
uneventfully for several years. There was no negative information online about the company 
that might have caused Santander concern. The fact that she had been an investor in the 
same company before and had received returns as expected wouldve strengthened 
Santanders conviction that there was no real risk of fraud.
Mr and Mrs F have shared information with us about ongoing legal proceedings, including 
statements given by the insolvency practitioners working on the liquidation. These seem to 
suggest that the company promised potential investors significant returns which, in reality, 
would only have been payable from funds provided by other investors. In other words, the 
company may have been operating as a Ponzi scheme. It isnt surprising then that there 
wouldnt have been any reason for Santander to have suspected fraud back in 2016. By their 
very nature, Ponzi schemes dont tend to look like scams until the point that they fail.
Ive taken into consideration the observations Mrs F has made about the fact that what the 
company was doing required authorisation by the regulator, the FCA. Its correct that the 
business she dealt with wouldve required authorisation to promote the bond to her, although 
the operation of actual investment itself wouldnt have needed authorisation. While I accept 
that the bank could theoretically have identified this in a conversation with Mrs F, Im not 
persuaded that its a realistic expectation of the type of warning it ought to have given in any 
telephone call it shouldve had with her. That information would not have been enough for it to have definitively warned that Mrs F 
was transferring her money to a fraudster. And I think if it had accurately summarised the 
concerns (i.e., that investments generally cant be promoted to retail investors by anyone 
without FCA authorisation) I think this wouldve seemed like a pedantic observation and 
would be unlikely to have prevented her from going ahead, particularly given that shed 
earned the returns she expected when investing in the past.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman