DRN-1896428
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with 
a credit card. He says the PPI cover wasnt something he was made aware of or agreed to. 
He also says he didnt need any PPI. The PPI insured Mr H against losing his job or being 
unable to work. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Hs complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He 
disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
This PPI sale was quite some time ago and it also looks as if the account was closed around 
17 years ago too. Although we cant be absolutely certain about the actual sale date, it looks 
like Mr H had his credit card issued in the 1990s and we know that by 2000 he definitely had 
PPI so the sale was between these dates. Not surprisingly therefore, Lloyds hasnt been 
able to send me any of the records used in the PPI sale. 
In thinking about what might have happened, Ive therefore used what Ive been told by the 
parties and also my own knowledge and experience of PPI sales in general. Ive also looked 
at Lloyds computer records. But because of the disputed nature of the case and the lack of 
documentation, my decision is based on the balance of probabilities i.e. whats more likely to 
have happened.
I do appreciate how hard it might be for Mr H to remember that far back, but my experience 
of these types of PPI sale is that consumers were normally asked whether they agreed to 
the PPI being added to their credit card. Obviously, I cant say this definitely happened here, 
but I think its more likely that it did, because thats what Ive seen in many similar Lloyds 
credit card cases. And when he was sold PPI, I think Mr H would have been sent or given 
something explaining the policy. There would be no legitimate reason for the third-party 
insurer not to do this.
Mr Hs main point of complaint is that he was never even aware he had PPI. However, I was 
sent copies of his monthly credit card account statements which regularly show he was 
being charged for PAYMENTS INSURANCE. This looks prominently displayed on the 
pages to me, so I think he would have been able to see the PPI being charged over many 
years. I accept Mr H may genuinely not remember this now, but on the basis of the evidence 
Ive seen, I think its more likely he agreed to the cover and would have certainly been able 
to see it was there.
Lloyds accepts this would have probably been an advised sale. This means it had a duty to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances. I think it probably was.
I think he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to 
see in these policies. Looking at the price of the PPI, which was around 79p per £100 of 
outstanding balance, I think it was affordable for Mr H.
Mr H told us he had some sickness protection already with his job and implied he didnt 
really need any PPI. He also said he had savings. But Ive thought about this and whilst I 
understand his point, Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable. In the 
event of a successful claim, Mr H would have been able to have the outstanding card 
balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. So overall, I think the cover was 
suitable for Mr H and I dont think a recommendation was unfair.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the sale. 
However, due to the time thats passed I cant confirm whether Mr H was told everything he 
should have been told and its certainly possible Lloyds could have done more. 
But that doesnt change how I view this complaint. For me to uphold this complaint, Id need 
to think it was more likely that Mr H didnt consent or there were other serious flaws in the 
way the PPI was sold. I simply dont have that evidence. I accept weve got very little hard 
evidence, but what Ive seen makes me think its more likely the policy wasnt mis-sold. This 
means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back the cost of 
the PPI to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman