DRN-3881438
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs V complain that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim on their home insurance 
for a damaged door.
Both Mr S and Mrs V are named policyholders on their Covea policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr S, Ill refer mainly to Mr S from here onward.
What happened
During the summer 2022 heatwave, Mr S found damage to his front door. He said the steel 
reinforcement inside the door had expanded in the heat, causing the door to warp. This 
meant the door was difficult to open, and when it did open it caused damage to both the door 
and door frame. He made a claim to Covea on his home insurance.
Covea appointed a surveyor to inspect the door. The surveyor concluded that the damage to 
the door wasnt due to any insured events listed in Mr Ss policy booklet, but instead was a 
result of wear and tear. Based on the report, Covea declined the claim. It accepted there 
was hot weather but said the scrapping [sic] on the timber suggests this happened over a 
period of time. It referred Mr S to his policy booklet which excluded loss or damage caused 
by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens gradually.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Covea to 
pay for his replacement door and compensate him for the stress it caused him.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Coveas surveyor had inspected the door and it was his expert opinion that the damage was 
due to wear and tear. As a result, he thought Coveas decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The report by Coveas surveyor identified the cause of damage as a natural breakdown of 
materials. He also noted obvious signs of the door splitting and concluded: Damage 
caused by wear and tear. The report included two photos showing the location of the door in 
relation to the porch, plus nine photos of the door and door frame (with close-ups of the jamb 
and sill) that show the door and the scapings on the jamb. These clearly show significant 
damage to the door. 
Ive checked the weather reports for Mr Ss local area. The highest temperature recorded by 
the weather station closest to Mr Ss home was 34.1C on 19 July 2022. The average high 
for the week before Mr S made his claim was 26.1C. While I accept that the temperature 
might have been higher in Mr Ss porch, I dont think a properly maintained door would be so 
severely damaged by these temperatures alone. 
The surveyor noted signs of previous repairs. Mr S says he tried to glue the door frame two 
days before the surveyors visit. I cant be sure when Mr S carried out these repairs and the 
surveyor didnt offer a view on this. However, Coveas surveyor reviewed photos of the door 
before it had been glued and these didnt change his opinion.
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to counter the surveyors conclusion that the damage 
was due to wear and tear. He hasnt, for example, instructed his own expert to inspect the 
door to support his view that the heat caused the damage. In the circumstances, I find no 
reason to disagree with Coveas surveyors findings.
In any case, even if I agreed with Mr S, I dont think his policy covers this kind of damage. As 
Covea explained, the accidental damage section of his policy excludes damage caused by 
atmospheric or climatic conditions (Buildings Extended Accidental Damage, page 16).
Overall, Im satisfied by the surveyors conclusion that the damage to Mr Ss front door was 
due to wear and tear. I think Coveas decision to decline the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman