DRN-2864710
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded a fraud marker against her at 
CIFAS, the national fraud prevention agency.
What happened
On 9 July 2020, Miss H received a credit of £1,500 into her Barclays account. She acted 
quickly to check her balance, then withdrew £1,300 in cash and transferred the other £200 to 
her savings. The next hour, she received another £1,500 from the same source. She then 
transferred another £100 to her savings, checked her balance, and withdrew £1,400 in cash.
The sending bank reported these credits as fraudulent. Barclays blocked Miss Hs account 
and placed it under review. Following the review, Barclays decided to close her account and 
register a fraud marker at CIFAS.
Miss H says shed been called by a friend who asked her for help. She says the friend was 
unable to get to a bank as they were too busy, so they asked Miss H to withdraw their 
money for them. They sent her the first £1,500 and told her she could keep £300 for herself, 
as Miss H had lent this friend £300 in the past. Miss H said that after she handled the first 
£1,500, she was driving to a family member when the friend called her again and asked her 
to handle the second lot of money. Miss H explained she was just helping a friend and didnt 
know the funds were fraudulent, and shed never done something like this before.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Miss H had received, benefitted from, and possibly passed on fraudulent 
funds, and there was no dispute shed authorised the withdrawals in question. Miss H hadnt 
been able to evidence her story or the conversations she said had taken place, and there 
was no evidence shed actually given anyone the cash as opposed to keeping it. And they 
felt it didnt make much sense why someone would need Miss H to make these withdrawals 
for them unless she was helping them process fraudulent money.
Miss H didnt agree. She reiterated that she didnt know the funds were fraudulent and had 
only kept the money she was owed, which was rightfully hers. She said nothing like this had 
ever happened to her before, and the friend had now disappeared. She explained the great 
stress that the situation had put her under. She asked for a second review, so the case was 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss H and Barclays a provisional decision on 10 May 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Barclays were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Miss H had done something wrong. Instead, they had to have reasonable grounds 
to believe shed deliberately misused her facility, going beyond a simple suspicion or 
concern, and with appropriate evidence to support this. Having carefully considered 
everything that both sides have said and provided, I currently think that Barclays did have 
sufficient grounds to register the marker. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for 
Miss H and I understand shes going through a tough time in general. Ill explain my thinking 
and what Ive found.
First, Im satisfied from Miss Hs testimony and from Barclays technical evidence that she 
knowingly received the £3,000 in question, withdrew £2,700 of it in cash, and transferred the 
other £300 to her savings. And these funds were confirmed as fraudulent by the sending 
bank. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that Miss H knowingly did 
something wrong, or whether she was acting unwittingly as shes explained.
According to Miss H, she lent this friend hundreds of pounds. She was also OK with handling 
large sums of money for them at very short notice even when she was busy doing other 
things, and she was trusted by this friend to handle large amounts of cash on their behalf. So 
with all that in mind, I would expect that Miss H and this friend knew each other really quite 
well indeed. And so Id expect that Miss H would be able to tell us things like who this person 
was and how they knew each other. Id also expect there to be substantial evidence of their 
relationship or prior conversations, such as call histories, or texts, emails, social media 
histories, and so on. We asked Miss H for such evidence, giving examples of what she could 
provide  and these things should have been relatively easy for her to find. But so far Miss H 
has not given us any evidence which substantiates what she told us.
The only evidence Miss H sent Barclays was a heavily-cropped screenshot from an 
anonymous chat between her and an individual who cannot be identified  they had a 
cartoon for a profile photo and only a single letter for a name. In the small amount of text 
thats visible, this person sent Miss H two question marks and she told them shed just pulled 
up and will go to the bank. So all this really tells us is that Miss H did indeed withdraw the 
fraudulent money and that she was co-operating with someone. But because Miss H didnt 
pass on any of what was said before or after, this screenshot doesnt evidence what shes 
said about why she withdrew the money. And if what Miss H said is true, its difficult to see 
why she hasnt provided the full conversation, as it would only back up her version of events.
Ive gone through Miss Hs statements, and I cant see any record of her lending £300 to this 
friend. We asked Miss H what shed lent this friend the £300 for, and asked if she could 
provide any evidence of the lending, such as records of her transferring the money or 
conversations where theyd discussed it. £300 is not an insignificant sum, so Id expect them 
to have talked about this or at least to have mentioned it in their communication. But again, 
Miss H has not as yet provided any evidence that she was owed this money.
According to Miss Hs testimony, she was told she could keep £300 from the initial transfer 
to cover the money she was owed. And she did not know in advance that the friend would 
make the second transfer to her  she said she was only asked to deal with the second 
transfer later on. But if thats the case, its difficult to see why Miss H only kept £200 from the 
first transfer, and not the full £300. Miss H mentioned she might have just made a mistake, 
but thats a large mistake to make. And the order of payments fits well with the possibility of 
her being paid to willingly forward on the fraudulent funds.There are some further inconsistencies with Miss Hs version of events. For example, she 
said the friend was too busy to go to a bank themselves. But it surely would have taken more 
time and effort for the friend to get hold of Miss H twice, explain and arrange everything, set 
up two transfers at different times, and then meet up with her to receive the money  not 
least as Miss H made the withdrawals in two different towns some miles apart. Further, the 
transfers were made directly to Miss H from the victim of fraud  not from the alleged friend. 
So I might have thought Miss H wouldve questioned who was suddenly sending her large 
sums of money supposedly for her friend, and why the friend had said the transfers were 
from them when they had quite clearly come from someone else.
Further, Miss H acted rapidly in checking that each transfer had come in and then 
withdrawing the money. It seems odd that Miss H was able to act so quickly if she had not 
been anticipating this money arriving before the friend got in touch, and it seems odd that 
shed drop everything else to do this so quickly if she was just doing a favour for a friend out 
of the blue. I have also kept in mind that if Miss H knew this money was fraudulent, then she 
would have been motivated to withdraw it as quickly as possible before the fraud was 
reported. This is not a key point, but I thought it was worth mentioning.
Lastly, Miss H said shed never done anything like this before. But I can see that in the 
weeks leading up to this incident she received a number of other large payments, which she 
then forwarded on through anonymous transfers or withdrew in cash in a similar manner. 
She doesnt appear to have had any previous financial dealings with any of these people. 
Even where the transfers are labelled as being for money owed to Miss H, I cant see any 
prior transactions where she lent these people funds. We asked Miss H if she could tell us 
how she knew these people, or evidence why they were sending her money and why she 
was forwarding it on. But as yet, she has not responded to our request.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss H received, benefitted from, and withdrew money thats 
been confirmed as fraudulent. She hasnt been able to show she was entitled to these funds, 
her version of events has inconsistencies and does not seem especially plausible, and shes 
not provided evidence to back it up  even when certain evidence would be relatively simple 
for her to get. The way this happened fits with Miss H acting as a willing money mule. She 
also used her account in a similar way a number of times leading up to this, and has not as 
yet been able to evidence why she kept receiving and forwarding on large sums of money. 
So based on what Ive seen so far, I think Barclays acted fairly in registering the CIFAS 
marker. It also follows that I dont think they did anything wrong by closing Miss Hs account. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss H to 
receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
7 June 2021. But neither Miss H nor Barclays sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman