DRN-2336291
The complaint
Mrs E complains about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(HRG) and their decision not to remove charges from her card after she explained the 
items ordered hadnt been received.
What happened
On 29 November 2019, Mrs E entered into a credit card agreement with HRG. She used this 
card to purchase two items from retailer A and arranged for them to be delivered to her 
home address.
But Mrs E says these items werent delivered. So, she contacted HRG and asked that her 
account be refunded, or new items delivered. But HRG didnt agree to do so, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs E complained that HRG had acted unfairly by not refunding the charges on her account. 
She explained the items werent received so didnt think it was fair to expect her to pay for 
something she couldnt use. HRG responded and didnt agree. They explained retailer A had 
provided evidence to show the items were delivered to the correct address and had been 
signed for. So, they wouldnt refund the purchases. 
Mrs E wasnt happy with this. She explained her husband had been at home to take the 
delivery and it hadnt been received. And she explained the signature retailer A provided 
didnt match her signature so didnt think it was fair for HRG to rely on this as proof of 
delivery. So, she maintained her belief that the purchases should be refunded. As Mrs E 
remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained hed seen 
evidence to show the items were delivered to Mrs Es correct address. And that the items 
had been signed for on delivery. Because of this, he thought HRG acted fairly when deciding 
not to refund the purchases. Although he acknowledged the signature differed from Mrs Es, 
he didnt think this showed HRG had done anything wrong as they were unable to control 
who took receipt of the items at the address. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Mrs E didnt agree. She provided a letter from her workplace which supported her account 
that she wasnt at home when the items were delivered. And she maintained her belief that, 
as the signature didnt match hers, it wasnt fair to rely on this as proof of delivery. So, she 
wanted the purchases refunded. As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mrs E. Its clear Mrs E 
disputes the items were received, and I can understand how frustrated Mrs E would be after 
being told shed need to pay for goods shes unable to use. But for me to say HRG should 
refund the cost of the items to Mrs Es account, Id need to be sure they did something 
wrong. Or that their decision not to refund the purchases was unfair, considering the 
information they had available to them when making that decision. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
I think it would be useful to start by explaining what Im able to look into, and what HRG were 
responsible for. Although Im aware the credit card account was taken out when purchasing 
the items from retailer A, that doesnt mean HRG are responsible for the actions of retailer A. 
At this service, we are only able to consider complaints about regulated businesses and 
activities. And in this situation, the regulated activity is the credit agreement provided by 
HRG and so, their decision on whether the item costs should be refunded. Any issues with 
the delivery wasnt the responsibility of HRG, and Ive had to consider this when making my 
decision.
Ive seen the credit agreement Mrs E entered into when purchasing the items through 
retailer A. This included Mrs Es home address and signature. And Ive seen the items Mrs E 
ordered were arranged to be delivered to the same address. So, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest HRG made any kind of error when administering the credit agreement that may 
have impacted the delivery of Mrs Es items. So, I dont think theyve done anything wrong in 
that respect.
And Ive seen evidence to show the items were delivered to the same address. And retailer 
A have provided a signature which they feel is proof of delivery. But Mrs E has disputed the 
validity of that signature, saying it isnt hers. So, Ive had to consider whether HRG have 
acted fairly when deciding not to refund Mrs Es account.
Mrs E has provided a letter from her place of employment, which confirmed she was at work 
at the time the items were delivered. And in her testimony to this service, Mrs E confirmed 
that someone else was at her property on the day of delivery to take receipt of the items. I 
see no reason to dispute this and Im satisfied Mrs E herself wasnt the person to receive the 
disputed delivery.
But because of this, I dont think Mrs E ever intended to take receipt of the delivery herself. 
So, I wouldnt expect the signature provided by retailer A to match Mrs Es. It isnt a 
requirement for the person that ordered the items to take receipt of, and sign for, the 
delivery. So, I dont think this in itself is enough to suggest HRG shouldve refunded Mrs Es 
account.
I have no way of knowing for sure who took receipt of the delivery at Mrs Es address. And 
because of this, neither could HRG when deciding whether to refund the account. But from 
the evidence provided, I think its most likely, on the balance of probability, that someone did 
take receipt of the items at Mrs Es address. So, when considering the actions of HRG, I 
dont think I can reasonably say they assessed the information available to them unfairly. 
And because of this, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably when not refunding the item 
costs on Mrs Es account. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman