DRN-4291944
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).
What happened
Miss A acquired a used car in June 2022 funded by a hire purchase agreement with SMF.
The car cost £15,145 and SMF said the mileage was recorded as 59,001. The car was 
around four years old.
Miss A says the car had issues shortly after she acquired it. She said she immediately 
noticed a leak from the car where fluid pooled underneath it. She says the car was returned 
to the dealer, who initially said there was nothing wrong with it. She says she then noticed 
the temperature gauge in the car was too high when driving, and then got a warning light 
saying the engine needed coolant. After topping this up, she says the same thing happened 
and a mechanic told her not to drive the car.
Miss A says the car was returned to the dealer on multiple occasions for repairs, but was still 
leaking fluid when it was given back to her.
Miss A complained to SMF. It issued its final response in September 2022. This said, in 
summary, that the dealer had agreed to take the car back if it was provided with evidence of 
faults. It said Miss A had provided photos and a screenshot of a conversation with the 
dealer, but she had not provided a diagnostic report. SMF said it would cover the cost of this 
up to £50.
A garage saw the car in October 2022. The mileage was recorded as 60,489. This garage 
noted fault codes in relation to the power supply voltage, start enable, temperature sensor 
and electronic selector level module.
It appears SMF asked Miss A to get a more detailed report. Miss A then referred the 
complaint to our service and said she wanted to reject the car.
An independent report was carried out in December 2022. This recorded the mileage as 
61,313. This report said, in summary, that there were no visible leaks from the car, no 
warning lights, that the engine temperature remained steady without overheating and the air 
conditioning and heater worked as expected. It did note that a coolant pipe appeared recent 
in origin and that a driveshaft CV joint should be replaced soon due to cracking.
Miss A was in disagreement with the findings of this report and took the car to a 
manufacturers garage for a diagnostic in February 2023. This garage said, in summary, that 
there was damage to the driveshafts due to a previous issue/repair and it recommended 
these were replaced. And it said the switchover valve was leaking coolant and required 
replacement.
Our investigator sent this information to SMF and then issued an opinion. He said, in 
summary, that he thought the car had issues with the driveshafts and a coolant leak that 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He said SMF should repair 
the issues, pay Miss A £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and reimburse 
her for the diagnostic reports.
Miss A responded and said she agreed with the outcome reached but said she wanted to 
reject the car rather than it being repaired. She said she hadnt used the car since the 
manufacturers garage saw it in February 2023. And she said she hadnt been provided with 
any service history or a log book for the car.
While we were awaiting a response from SMF, in April 2023 Miss A told our service the car 
had been clamped and taken by the DVLA as it wasnt taxed.
SMF responded to the investigators view. It said, in summary, that the manufacturers 
diagnostic was only a free visual check, whereas the independent report was a full 
inspection. It said the manufacturers garage had noted the driveshafts should be replaced 
as a recommendation. So it said this was a wear and tear issue. And it said it didnt believe 
the fault with the switchover valve was present or developing at the point of supply.
SMF also said that it was Miss As responsibility to tax the car.
At the end of April 2023 SMF wrote to Miss A and said it was terminating the agreement. It 
said Miss A owed a balance of £16,381.91. SMF explained to our service that it had to pay a 
total of £1,170 to collect the car and gave a breakdown of these costs.
Our investigator then issued a further view on the case. He said, in summary, that he now 
thought Miss A should be allowed to reject the car. He said he didnt think the driveshaft 
issue was wear and tear. And he said he didnt think Miss A should be responsible for the 
storage or recovery costs for the car.
Miss A agreed with this opinion. SMF responded and said it didnt agree Miss A should be 
able to reject the car. And it said it was her responsibility to make sure it was road legal.
As SMF disagreed here, the case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss A and SMF a provisional decision on 10 July 2023. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
I should begin by explaining to both parties that Im going to focus on what I think are the key 
points here and the crux of this complaint. I want to reassure both parties that Ive carefully 
considered all of the information and evidence on this case. Where I havent commented on 
something, it isnt because I consider it unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of 
our service.
Miss A complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Miss As complaint against SMF.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  SMF here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, mileage and description.
So, Ill consider that Miss As car had covered around 59,000 miles and was around four 
years old. So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be in the same condition 
as a newer car with less miles. But, the car still cost over £15,000. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have been free of anything other than minor issues and would 
expect trouble free motoring for a reasonable period.
Ive firstly considered whether Miss As car had a fault with it. Having done so, I think it did. 
Ill explain why.
Ive considered the reports that were carried out on the car. The first report Miss A got from a 
garage only noted fault codes. Given the lack of detail here, Ive not put much weight on this. 
Instead, Ive focused on the independent inspection and the manufacturers report.
Ive firstly thought about the coolant leak. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied its 
most likely Miss As car had a coolant leak when she acquired it. I say this as shes been 
consistent with what shes said here. Shes provided photos which she says were from the 
time, where fluid can be clearly seen underneath the car. And shes provided screenshots of 
what she says was a conversation with the dealer. Here the dealer says:
This was a visual leak and got fixed
Ive also considered what the independent report said here. This noted a likely recent repair 
to a coolant pipe. But, the independent report also specifically said that there was no issues 
with a coolant leak at the time.
So, thinking about this, it appears there is a case to be made for a coolant leak being 
present, but then repaired by the dealer. But, the manufacturers garage later noted:
Switchover valve leaking coolant. Requires replacement
I take on SMFs point about the timings involved here. This was noted around eight months 
after Miss A got the car. But, the car had only covered around 500 miles since the 
independent report, and under 3,000 miles since Miss A acquired it.
I appreciate this is somewhat finely balanced. I accept its possible that the car couldve had 
a coolant leak which was fixed by the dealer, and then later developed a completely 
separate coolant leak. But, I need to consider what I think most likely happened. I think this 
situation would be quite a large coincidence. So, I think its more likely that the car had an 
underlying fault with a coolant leak that wasnt put right.
That being said, I understand this isnt clear cut. So, Ive also considered the other main 
issue raised with the car around the driveshafts.
An issue with the driveshaft was noted in the independent report which said:
We performed a road test and we found at the offside front driveshaft there was light 
cracking on the CV joint
The manufacturers garage said:
Previous repair on driveshafts, suspect damage from previous issue/repair. Recommend 
replacement pairSo, both reports seem in agreement there was an issue with the driveshafts. Ive thought 
about what SMF said about it believing this was a wear and tear issue. But I dont agree 
here. The reason I say this is Ive also looked at the cars MOT history. It appears this was 
tested shortly before Miss A got the car. The car failed the MOT and the test noted:
Repair immediately (major defects):
Front drive shaft joint constant velocity boot split or insecure (emphasis added by myself).
The car then later passed an MOT the same day.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied I can see a clear timeline of what likely happened. The car 
failed an MOT for a driveshaft issue and it appears a repair was attempted. The independent 
report then noted an issue with the driveshaft and then the manufacturers garage also noted 
an issue with the driveshafts, due to suspected damage from a previous repair.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied the car had a fault with the driveshafts before it was 
supplied to Miss A. And Im satisfied this wasnt repaired. I also dont agree with SMF that 
this was a wear and tear issue, nor a minor one.
Ive then gone on to consider satisfactory quality. Having done so, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect an underlying issue with the coolant leak. As set out above, the coolant 
leak issue is somewhat finely balanced. But, either way, I still think the car would not have 
been of satisfactory quality due to the driveshaft issue  which Im satisfied is much clearer.
So, I now need to think about what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Our investigator initially recommended SMF repair the car. And he later said, because of the 
time that had passed, Miss A should be allowed to reject it. Considering Miss As rights 
under the CRA, Im satisfied she did have a final right to reject the car. But this isnt due to 
the same reasons put forward by our investigator. 
I say this as Im satisfied the dealer most likely attempted a repair to the car that wasnt 
successful. Ive based this on the screenshot of messages, Miss As testimony and the 
recent repair to a coolant pipe noted in the independent report.
Ive then gone on to consider what else would be fair and reasonable to put things right. The 
circumstances here are somewhat unusual. The agreement has been terminated following 
the car being seized and it appears SMF already have it back.
Ive thought about Miss As use of the car. She told us she stopped driving it in February 
2023 when the manufacturers report was completed. And prior to this, she explained she 
was only using the car for short journeys due to the issues with it. Im satisfied the usage of 
the car Miss A had, given the above, was impaired. I would normally consider instructing 
SMF to reimburse a proportion of the monthly payments she made to reflect this impaired 
usage.
But, SMF has explained Miss A has only paid five repayments towards the car. And it 
appears she was using the car, albeit less than she might normally have, for around eight 
months. Thinking about things in the round here, it seems fair and reasonable that SMF 
retain 100% of the repayments made, but do not hold Miss A responsible for the arrears.
Im satisfied, as our investigator explained, that Miss A has suffered distress and 
inconvenience here. Shes had to take time out to get reports, has explained she hasnt felt 
safe using the car and I think it must have been upsetting to realise the car had issues with it. Ive noted our investigator recommended £250 to reflect this.
Ive also considered that Miss A has paid out for two diagnostic reports, one for £60 and one 
for £189. Our investigator recommended both of these to be reimbursed.
Finally, Ive thought about the issue with the car being taken by the DVLA due to it being 
untaxed. SMF has explained it has incurred costs of £1,170 here.
On one hand, if SMF had accepted rejection of the car earlier, this situation wouldnt have 
happened. If Miss A was back in the position she wouldve been in had nothing gone wrong 
here  in this case meaning not being supplied with the car of unsatisfactory quality in the 
first place - this issue also wouldnt have taken place.
On the other hand, I need to consider if Miss A has mitigated any losses here. I appreciate 
she says she was never supplied with a V5 for the car and says she raised this with the 
dealer and SMF. But, Ive seen no evidence of what happened here. Even if I accepted Miss 
As version of events, she acquired the car in June 2022 and it was clamped by the DVLA in 
April 2023  around ten months later. SMF have explained it believes the car was untaxed 
for around four months prior to this.
Considering this, I dont think Miss A did enough here to prevent this situation happening. 
Even if she wasnt supplied with a V5, I think it might have been prudent for her to rectify the 
situation with the DVLA, rather than leaving the car untaxed for several months.
I need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to both parties here. Thinking about 
things in the round, rather than SMF reimbursing Miss A for the costs of the diagnostics and 
paying her an amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused, I think it should 
instead write off the costs from collecting the car. Im satisfied this means Miss A is roughly 
meeting SMF halfway with the costs it incurred, and this seems like a fair and reasonable 
way of resolving things under the very specific circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further information or evidence. 
SMF didnt get in touch following the provisional decision.
Miss A contacted our service and said she accepted what Id recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is 
due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Write off any arrears/outstanding balance and charges due under the agreement*Amend Miss As credit file to reflect that the car was rejected rather than the 
agreement terminated
Remove any other adverse information about the agreement from Miss As credit file
*To be clear, this should include any collection or storage costs for the car
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman