DRN-2370610
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she took out with Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited in 2005. She says it was mis-sold because she believes she misled about how 
much the debt would increase to  she believed it would not exceed £28,000. 
Mrs L is represented in her complaint by a relative, but for simplicity I will refer to all 
comments made as Mrs Ls.
What happened
Mrs L took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2005 for £15,000 and with a fixed interest 
rate for its entire duration.  There was an early repayment charge (ERC) payable on the 
mortgage if it was paid off in circumstances other than Mrs L moving because she needed 
care or on her death.
A fact find was completed when Mrs L first met with the Aviva adviser. It was detailed that 
she was retired and had an income of £8,840, of which all but around £120 each month was 
spent on basic outgoings. Mrs L estimated the value of her home was £125,000. Mrs L told 
the adviser she needed to generate £15,000 for home improvements and mortgage costs. 
Alternative options to raise the money were explored, but Mrs Ls existing savings of £500 
werent enough to cover the cost of what she wanted to achieve, and she wanted to keep it 
as her emergency fund. She didnt want to commit to the regular expenditure of a traditional 
mortgage or loan, and she had no wish to move. Mrs Ls son lived with her and was involved 
when the mortgage was sold.
Where risk was concerned, it was recorded that Mrs L only wanted to take the minimum 
amount out of the value of her home. This was because she wanted to retain as much of the 
equity in her home as she could; whilst at the same time as using some of its value to help 
her at that time.
A key features document was produced for Mrs L to consider before she applied for the 
mortgage. It set out the features, benefits and risks associated with the mortgage. Under 
risks it stated:
In the future, depending on how house prices change and the length of time your lifetime 
mortgage is outstanding, the amount you owe could exceed the value of your home. This is 
what is meant by the expression negative equity.
For as long as you are living in your property, negative equity has no effect on your lifetime 
mortgage. The no negative equity guarantee ensures that when your lifetime mortgage is 
repaid you will never have to pay back more than the value of your home, even if the amount 
is higher.
It also included details of the amount the mortgage would increase to (based on the annual 
interest rate of 7.09%) at various points. This showed that by the end of year 10 the 
mortgage balance would be just under £30,000. By the end of year 15 the mortgage balance 
was shown to be over £41,000. It also detailed that, if the mortgage was paid off for reasons 
other than moving into care or on death, an ERC would be payable. Depending on the 
position of the specified gilt index the ERC was dependent on, examples of what this charge 
could be were detailed as ranging between £300 and slightly over £4,000, but the actual 
amount that would be chargeable could vary from the examples. 
The Aviva adviser also provided Mrs L with a letter setting out the recommendation being 
made and the reasons for doing so. It detailed that Mrs L was living comfortably on her 
pension income, but wanted to do some home improvements (a new kitchen, bathroom, 
windows and garage door), which her income and savings didnt provide for. So she was 
looking for a way to raise the money she wanted. It was detailed that other options were 
considered, but discounted for the reasons detailed in the fact find. It was highlighted that 
taking the lifetime mortgage would affect the value of Mrs Ls estate on death and the 
amount that could be passed on to her beneficiaries. It was also detailed that Mrs L had 
discussed taking the mortgage with those concerned and she was happy to proceed with the 
mortgage application.
The mortgage offer sent to Mrs L when her application was accepted again included an 
illustration of the amount she would owe at different times. It was again shown that the 
mortgage balance would be around £30,000 by the end of ten years and that was expected 
to have increased to almost £42,000 at the end of year 15. The ERC was also documented 
as in the same way as it had been in the earlier illustration  showing the amount would 
differ depending on the movement of the associated gilt index. Again, there was an example 
of the charge being over £4,000, and it was highlighted these figures were only examples 
and the actual charge might vary from the amounts detailed. 
Following the mortgage offer being issued, and Mrs L deciding she wanted to accept the 
offer, she needed to speak to a solicitor. For the mortgage to be advanced, the solicitor was 
asked to ensure Mrs L understood the mortgage. The solicitor signed a certificate to say it 
had done so.
In 2019, a relative of Mrs L paid off the mortgage. She complained to Aviva as she felt she 
had been misled when the mortgage was sold. 
Aviva responded to Mrs Ls complaint by explaining how the mortgage she held with it 
worked, the process its adviser had gone through before selling her it and the documentation 
she would have received before making her decision to apply. It said that based on the 
information from the time of the sale, it was satisfied the mortgage was suitable for Mrs Ls 
circumstances and there was no evidence she was told the debt would only ever reach 
£28,000.
Mrs L wasnt happy with Avivas response and asked this service to consider her concerns. 
She said she had been led to believe she would only need to pay back £28,000 to redeem 
the mortgage, but when it was paid off in 2019, it cost in the region of £40,000.
One of our investigators considered the compliant, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
concluded that Mrs L had been given enough information before she applied for the loan to 
know that she might have to pay back more than £28,000. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said the adviser who came to her 
home and met with her and her son, told them there would be a total repayment of £28,000. 
She had already explained there was nothing in writing to support this and the reason she 
asked how much she would have to pay back was because she didnt really understand the 
mortgage. Mrs L explained her son had used his life savings to clear the mortgage due to 
the amount that was owing on it. As she cant prove that she was told she would only ever owe £28,000, she would be happy for the complaint to be settled by Aviva refunding the 
early repayment charge. 
Our investigator considered what Mrs L had to say, but it didnt change his conclusions. As 
such, Mrs L asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt present at the time of the sale of this policy and so cant be certain of what Mrs L 
was told orally. However, the documentation she was given before and after the sale of the 
mortgage doesnt support her being told the mortgage debt would never exceed £28,000 or 
any other amount. Indeed, the documentation shows that amount owed would increase year 
on year and would exceed £28,000 in less than 10 years. 
It was also clearly explained that the amount owed could exceed the value of the property 
and what would happen in those circumstances. So I cant find that the documentation was 
misleading. 
Following provision of all this information, Mrs L also met with her solicitors which confirmed 
it had ensured she understood the mortgage and how it worked. Had Mrs L not understood 
how the mortgage worked or if the information she was given didnt match what shed been 
told orally by the adviser, I would have expected her to raise it at that time. 
Whilst I know that this will disappoint Mrs L, on balance, I dont consider the evidence 
supports that Mrs L was misled that the mortgage wouldnt exceed £28,000. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman