DRN-2499810
The complaint
Mr J complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM) closed his trades when it 
shouldnt have done because its system couldnt cope with negative pricing.
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr J opened three long Contract For Differences (CFD) trades in US Oil for 
the May 2020 futures contract. His first trade was at 08.30 GMT, the second at 09.24 GMT 
and the last at 15.02 GMT. 
The trades were all due to expire in FXCMs market break that day, which was 21.00-22.000 
GMT. However, FXCM froze its US Oil market before expiry, at around 18.08 GMT. Mr J 
was unable to see the price or do anything in relation to his trades after this and these were 
closed at $0.001.
In its final response to his complaint FXCM said that 20 April 2020 the pricing of US Oil 
experienced a historical move, as the price of the underlying instrument for US Oil began to 
price below zero. 
It explained that FXCM had the right to halt trading on an instrument entirely if there is a halt 
to trading on any exchange or a significant event that could impede liquidity, execution, and 
price delivery. It said that the trades closed due to the expiration of US Oil and were closed 
at a price of $0.001 and that there were no issues with the pricing or execution.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she said that FXCM had closed Mr Js trades because of lack of liquidity in the oil 
markets and that the terms and conditions allowed it to do so in the circumstances. She said 
that the trades had been closed using a price of $0.001, but if they had been closed based 
on what was happening in the underlying market and a negative price had been used, his 
losses would have been more. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
The investigator has based her opinion on global macroeconomic conditions as 
evidence and hasnt been objective.
He provided evidence that FXCM disguised a platform error to profiteer from an 
exceptional market event.
There is no information as to how WTI could continue trading below $0 whilst FXCM 
closed its servers down at $0.001.
FXCM modified its terms and conditions and its US Oil market data after the event.
The claim that there was loss of liquidity needs to be substantiated and verifiable and 
unbiased. FXCM has not presented evidence about there being a loss of liquidity and 
the investigator has relied only on media coverage.
The investigator has said that FXCM only make money on the spread, but it is known 
that spread bettors take the other side of client trades.
There has been no investigation as to what he has said about the platform crashing 
unexpectedly because the price reached zero.
There has been no investigation as to what he has said about the negative pricing of 
natural gas and whether FXCMs platform froze as a result, as it did with his US Oil 
trades.
The investigator responded to the points raised and said the following:
Whether FXCMs systems could cope with negative pricing or not the loss of liquidity 
is enough for them to have suspended trading and to have closed the positions.
Liquidity means the volume and ratio of buyers and sellers and there were much 
fewer people willing to buy the WTI May 2020 Futures contract. FXCM wouldnt have 
had higher liquidity than what happened in the underlying market and this is enough 
for her to say it did nothing wrong in closing the trades.
Brokers are permitted by the rules  which we are not responsible for  to be the 
counterparty to a trade.
If the number of long trades and short trades evens out, brokers can hedge their own 
risk by placing trades themselves. 
If no one is willing to trade this is something they cant do and, in that situation, it is 
unlikely that long and short trades will balance out.
We would expect brokers to weigh their own best interest with the interests of their 
clients.
By closing the trades FXCM didnt allow trading on what was a very volatile market.
She had not seen anything that shows that FXCM broke any rules.
Mr J responded and said the following:
If the reason for suspension was the price hitting $0 this needs to be rectified for the 
future.
The underlying market traded as normal.
FXCM need to prove that trading was suspended because of the price rather than its 
platform couldnt cope with negative pricing.
It is clear its platform crashed when the price hit $0 so it could have tracked the 
underlying instrument which continued to trade unsuspended.
As FXCM could trade as counterparty it would obviously not be taking any loss by 
returning his loss and by keeping this they are profiteering.
In contrast if FXCM would be taking a loss by returning his loss then the loss of 
liquidity is a valid excuse, but this must be investigated.
I asked FXCM to confirm if its systems had been unable to cope with the negative pricing 
and whether it was aware of the possibility of negative pricing before 20 April 2020 given 
CME Group had issued a number of warnings about the possibility of negative oil prices, the 
latest being on 15 April 2020. 
It said that the information Mr J had referred to about warnings from the CME Group isnt 
relevant as any such warnings were sent to CME Clearing Member firms and it isnt one. It 
said its systems could cope with negative pricing, but trading was stopped before the price 
went negative. It said its terms of business allowed it to alter trading hours, which is what it 
did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Js strength of feeling about what happened and his belief that FXCMs 
system couldnt cope with negative pricing and this is what led to him being unable to take 
any action with his US Oil positions and these being closed at $0.001.
However, I need to make my findings on a balance of probabilities. In other words I am not 
saying what definitely did, or didnt, happen only what I think, more likely than not, happened, based on the available evidence. 
I note Mr J has said that whether FXCMs systems could cope with negative pricing needs to 
be investigated. However, my role is to consider the evidence provided by the parties and 
make findings based on that evidence. I can ask a party to provide evidence, but I have no 
powers of investigation. 
From the evidence available I am unable to say that it is more likely than not FXCM did 
anything wrong and agree with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
for the same reasons.
What happened on 20 April 2020 with US Oil has been well documented generally. In short, 
there was a decrease in demand for West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) - the underlying 
commodity for the US Oil futures contract. In simple terms there was too much production 
not enough demand and not enough storage capacity.
This pushed down the price of WTI and it went negative on 20 April 2020  for the first time 
in its history - which impacted the May 2020 futures contract that Mr J had opened three 
positions in and which was due to expire later that day.
This led to FXCM closing its US Oil market and to the closure of Mr Js positions. Mr J 
argues that his trade was closed because FXCMs systems couldnt cope with negative 
pricing rather than as a result of it taking action as a result of what was happening with US 
Oil. 
I asked FXCM about this and it has told me that there was no issue with its system and that 
it could handle negative pricing. It said that what happened on 20 April 2020 was that trading 
was stopped by it because of what was happening to the price.
Mr J said that he had provided evidence that showed FXCM disguised a system failure to 
profit from an exceptional market event. However, whilst I acknowledge what he has said I 
am not satisfied he has provided any persuasive evidence showing a failure in FXCMs 
system.
FXCM did subsequently provide a notice to clients on 22 April 2020 which included the 
following:
Until further notice, all Oil CFD contracts may be closed without notice and prior to expiry, 
should the underlying reference price reach or fall below $3.00.
And
NEGATIVE PRICING
FXCM will not support negative prices on our products and reserve the right to cease trading 
when market prices reach zero or when we reasonably anticipate negative prices. In such 
event, we may close all open positions at the best price available to us.
It isnt surprising that FXCM took action as a result of what happened on 20 April 2020 and 
decided that it wouldnt support negative prices and provided reasonable notice of this to 
clients. However, I dont think FXCM stating it wont support negative prices is evidence that 
its system on 20 April 2020 couldnt cope with negative prices.  
I have considered whether FXCM should have provided information to clients before 20 April 
2020 on what it would do if prices turned negative. I note Mr J has said that there was an implicit normality that prices could turn negative as natural gas prices had once hit negative 
pricing. 
However, I dont accept that because natural gas prices turned negative on a previous 
occasion this means negative pricing was implicitly normal for US Oil - given that before 20 
April 2020 it had never turned negative.
Mr J referred to the warning provided by the CME Group to its members on 15 April 2020 
about the possibility of negative pricing. I asked FXCM about this and it says it wasnt 
provided with the warnings from CME as it wasnt one of its clearing members. In the 
circumstances I cant say based on the information I have seen that it is more likely than not 
FXCM were aware before 20 April 2020 that there was risk US Oil could turn negative. 
FXCM has told me clearly that its system could handle negative pricing and that trading was 
stopped before prices turned negative and that it altered the trading hours as its terms 
allowed it to.
As I explained at the outset, I have no powers of investigation. I am reliant on the evidence 
provided by the parties. FXCM is obviously in position to know how its system works and 
whether it could handle negative prices. To find that its system couldnt handle negative 
pricing  in other words that it has misled me  I would need to have seen some persuasive 
evidence this was the case. I have not seen such evidence.  
In the circumstances, based on the evidence I have seen, on balance I think that trading was 
stopped by FXCM because of what was happening in the market and not as result of its 
systems being unable to cope with negative pricing. 
That leads me on to considering whether FXCM did anything wrong in stopping trading for 
this reason. 
Its terms of business dated 6 September 2019 include the following:
24.1 We shall not be liable for any loss caused directly or indirectly by any breakdown or 
failure of any transmission or communication system or equipment or computer facility or 
trading software, loss of use of the Trading Facility, whether belonging to us or our 
Associated companies, you, any Market, or any settlement or cleaning system when you 
trade online (via internet) or for any cause preventing us from performing any or all of our 
obligations, any act of God, war terrorism, malicious damage, civil commotion, industrial 
acts, any Exceptional Market Event, or acts and regulations of any governmental or supra 
national bodies or authorities which in our opinion prevent an orderly market in relation to 
your Orders (an Exceptional Event).
And:
24.3 Upon the occurrence of an Exceptional event, all of our obligations under these terms 
shall immediately be suspended for the duration of such exceptional event. Additionally, we 
may take anyone of more of the following steps with or without notice to you:
(a) Alter normal trading times
(b) Alter the margin requirements
(c) Close any or all open positions, cancel instructions and orders as we reasonably 
deem to be appropriate in the circumstances; and/or
(d) Take or omit all such actions as we deem to be reasonably appropriate in the 
circumstances having regard to your open positions and the open positions of other 
customers.An Exceptional Market Event as referred to in clause 24.1 of the terms of business set out 
above, is defined in the terms as:
the suspension, closure, liquidation, imposition of limits, special or unusual terms, excessive 
movement, volatility, or loss of liquidity in any relevant market or Underlying Instrument, or 
where we reasonably believe that any of the above circumstances are about to occur.
I think what happened on 20 April 2020 falls within the above definition. I think that there was 
excessive movement and/or volatility and/or a loss of liquidity. As such I think FXCM was 
able to take any of the actions set out at Clause 24.3 of its terms, including altering trading 
hours and closing positions. In the circumstances I dont think it did anything wrong in 
relation to the three positions Mr J opened. 
One additional point I think it is worth making is that even if I though FXCM had done 
something wrong, there is nothing to suggest Mr J has suffered a loss as a result. His three 
positions in US Oil were long. In other words, he expected the price of oil to rise, which 
obviously isnt what happened. The price continued to fall after it closed its US Oil market so, 
if FXCM had not closed this when it did it seems to me Mr Js losses may well have been 
much higher.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman