DRN-3285264
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) provided to 
her. She says she was unemployed but still able to borrow a large amount.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Fs 
complaint. Miss F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss F could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Miss F with a loan for £1,000.00 in June 2015. It had an APR of 
99.9% and was to due be repaid in 12 instalments of £117.74, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £1,412.88. 
118 118 Money says it agreed to Miss Fs application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit 
search it carried out on Miss F. The information Miss F provided about her income and 
expenditure showed shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing 
to. 118 118 Money says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other 
hand, Miss F has said she was unemployed and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss F and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Miss Fs first and only loan with 118 118 Money. 
And as the monthly payments were relatively low and for a short-term period a relatively light 
touch check might have been proportionate in the circumstances. Miss F says she was 
unemployed at the time. I dont know whether she was. But the information retained from 
Miss Fs application suggested she told 118 118 Money that she was employed and 
received a monthly salary of around £1,100.00. And she had expenditure of less than £600 a 
month. 
118 118 Money has also provided a record of the credit search information it received and 
while it suggests that Miss F didnt have much in the way of credit at this stage, nonetheless 
there wasnt anything in this information to contradict Miss Fs declarations. And bearing in 
mind what Miss F appears to have said about her income, at the time at least, the relatively 
low monthly payments and the short-term for this loan, I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for 118 118 Money to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Miss Fs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. I know what shes 
said about her employment situation and Im sorry to hear that she found repaying this loan 
difficult. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies in the information obtained, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into doing anything further here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Miss F - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. So I dont think that 118 118 Money 
treated Miss F unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with his loan. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman