DRN-3078311
The complaint
Ms E and Mr F complain about errors made by Barclays Bank UK PLC after they applied for 
a payment deferral during the Covid-19 pandemic. They say this has affected their credit 
score and their health and wellbeing They ask for mortgage payments to be refunded for 
each month this has gone on, totalling about £22,400.
 
What happened
Ms E and Mr F complain that Barclays made errors when they asked for payment deferrals, 
and continued to make errors after this. They say this prevented them re-mortgaging.
Our investigator said while Barclays made errors it had put matters right, and its offer of 
£800 compensation was fair.
Ms E and Mr F didnt agree. They said compensation of £5,000 was fair due to the on-going 
impact of Barclays errors.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E and Mr F complain about problems with their mortgage with Barclays, including:
Not receiving written confirmation of the payment deferral agreed in March 2020.
Receiving a letter about a missed payment during the payment deferral.
Difficulties applying for a second payment deferral.
Receiving letters saying their term had expired and recovery action might be taken.
Being told they now owe more than when they took the mortgage out in 2019.
Their broker being told theres no record of their mortgage, meaning they couldnt re-
mortgage.
Payment deferrals
Ms E and Mr F applied online for a payment deferral on 25 March 2020. As they didnt 
receive confirmation of the payment deferral they called Barclays on 30 March (their 
payment was due on 31 March). Barclays said it was too late to stop its system trying to take 
the March payment. It said would backdate the payment deferral to include March 2020, and 
this would rectify the account. 
Ms E and Mr F received letters saying the payment deferral would start in April 2020. They 
had a letter about the March payment being missed  possibly this was automatically 
generated before the agreed payment deferral was in place. Ms E says she wasnt given a 
payment holiday number which she needed to apply for the second payment deferral. And 
when she called to ask for a second payment deferral she was told the first one didnt end 
until June.
Barclays did backdate the payment deferral to start in March 2020, as it said it would and as 
Ms E and Mr F wanted. And while there was some initial confusion, and Ms E says she had 
to call Barclays several times, Barclays agreed another three months payment deferral from 
June 2020. 
Incorrect letters about the term expiry.
In July 2020 Ms E and Mr F received a letter saying their term had expired and the mortgage 
had to be repaid in full or risk possession action. This was clearly wrong  theyd taken out 
their mortgage in 2019 and it had about 30 years remaining.
Ms E contacted Barclays straight away. Barclays said the letter was due to a systems error: 
the term wasnt about to end and it wouldnt take possession action. However, Ms E asked 
that Barclays provide an explanation in writing and it didnt do this straight away. It took 
Barclays a few weeks to investigate what was causing the problem and to try to fix it. During 
this time, Ms E and Mr F received further letters with an incorrect term expiry date, and a 
letter saying (wrongly) that a fee had been applied to their account.
Barclays wrote to Ms E and Mr F in September confirming the term expiry in about 30 years. 
It wrote to them again in October 2020 to apologise for the upset Ms E and Mr F were 
caused by the letters. It said this was due to an error on a third partys system which it was 
unable to fix, but it had stopped any further letters. Barclays offered £800 for the distress this 
caused and the time taken to respond to Ms E and Mr Fs concerns.  
Increase in the mortgage balance
Ms E and Mr F deferred their contractual monthly payments for six months. However, these 
payments do have to be made at some point. Interest was applied to their mortgage balance 
during the payment deferrals. As this interest wasnt paid it was added to the balance, 
increasing the amount Ms E and Mr F owe. The letters Barclays sent to Ms E and Mr F 
about the payment deferral explained this would happen.
As Ms E and Mr Fs income continued to be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, Barclays 
agreed they could make interest only payments for September to November 2020. When 
they returned to payments of capital and interest in December 2020 their contractual monthly 
payments were higher. This is because they have a higher balance to repay (due to the 
unpaid interest during the payment deferrals) and a shorter period in which to repay it (due 
to the six months break in repayments and three months of interest only payments). The 
letters Barclays sent to Ms E and Mr F about the payment deferrals said their monthly 
payments would increase after the deferral ended.
Putting things right
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Ms E and Mr F have a financial loss. 
While Barclays did make errors, its not clear to me how these errors prevented Ms E and 
Mr F from re-mortgaging. While Ms E says their broker couldnt access their mortgage 
through Barclays, she didnt provide evidence of this or explain why this meant their broker 
was unable to source a mortgage from another lender. Ms E says their mortgage wasnt in 
arrears when they first looked for another mortgage in December 2020.
While Ms E and Mr Fs mortgage balance has increased, I think this is due to the payment 
deferrals and not because of any error by Barclays.Its clear though that Barclays did make errors, and these errors caused Ms E and Mr F 
distress. In Ms Es communications with Barclays and us shes said that she and Mr F both 
have anxiety, panic attacks and insomnia, and she takes medication and goes to therapy. 
Ive taken into account what Ms E has said about the effect of Barclays errors on her and 
Mr F.
While Ms E says these problems have been going on for 16 months, I dont think thats fair. 
There was some confusion with the payment deferrals, partly due to the March payment 
being due soon after the first request was made. Barclays had a short time to put in place 
support for a large number of customers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, while its staff 
were also having to work differently. No doubt call wait times were longer than usual, and it 
was perhaps inevitable there would be some errors. Barclays agreed to the payment 
deferrals Ms E and Mr F requested and put them in place as agreed. Ms E says she had to 
call several times about the second payment deferral, and I can understand it was frustrating 
when there were problems. But from what both parties have said, I think Barclays sorted out 
these problems quickly and fairly. 
Ms E and Mr F first received a letter with the wrong maturity date in July 2020, and received 
the last in October 2020. They were immediately told this was a system error and wouldnt 
lead to any action. A letter setting out the correct term expiry was sent in September 2020. 
An explanation about the problem was sent in October, with an offer of compensation for the 
distress caused. Barclays says it cant fix the system error (which is on a third-party system) 
but it did stop further letters. Barclays took steps to sort out the problem and minimise the 
effect on Ms E and Mr F. So far as Im aware there havent been any letters with an incorrect 
maturity date since October 2020.
Ms E says their mortgage was wiped from Barclays system. The available evidence doesnt 
support this. While there is a problem with the maturity date on a third-party system, 
Barclays says the mortgage is showing correctly on its own system, and its been able to 
provide records to us which support this.
I appreciate that Ms E is worried problems will happen again, or that there will be further 
problems. I have to be fair to both parties here. Barclays did take steps to sort out problems 
when it became aware of them. I think these problems went on for three to four months. And, 
while Ms E and Mr F clearly found all this upsetting, Barclays provided reassurance 
throughout that it wouldnt take any action. In the circumstances, I think the compensation 
Barclays offered was fair and reasonable.
Ms E says they are now in arrears and cant re-mortgage. Barclays says Ms E and Mr F 
missed some payments in late 2020 and 2021, and this resulted in arrears. Im not sure if 
theres a dispute here about the account being in arrears. This wasnt part of the complaint 
that Ms E and Mr F raised with Barclays and brought to us, and so I dont make any findings 
about it here. If Ms E and Mr F believe they made payments that werent correctly applied to 
their account, they should contact Barclays about this. 
If Ms E and Mr F are in financial difficulties and struggling with their mortgage payments Id 
urge them to contact Barclays about what support it can offer. Id remind Barclays of its duty 
to treat Ms E and Mr F fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £800 to Ms E and Mr F, as it offered 
to do.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman