DRN-3315530
The complaint
Ms S complains about Grattan Plc trading as Kaleidoscope (Kaleidoscope) for not crediting 
some returned items to her account and for letting interest accrue on those items. She wants 
all disputed items removed from her account. 
What happened
Ms S held a Kaleidoscope account and regularly made purchases. She returned some 
ordered items, usually by courier collection. 
Ms S was unhappy with how some returned items appeared on her account in autumn 2020. 
She contacted Kaleidoscope and was unhappy with the responses she had received. 
She contacted us. 
Our investigator raised Ms Ss disputed items with Kaleidoscope. These items were:
Two sand coloured sweatshirts, in different sizes and sold at different prices;
A white t-shirt; 
a yellow sequined top; and 
A pair of trainers.
Kaleidoscope looked into the disputed items and agreed to amend Ms Ss account.
Kaleidoscope agreed to amend the account, so it showed that the more expensive 
sweatshirt had been returned, and adjustments were made to show the white t-shirt and 
yellow sequined top had been returned.
Kaleidoscope also agreed to adjust the interest calculations to reflect these changes and to 
remove a late fee.
Ms S was not happy with this. She says that there are two outstanding items, namely the 
remaining sweatshirt, which she says she returned in late September 2020, and a pair of 
trainers which she states she did not receive, but which were added to her account when 
she ordered them in May 2020. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that Kaleidoscope had made a reasonable offer of settlement in relation to the disputed 
items. There was insufficient evidence to show that the second sweatshirt had been 
returned, and so he thought it fair that it remain charged on the account, and Ms S had 
raised the non-arrival of the trainers too long after the order date, so evidence was not 
available to demonstrate whether they had been delivered.
Ms S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Ms S has found this matter confusing and frustrating. There have been a 
number of transactions on the account and there is a time lag between items being ordered 
or returned, and them items appearing on Ms Ss account, or being removed from it. 
I have read and agree with the factual assessment of the transactions by my colleague. Ms 
S has provided a returns receipt from the time when she says she returned the disputed 
sweatshirt, but this does not show what item it related to. 
Kaleidoscope does not accept that the sweatshirt was returned but it amended the account 
so that the less expensive one of the two was the one left on the account. The receipt 
provided by Ms S shows that an item was sent back in September 2020, but it does not 
show that this was not one of the other items which she returned around that time. 
Consequently, I am unable to conclude that the disputed sweatshirt was returned to 
Kaleidoscope and that it ought to be removed from the account. 
In respect of the trainers, I have seen the terms and conditions of the account and these 
make clear that consumers must raise a dispute about undelivered items within 3 months of 
expected delivery. 
In this case, Ms S raised a concern about these trainers around April 2021, after the order 
being placed in May 2020. This is well outside of the terms and Kaleidoscope does not have 
the mechanism to investigate the item after that length of time. As a result, I agree that it is 
fair that Kaleidoscope does not remove these from the account.
Overall, however, I accept that there were delays in items being re-credited and that this 
caused increased charges to the account. I think that Kaleidoscope has acted fairly in its 
offer to adjust the account as set out and to remove the other disputed charges. 
I therefore uphold Ms Ss complaint but think that Kaleidoscope has made a reasonable offer 
of resolution. I do not ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint, but think that Grattan Plc trading as 
Kaleidoscope has made a reasonable offer of resolution. 
I do not ask Grattan Plc trading as Kaleidoscope to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman