DRN-3869298
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Chambers & Newman Financial Services 
(Chambers) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
There is very little information available from the time of the sale. Chambers says that it 
doesnt have any records from this time, it says they are no longer available due to 
circumstances beyond its control. And Mr L also doesnt have any documentation. Mr Ls 
personal pension provider has given us some of the point of sale information, but there isnt 
anything about why the advice was given in this.  
So, Ive had to make a decision on limited information. That said, I still think Ive been able to 
reach a fair outcome in this complaint. 
As part of the complaint process Mr L, and his representative, have provided some 
information about his circumstances at the time. This shows that: 
He was aged 29 at the time of sale. 
He was married and had two children aged six and two.
He was employed earning £11,000 a year. Mrs L had an income of £7,000 a year. 
They didnt have any savings or investments. 
They had loans of around £5,000. 
Mr Ls only pension so far was the DB scheme he transferred as part of this advice.
I understand that Mr L met with a representative of Chambers at Mr Ls work around the year 
2000. He met with Chambers at an event his employer arranged so that the employees 
could get financial advice and discuss their pension arrangements. 
As a result of this contact with Chambers, Mr L transferred the deferred DB pension benefits 
he had into a personal pension and invested the proceeds. The transfer value from the DB 
pension scheme was £12,031.53 and the transfer was completed on 22 June 2000. 
 
Mr L complained in 2021 to Chambers about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he 
wasnt told about the benefits, or risks, of the transfer, and he trusted the adviser when he 
was told that the new pension would perform better. But he wasnt told that guarantees 
would be lost on the transfer and Chambers failed to fully consider his circumstances. He 
was told the transfer would leave him better off, but he says this is probably not going to be 
the case. Mr L also says he was living in rented accommodation and had no investment 
experience or capacity for loss. 
Chambers didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said:
He was made aware that guarantees would be lost on the transfer, that investment 
performance could vary and his pension fund may lose value.
His DB benefits, and the transferred fund value, were not significant so he could 
afford to risk them.
He has not suffered a loss, but he has gained due to his ability to access the funds 
earlier. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said that 
Chambers should pay compensation. The investigator essentially said that the DB scheme 
would have given Mr L a solid base for his retirement pension, and he should not have been 
advised to transfer. It wasnt likely that the transfer was in his best interests. 
Chambers disagreed, saying: 
It was likely the adviser met with Mr L after the time of sale for reviews. 
As he was still relatively young, and this scheme was a smaller part of his overall 
retirement provision. He was likely to be able to take some risk with it. 
If he had died prematurely his wife and children would have benefited from the better 
death benefits of the personal pension.
And Chambers provided a statement from the adviser as part of its response to the 
investigators opinion. He provided his recollections of the sale. He said that he met with Mr 
L a few times and then advised him not to transfer. This was partly because it wasnt likely to 
be in his best interests to do so, and the amount he had to transfer was trivial. He says that 
Mr L proceeded on an insistent customer basis.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
The advice was provided by Chambers in 2000. At this time it was regulated by the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA). Chambers was a previous member of the Life Assurance and 
Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). When the PIA took responsibility for 
LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. And these adopted rules 
applied at the time of the advice in this case. 
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the consumers best interests and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr L with this in mind.
Financial viability 
Mr L says he was told that the pension would perform better than his DB scheme at the time 
of sale. 
As Ive said above there is very little information from the time of sale. And what I do have 
doesnt detail the advice Mr L was given. And there isnt an agreement about what the 
advice was. So, I cant conclusively say what Mr L was told. 
But, as a starting point, Chambers should be able to demonstrate that it had informed Mr L 
what the risks of the DB transfer were and whether it was likely it would provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme. It seems reasonable to say the relative performance of the two 
pensions were discussed, but its not clear if Chambers did this in the way that it should 
have.  
And Chambers adviser has essentially said that the transfer didnt make a lot of sense 
financially. This is because he thought that the transfer value was too small and it wasnt 
likely to perform well enough to make it worthwhile. And Chambers has said that the transfer 
was processed on the basis that it may not provide the same benefits. But this didnt matter 
as it would only form a small part of Mr Ls total retirement planning. 
So, if Mr Ls adviser now says the transfer wasnt in Mr Ls best interests financially, I think 
its fair to say that, whether or not this was properly communicated to Mr L, it now seems 
established and agreed by both sides, that this transfer was probably not financially viable. 
Chambers has said that this wasnt important as the transfer value was small and the DB 
scheme was likely to be an insignificant part of Mr Ls overall pension planning. So, it was 
reasonable that he take some risk with it. 
Whilst the pension his DB scheme may have provided wasnt large, it would be guaranteed 
and would increase. It could have provided an important foundation for Mr Ls income in 
retirement. So, replacing this with something that was dependent on investment 
performance was a significant risk for him. 
Mr L was relatively young, at age 29, and he did have a long time until his retirement. Its 
reasonable to assume he would build up some further retirement benefits going forward. And 
given the time this fund would be invested for, its also a reasonable assumption that he 
could took some risk. 
But Mr L doesnt seem to have been an experienced investor at the time and there is no 
evidence he wanted to take a significant risk with his pension arrangements. Being 
unemployed at the time, with no savings or investments, and young children, I dont think his 
circumstances support this either. So, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for him to potentially take the risk of a lower 
retirement income and the risk this transfer represented. So, I also dont think this transfer 
was suitable for him because of this. 
For this reason alone, I think a transfer out of the DB scheme, on the balance or 
probabilities, wasnt in Mr Ls best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as Chambers has said in this case. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Chambers has said that Mr L was happy to give up the DB scheme benefits on the basis that 
he would gain some flexibility in retirement.
But Ive not seen any evidence from the time of sale that Mr L required this flexibility. Ive not 
seen anything that shows he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also cant 
see evidence that Mr L had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. 
These two things dont seem to have been discussed. 
And, as Ive said above, Mr L was giving up a guaranteed income here which would increase 
over time. Whilst it wasnt established how much income he wanted at retirement I dont see 
why this income wouldnt potentially be important to him. So, Im satisfied Mr L was likely to 
have better served his income needs in retirement through the DB scheme at age 60 or 65. 
Furthermore, Mr L was only 29 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr L had at least 31 years before he could think 
about accessing this pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr 
L to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would be. If Mr L later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so 
closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr L. And Ive noted that 
Chambers has said this was the primary reason for the transfer. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that Chambers explored to what extent Mr L was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr L 
was married and had children and so the spouse and dependents pensions provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr L predeceased them. I dont think 
Chambers made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr L. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Chambers should not have encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Chambers shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And Im not persuaded 
that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
Chambers recommended that Mr L invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr L, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr L should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But 
Chambers wasnt there to just transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr L needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think any advice given to Mr L to transfer would have been suitable. He 
was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr L was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr L shouldnt have been advised 
to transfer out of the scheme due to the potential for higher death benefits. This wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I think Chambers shouldve 
advised Mr L to remain in his DB scheme for these reasons.
Chambers has said that the advice to transfer was suitable. But its also said recently that it 
advised Mr L not to transfer and that he was an insistent customer. But the adviser has 
qualified this by saying this was because the transfer value was trivial.  
This doesnt lead me to think that Chambers conclusively gave Mr L full advice as to why the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests. It could have simply been that the adviser didnt think it 
was worth their while.  
And as Ive said above Mr L invested in a range of funds, and some of these were higher 
risk, albeit balanced by lower risk funds. Again its not clear what happened at the point of 
sale but I think its very unlikely that Mr L chose these funds, and this portfolio approach of 
managing risk, himself. As Ive outlined above he seems to be an inexperienced investor 
who didnt have the knowledge to do this himself. Consequently, I dont think its likely that 
Chambers simply told Mr L not to proceed, as it now seems to suggest. 
So, I have to consider whether Mr L would've gone ahead anyway if Chambers had advised 
Mr L not to proceed with the DB transfer as it wasnt in his best interests. And just to be clear 
Chambers hasnt said it did this. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Chambers advice. I understand Mr L was an 
inexperienced investor and his circumstances seemed modest at the time. This pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ls private retirement provision so far. So, if Chambers had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ls want to improve his death benefits or have a more flexible 
retirement arrangement (if he did have these wants) were so great that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, 
didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Chambers had explained that Mr 
L could perhaps meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr L would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Chambers should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Chambers also pay L £200 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr L has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr L whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr L.Chambers must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
Chambers may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date Chambers receives 
notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Chambers to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Chambers to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Chambers should also pay Mr L £200. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chambers & Newman 
Financial Services to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Chambers & Newman Financial Services to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Chambers 
& Newman Financial Services to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Chambers & Newman Financial Services pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chambers & Newman 
Financial Services.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman