DRN-2600714
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE misled her into providing an expert report to 
support a legal expense claim where there were no prospects of success. Consequently, 
shed like the cost of that report to be refunded.
Mrs N is represented in this complaint, but Ill just refer to her although representations have 
been made on her behalf.
Great Lakes had agents handling the claim, but Ill just refer to Great Lakes as theyre the 
responsible business.
What happened
Mrs N became involved in a dispute with a construction company. She made a claim under 
the legal expenses section of an insurance policy to bring a claim against the company. 
Great Lakes instructed panel solicitors on two occasions to assess the prospects of success. 
Both solicitors formed a view that there was less than a 51% chance of successful recovery 
and the claim was declined. Mrs Ns main complaint is that she was instructed to get an 
expert report which she believed was, in the circumstances, unnecessary. This was because 
the solicitors reasons for lack of prospects centred on the fact that the proposed 
defendant(s) lacked financial means to settle a successful claim. And its the cost of this 
unnecessary report Mrs N wants refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue at the heart of the complaint centres on the cost of the report. For completeness 
though it is standard for policies like Mrs Ns to require any potential legal expense claim to 
have reasonable prospects of success. In summary and like other policies, Mrs Ns defines 
this as a 51% or greater chance that she will recover her losses. 
The first legal opinion clearly states that the company with which Mrs N had contracted had 
been trading for just 18 months and appeared to have little if any assets  there being no 
trading accounts filed. The opinion concluded that the prospects of recovering a county court 
judgment against the company because of the financial position was less than 51%.  
The opinion also stated that even if Mrs N could show another party was responsible it would 
still need to be ascertained that they have sufficient funds. And there was general guidance 
given on aspects of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. The solicitors final paragraphs clearly 
stated there was no insurance funding to procure an expert report or for the report itself and 
these would need to be borne by Mrs N. And issuing legal proceedings would need to be at 
Mrs Ns expense too given the lack of prospects of success. Given the contents of the letter 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ns submission that she was instructed to obtain an expert report, 
or that such a report would increase the chances of the claim being pursued. To the 
contrary, it was made very clear the major hurdle was the lack of assets and funds held by 
the proposed defendant.
A second set of solicitors were instructed by Great Lakes after receiving further information 
from Mrs N. The legal opinion of February 2020 stated the proposed defendant company 
had dissolved in late 2019 and so there was no company, or legal entity, existing to bring the 
claim against. Mrs N disagreed with the legal advice and has been invited to send his own 
legal report from a solicitor, but such a report wasnt sent. As matters stand, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes has acted within the policy terms and treated Mrs N fairly. Great Lakes has paid 
for and obtained suitable legal advice and is entitled to rely on that, unless obviously wrong. 
Both legal opinions obtained under the policy support the lack of reasonable prospects and 
theres nothing presented by Mrs N that persuades me those opinions were obviously wrong. 
In summary, Im satisfied Great Lakes has demonstrated that Mrs Ns claim lacked 
reasonable prospects of success and that was based on relevant legal advice regarding the 
companys financial position and later dissolution. Im not persuaded Mrs N was instructed to 
obtain an expert report on the express or implied basis that it would increase her chances of 
her claim being pursued by Great Lakes. Great Lakes has offered to review any legal 
opinion Mrs N provides that supports her claim having reasonable prospects of success. Im 
satisfied thats a fair approach.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman