DRN-1633051
 
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by MBNA Limited.
What happened
Mrs H took out a credit card with MBNA in 2002. At the same time, it sold Mrs H a PPI policy 
to help protect her card repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. MBNA disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
MBNA didnt advise Mrs H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to look into whether the policy 
was right for her. But it still had to make sure Mrs H had enough information so she could 
make her own mind up as to whether it was right for her. I dont think MBNA did this.
When MBNA told Mrs H the cost of the policy, I cant see that it explained all the costs 
involved. For example, that Mrs H would still have to pay the PPI premiums even while she 
was claiming. And that the cost of the policy would be added to Mrs Hs credit card balance 
and that shed pay interest on it. 
Mrs H says her employer  of over fours years by 2002  would have paid her in full for up to 
three months if she was off work sick and possibly for longer albeit at her managers 
discretion. Further, she says she had no household bills as she was living rent-free with her 
parents. All of which seems plausible to me. The PPI paid out only 3% of the outstanding 
balance each month. So, I think if the costs and benefits involved in the PPI had been made 
clear, Mrs H wouldnt have thought it was good value for money and she probably wouldnt 
have bought it.
MBNA says Mrs H was unlikely to have been entitled to as much sick pay as she claims 
since she was only with her employer for around a month when she bought the PPI. Its 
provided a copy of what it says was information gathered at the time of the sale in support.
However, MBNA hasnt adequately explained how it came to know Mrs Hs length of service 
when she wasnt asked about that in the application form, she completed, signed and 
returned to it. Perhaps it got this information by other means, but Im not prepared to assume 
thats the case in the circumstances.Taking into account the uncertainty as to how MBNA came by the information its relying on, 
and the plausibility of Mrs Hs submissions, I think shes lost out as a result of what MBNA 
did wrong. It should put things right for her.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. MBNA should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when MBNA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H would 
have owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require MBNA Limited to put 
things right for Mrs H as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman