DRN-3986404
Complaint
Mrs G has complained about a loan JN Bank UK Ltd (trading as JN Bank) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable as she already had a high level of existing debt and 
therefore it shouldnt have been provided to her.
Background
JN Bank provided Mrs G with a loan for £5,000.00 in September 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 14.9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,948.60, including interest, fees and charges of £1,948.60, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of just over £115.81. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint and he thought JN Bank shouldnt have 
provided Mrs G with her loan as it ought to have realised that it was unaffordable for her. So 
he thought that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. JN Bank didnt agree with our 
investigators assessment. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision, 
as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Gs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
JN Bank needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is JN 
Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs G 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information JN Bank has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before this 
loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mrs G was already heavily indebted 
and a significant proportion of her monthly income was going towards repaying credit 
commitments. 
Ive also considered that the recorded purpose of this loan appears to have been debt 
consolidation. However, the amount advanced wasnt enough to clear Ms Bs debts. In these 
circumstances, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially just how the provision of this loan was going to reduce Mrs Gs outgoings (and 
leave her in a better position) going forward. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mrs G has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mrs Gs previous credit difficulties 
reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types 
of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments 
from JN Bank, Ive been persuaded to accept Mrs Gs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Gs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown JN Bank that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs G. As JN Bank provided 
Mrs G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. 
Mrs G ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs G lost out because of what JN Bank did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what JN Bank needs to do to put things right for Mrs G
Having thought about everything, JN Bank should put things right for Mrs G by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs G made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£5,000.00 originally lent. If Mr H has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then        
JN Bank should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mrs G;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs G to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information JN Bank recorded about this loan should be removed from Mrs Gs credit 
file.
If an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made,        
JN Bank should get in contact with Mr H to arrange an affordable payment plan. Id 
also remind JN Bank of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration, 
in the event it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it be the case that   
Mrs G is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. JN Bank UK Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman