DRN-3761986
The complaint
Mr D complains NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams Finance (NewDay) failed to handle a 
dispute over a payment for airline flights in a fair way.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties involved, so I will not narrate 
everything that has happened. However, to summarise:
Mr D paid for flights with an airline I will call TA through an online travel agent I will 
call TU. The tickets cost £1,039.12 for flights due to depart and return in September 
2020. Mr D used his NewDay credit card to pay for the flights, and the payment went 
to TU.
Mr D needed to make some changes to the booking, which he says he found difficult 
due to the customer service he received from TU. In the end he was able to make the 
changes for a fee of £354 paid to TU on a later date.
Due to the coronavirus pandemic, TA cancelled Mr Ds flights.1 He has been trying to 
obtain a refund since but has not been able to obtain one from either TA or TU.
In September 2020, Mr D contacted NewDay to help him get a refund. He was asked 
to provide details of the dispute, after which NewDay attempted what is known as a 
chargeback to reclaim the funds from TU. 
TU defended the chargeback in relation to the £1,039.12 payment, saying they were 
just a booking agent and not responsible for the cancellation of the flights or 
providing refunds. NewDay accepted TUs defence and decided not to pursue the 
refund any further. It reversed a temporary refund it had given Mr D.
TU did not defend the chargeback in relation to the £354 fee to change the booking, 
so this refund was not reversed.
Mr D was unhappy with how NewDay had handled the matter and made a complaint. 
NewDay accepted that it hadnt communicated well and there had been some instances of 
poor service, for which it offered £25 compensation. However, it stood by its decision not to 
pursue the refund further, adding that Mr D additionally did not have a valid claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the case. He 
concluded NewDay hadnt acted reasonably in deciding not to pursue the dispute further, 
citing guidance from the card scheme (Mastercard) which he said showed TUs defence to 
1 This was originally disputed. However, TA has confirmed in recent correspondence with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service that Mr Ds flights were cancelled. TA did operate flights on or around 
the date Mr D had been due to fly, but they were not open to tourists.
the chargeback had been invalid. Our investigator concluded that, if it was now too late for 
NewDay to pursue the chargeback further, it should treat him as though it had done so 
successfully and pay Mr D £1,039.12 along with compensatory interest. NewDay disagreed 
and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services on a credit card, their card issuer may be able to 
help when something goes wrong with the purchase. This may be because they have a legal 
obligation to consider a claim under section 75 of the CCA, or because they are able to 
dispute the payment via the dispute resolution mechanisms run by the card schemes.
Section 75 of the CCA
There hasnt been much focus on the question of whether Mr D could have made a 
successful section 75 claim against NewDay. This is because our investigator considered 
Mr D should have been entitled to a refund via the chargeback process. NewDay say Mr D 
could not have had a successful claim because he paid TU using his credit card, but the 
flights were to be provided by TA.
Without going into the technical detail, in most circumstances a person can only make a 
claim under section 75 in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
company that has been paid using the credit card. In Mr Ds case, thats TU. NewDay 
appear to be saying that because the flights were cancelled by TA, theres not been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by TU in respect of which Mr D can make a claim.
I follow this logic, but I think NewDay have missed the fact that, as Mr Ds booking agent, TU 
had contractual responsibilities to him too. TUs booking conditions at the time of Mr Ds 
booking said, for example, that it will pass on any refunds received from airlines in the event 
flights are cancelled. We recently heard from TA, which said it had refunded the cost of 
Mr Ds flights (minus change fees) to TU in September 2022. It appears Mr D has still not 
received a refund from TU, so I think it is at least arguable it is in breach of contract now.
In any event, this doesnt matter as like our investigator I think NewDay ought to have 
pursued the chargeback more robustly, for reasons Ill explain.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, a card issuer can attempt to claim a refund of a payment, or
part of it, under the dispute resolution process operated by the card scheme to which the
card belongs (in this case, Mastercard). Disputing a payment in this way is usually known as 
a chargeback.
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed and can be challenged (defended) by the other 
side to the dispute. The other side will normally be the merchant from whom a person made 
their purchase. The chargeback process can go through multiple stages and ends when 
either side to the dispute concedes, or the card scheme itself is asked to make a ruling on 
the case.
A consumer cannot demand that their card issuer attempts a chargeback, and that is
because it is not a consumer right. However, I would expect the card issuer to attempt a
chargeback as a matter of good practice, so long as the chargeback would meet the criteriaset out by the card scheme and would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding. I would
also expect a card issuer to administer the chargeback process in a competent way and not
make errors. 
In this case, NewDay did attempt a chargeback, and TU defended it on the basis that it was 
not responsible for providing the flights  it was just a booking agent. NewDay accepted this 
defence, so I have needed to decide whether, in accepting the defence, NewDay made an 
error.
Our investigator noted that TU was the merchant of record for Mr Ds purchase. When 
saying this he was referring to a document published by Mastercard on 1 May 2020. Titled 
Dispute Resolution Management During COVID-19, it provided guidance for participants in 
the Mastercard network on how to deal with common chargeback scenarios. It contained the 
following question, along with Mastercards answer:
Question: The cardholders flight has been cancelled and the transaction was billed by an 
online travel agent (OTA). The OTA tells the cardholder that they are only responsible for 
making the reservation and not providing the flight. Does an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: Yes. In these circumstances, Mastercard would view the OTA as the merchant of 
record, and an agent of the travel supplier, regardless of the terms and conditions disclosed 
to the cardholder. Under Mastercard Standards, the OTA, by accepting payment for the 
service purchased by the cardholder (e.g. flight) and not just for handling the reservation, 
assumes responsibility for chargebacks if the service is not provided. The OTA should work 
closely with its travel partners or travel suppliers to avoid a cardholder getting reimbursed 
twice for the same transaction.
As a card issuer, this is guidance I would have expected NewDay to be aware of. I think it 
clearly applies to Mr Ds set of circumstances, and shows that the defence put forward by TU 
was invalid and should not have been accepted. It follows that I consider NewDay, in 
deciding not to pursue the chargeback further, made an error. By not doing so it wrongly 
deprived Mr D of the opportunity to receive a refund via this route. While its not possible to 
know for sure what the outcome of the chargeback would have been, had NewDay pursued 
it more robustly, I think the guidance from Mastercard is a good indication that it would have 
been successful.
So, like our investigator, I think NewDay should put Mr D in the position he would have been 
in, had the chargeback been pursued to a successful conclusion. Thats to say it will need to 
treat him as though it had never reversed the initial refund of £1,039.12.
Customer service
NewDay paid Mr D £25 in respect of customer service failings  specifically, providing some 
incorrect information on a phone call. This appears to be fair given the incorrect information 
had a limited impact. I note Mr D has been much delayed in receiving a refund due to 
NewDays errors, but he will receive compensatory interest to reflect that, which I will outline 
below.
Putting things right
NewDay must put Mr D back in the position hed have been in, had the chargeback of 
£1,039.12 been successful. This will mean NewDay must do the following:
A) Refund £1,039.12 to Mr D, backdated to the day it reversed the refund of this amount 
after it received the defence to the chargeback from TU.B) Refund any interest, fees or charges Mr D incurred as a result of it reversing the 
refund initially. 
C) If backdating the refund as explained in A) would mean Mr D would have had a 
credit balance on his credit card account at any point, NewDay must pay 8% simple 
interest per year* on this credit balance, from the date it would have come into 
existence to the date it would have ceased. 
D) Alternatively, if NewDay considers calculating compensatory interest as directed in 
C) would be impractical then it may instead pay 8% simple interest per year* on 
£1,039.12 calculated from the date it reversed the refund, to the date it reinstates the 
refund.
E) Remove any negative information it may have recorded on Mr Ds credit file as a 
consequence of it reversing the refund of £1,039.12.
*If NewDay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I referred earlier in this decision to TA having confirmed it paid a refund to TU in respect of 
Mr Ds flights in September 2022. It is possible this means TU may eventually refund Mr D.
If this happens Mr D will have been refunded twice for the same transaction and it would be 
fair and reasonable for him to pass on any refund he receives to NewDay. I cannot compel 
him to do this however, as my decision is binding only on NewDay.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons explained above and direct NewDay Ltd to take 
the steps set out in the putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman