DRN-1862860
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1996 Mrs M took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mrs M's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% 
of the outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs M returned to 
work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs 
M owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs M was employed, and she said she couldn't remember her sick 
pay entitlement.  She said she had six months' or more in savings she could've used to 
make her repayments - although she appears to have indicated these were earmarked for 
something. Mrs M also said she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs M paid around £900 for PPI in total and the account ended in 2005.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the available 
evidence showed that Mrs M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate 
it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs M's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs M was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint and my reasons are set out below.
did Mrs M have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
Mrs M says she didn't know she had PPI. I've therefore considered this carefully.Having done so, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs M didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs M's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to tick next to the statement: 
"Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance..." if they 
wanted to take out PPI. And in Mrs M's case she ticked the box. If Mrs M didn't want to take 
out PPI she could've left this section blank. 
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Mrs M's account statements 
for several years (she spent a not inconsiderable amount during the account's lifetime, so I 
think she would've noticed them.) If she didn't recognise what they were because she hadn't 
agreed to take out the cover, I might've expected her to have queried it with AXA at the time.
So, overall I think AXA made it clear that PPI was optional and that Mrs M chose to take it 
out. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs M to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mrs M. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, 
so she could make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence about an event which happened over 20 years ago, I 
accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale took place in a non-financial business 
there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, Mrs M chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking 
out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have 
to pay back to Mrs M what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said in bringing her complaint. But these points 
don't change my decision. For the reasons above I don't uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman