DRN-2962388
The complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about a claim she made on her home insurance policy with a high street 
lender, which was underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) at the time of the claim. 
Whilst the claim was accepted, shes not happy that UKI wont underpin her home as part of 
the repairs. 
What happened
Mrs E took out her home insurance policy with UKI in 2012. In the spring of 2018, she 
became aware that some cracking to her home that had developed over time might be due 
to a problem with the building. She contacted UKI, but decided not to progress a claim at 
that time. She arranged for a local builder to look at the damage, and the builder believed 
the damage had been caused by subsidence. Mrs E contacted UKI again and it sent out its 
subsidence experts to assess the damage and determine what the cause was. 
UKIs subsidence experts said the damage could be due to subsidence but there could be 
other causes (such as a lack of restraint in the roof). It was decided some site investigations 
needed to be done.  It was also noted that there were pins present in the exterior walls, 
which indicated the property had been monitored for movement at some point in the past. 
In late 2018 UKI appointed new experts and they completed investigations into the ground 
conditions and Mrs Es foundations. The investigations were done in the early months of 
2019 but it wasnt obvious what had caused the movement in the property. Although it was 
thought that a possible leak on the incoming mains water pipe could have caused movement 
to the free-standing garage.  
UKI decided to monitor the property to see if it was actively moving. The monitoring done 
between the spring of 2019 to January 2020 showed that the property wasnt moving. UKI 
explained this to Mrs E in January 2020.  However, Mrs E wasnt convinced, and was 
adamant the property was suffering from current subsidence and needed to be underpinned. 
She also told UKI that the cracks in the property had got worse. As such, UKIs engineer 
visited the property in late January 2020. He believed the damage had been caused by 
subsidence at some point, so there was a valid claim, but he thought all the evidence there 
was at that point indicated the property was stable. In order to reassure Mrs E, it was agreed 
that the property would be monitored for a further period. 
The engineering report produced at that point confirmed the property was built on silty, 
gravelly clay. This clay had a low to moderate shrinkability, so it was unlikely that it had 
shrunk due to dehydration and subsidence had resulted, although it was noted there had 
been a large tree close to the area of the property that had moved most, and it had been 
removed around the time the monitoring started. In addition, it was noted that the clay was 
soft up to 1.2m below ground level at the left-hand side of the house, becoming very soft 
below that. The soil at the other end of the site was confirmed as being soft for the entire 
depth of the sampling  2.5m.
The monitoring of the property showed some slight movements, but there wasnt a 
downward trend to them  they moved up and down throughout the seasons, as would be 
expected with most properties. The engineer concluded the likely cause of the foundation 
movement was the weight of the building causing some consolidation of the very soft clay 
beneath its foundations at the left-hand end of the house. However, the monitoring showed 
that there was no progressive downward movement, and the engineer was satisfied the 
property was stable and could be repaired. It was also confirmed that the engineer was 
satisfied the cracking to the remainder of the property was minor and not linked to 
subsidence.
There were ongoing discussions with Mrs E throughout the first half of 2020 about the 
property. This involved UKIs saying the property was stable and could be repaired without 
underpinning and Mrs Es belief and insistence that it should be underpinned. 
In the middle of 2020 UKI had finished the further period of monitoring and this again 
showed the property was stable and only subject to normal, very small amounts of 
seasonable movement. So UKI offered to arrange for the repairs to be completed. Mrs E 
refused to allow the repairs to be done unless UKI agreed to underpin the property. She also 
reported that there were doors and windows in the property that were sticking. UKI said it 
that it could have its contractor ease the sticking when the schedule of works was drawn up. 
Mrs E declined the offer. She also made a complaint about UKIs handling of the claim and 
its proposals to repair her home.
In order to again reassure Mrs E about the stability of the property, UKI agreed to monitor 
the property for movement until the end of 2020. It said that if the property was shown to be 
stable, it would move to repair. In addition, it said that when it came to the point repairs were 
to be done, it could arrange for a meeting at her home to talk Mrs E through the repairs that 
were going to be done. It confirmed that if the property was stable at that point, it would be 
for Mrs E to prove that it needed underpinning. 
UKI responded to Mrs Es complaint. It said there was no evidence to indicate the property 
needed underpinning and the monitoring had confirmed the property was stable. It was 
satisfied repairs could be started, but confirmed it would be doing a further six months of 
monitoring to give Mrs E further reassurance.  
Mrs E didnt accept UKIs position and referred her complaint to this service. When the 
complaint was allocated to one of our investigators, Mrs E explained the cracks had 
appeared gradually over time and she filled them without making a claim. It wasnt until a 
friend visited in early 2018 and told Mrs E that the cracking could be due to subsidence and 
she should contact her insurer to have the property underpinned, that she reported the issue 
to UKI. Mrs E reported that the cracks (indoor and out) had become worse since Christmas 
2019. She said there were now gaps between the windows and walls. Mrs W also explained 
that she thought the problem might be with the type of foundation she had and mentioned 
that there was a marsh nearby that nothing was allowed to be built on. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. However, she was satisfied the evidence 
showed that UKIs decision not to underpin the property was reasonable. She also found that 
the offer of an additional six months monitoring to reassure Mrs E that the property was 
stable before repairs, followed by more monitoring after repairs were complete, was fair. 
Mrs E didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She commissioned her own engineering 
report. The engineer concluded the left-hand gable of Mrs Es house had suffered significant 
downward movement and this had resulted in cracking to the front and rear elevations. It 
said the site investigations completed by UKI were inadequate in its opinion and this had 
resulted in a lack of clarity as to the cause of the movement. In addition, it questioned the 
results from the investigations that were done, as it said its experience was that the soil type 
in the area was not clay, but rather soft alluvial silts with bands of peat overlying sands. The 
engineer postulated that there might be clay because of a nearby stream and that a layer of peat could be beneath the clay, which might have contributed to the movement. This was 
because peat can become unstable if ground water levels change. 
The engineer concluded that the investigations hadnt been extensive enough and detailed 
what investigations it thought should be done. This included digging additional trial pits along 
the length of the gable wall and a comparison pit at the opposite end of the house at the 
back, rather than the front as UKI had done. The engineer also recommended a bore hole 
be taken to determine what the soil type was at a deeper level than the 2.5m UKIs experts 
had established. It said this would give a greater certainty about the future behaviour of the 
foundations and superstructure. 
UKI considered the content of Mrs Es engineering report. It highlighted that the engineer 
had focused on the adequacy of the site investigations, but he hadnt commented on the 
monitoring results and what they showed about the property. UKI said that the engineer had 
criticised it for using remote data and conjecture, but then went on to do the exact same 
thing. It went on to say that the engineer seemed to have failed to have understood the 
purpose of the site investigations  to determine if there were any mitigating actions it could 
take to stop any movement, if indeed there was any movement. UKI said that the ground 
conditions under Mrs Es home might be poor and there might also be peat at a depth, but 
unless progressive movement is evidenced then it was able to move to repair. 
In addition, UKI said that the property had been ready to be repaired for some time. It said it 
was willing to make a cash settlement for the claim, less any excess, and Mrs E could put 
the money toward the costs of an engineer and contractor of her choice. 
Our investigator considered the new report from Mrs Es engineer and UKIs comments 
about it. Whilst she accepted that the monitoring showed there wasnt any requirement for 
the property to be underpinned at the present time, she thought UKI should repeat the site 
investigations in line with the suggestions of Mrs Es engineer.  
UKI didnt agree to complete further investigations. It said that the ultimate purpose of site 
investigations and monitoring is to ensure the stability of a property. These investigations 
have shown the property was stable. UKI again said it thought it was revealing that Mrs Es 
engineer hadnt commented on the monitoring reports and the stability of the property, only 
the ground investigations. It repeated that it had over a period of 16 months proved that the 
property was stable and in that situation its obligation was to repair the damage caused by 
the subsidence. It said it had tried to do this and Mrs E had prevented it each time. It 
reiterated its offer to settle the claim in cash so that she could put the money toward 
underpinning the property if she wanted to do so.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
Following this, Mrs E said the cracks in her walls are getting worse and going deeper into the 
concrete. She said that her engineer had explained to her that if the investigations and works 
arent done properly, she will be back to square one. Mrs E also expressed concerns about 
what could happen to her home if the subsidence wasnt stopped. Around this time, she 
again contacted the business her branded insurance policy was with. The current 
underwriter of the insurance policy sent out a firm of loss adjusters to look at the property 
again. 
The second loss adjusters detailed the damage to Mrs Es property, and it matched that 
which had been documented by UKIs loss adjuster in early 2019, including the width of the 
cracks. It concluded that the damage was the same as was being claimed for against UKI 
and so the new underwriter shouldnt involve itself further.Subsequently Mrs Es son wrote to us and confirmed that Mrs E had arranged for two 
separate subsidence surveyors to assess her property and both had determined that the 
property needed to be supported structurally/underpinned. He said that despite these 
opinions, UKI had not progressed the case and had left his mother in a very troubling 
situation with no resolution. He said that having seen the property condition, he was 
concerned the property was becoming increasingly dangerous for Mrs E to live in, and her 
neighbours to live besides, and it was only a matter of time before the issues escalated and 
there was potentially a collapse. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2021, which set out my conclusions and my reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
UKI has accepted liability for the damage to Mrs Es home and the dispute revolves around 
whether it should, as part of the repairs, underpin the property. Mrs E believes the property 
is still moving and that it needs underpinning; UKI on the other hand, is satisfied there is no 
progressive movement and, therefore, the property doesnt need underpinning.
Before I consider the engineering evidence in this case, I believe it would be appropriate to 
explain an insurers obligations in relation to a subsidence claim. Under the terms and 
conditions of an insurance policy, an insurer is only required to repair the damage caused by 
an insured event. So technically, all the policy would require of UKI is to repair the cracks in 
the above ground structure (superstructure) of the property. However, the insurer is also 
required to provide a lasting repair. This means in real terms the insurer needs to stop the 
subsidence before it can repair the superstructure, or the repairs will fail quickly thereafter. It 
will only be required to complete structural stabilisation works (such as underpinning) if there 
is progressive movement in the property. If there has been movement in the past, but there 
isnt any at the time of the claim, the insurer wouldnt be required to complete stabilisation 
works. The insurer is not expected to complete preventative works, designed to stop any 
possibility of movement in the future.
I would also explain that most buildings will move slightly throughout the year due to 
seasonal changes in the ground beneath the foundations. This is called seasonal movement 
and because the amount of movement is small and not long-standing (there will movement 
down and back up again), it doesnt cause damage to the fabric of the building or its 
foundations. This type of movement is normal and doesnt require the building to be 
structurally reinforced below ground level. Indeed, doing so when its not needed can create 
problems of its own.
When a claim is made for subsidence damage, the insurer will investigate its cause and 
assess whether the property is moving and, if it is, why. These investigations will often 
involve establishing the type of ground the property has been built on, whether there is 
vegetation nearby and if there are any faults with the local drainage system. This is to 
establish what the cause of the subsidence is/was. Level monitoring will also often be done 
to establish if the property is moving. If a property is moving, the insurer will carry out works 
to stop the movement. These works wont necessarily involve making alterations to the 
structure of the property (such as underpinning). Often subsidence will be caused by an 
external factor, such as vegetation dehydrating clay soils or leaking drains washing away 
small particles from the soil. If the external factor is removed, then the subsidence will 
usually stop, and that is all the insurer is required to do in such circumstances. 
I have considered Mrs Es engineers assessment of the property. The report essentially just 
set out what investigations it would have done had it been commissioned to investigate the 
subsidence and that it considers UKIs investigations, because UKI did fewer trial pits than it 
would have and didnt do a deep borehole, was inadequate. The reason it seemed to think the investigations were inadequate was because they didnt identify whether there was peat 
beneath the 2.5m of clay and below the water table, which could be affected by changes to 
the water table and potentially have been responsible for the subsidence. The engineer 
didnt comment on the monitoring results or voice an opinion on whether the property was 
stable.
UKI has said the subsidence, whenever it happened, was due to the soft clay the property 
was built on, although the tree that was removed might have had an influence. However, 
over the period the monitoring was done, there wasnt progressive movement. What 
movement there was, was slight and of a seasonal nature and so wasnt causing any 
damage to the property. So it was satisfied the property didnt need underpinning. 
Mrs E has said at various points during UKIs investigation into the complaint that the cracks 
at her home were worsening and she believed the property was still moving. UKI detailed the 
crack damage to Mrs Es home in the spring of 2019. The second loss adjusting company 
that attended Mrs Es home at the end of 2020 did the same. While Mrs E believes the 
cracks were worsening, the second report doesnt indicate that was the case. For example, 
the crack at the rear window in the master bedroom was the widest crack in the property at 
3 mm width. It is also described as being 3 mm wide in the second loss adjusters report 
around 18 months later.  
Based on the evidence I have, I dont think there is any substantive evidence UKI was wrong 
in its conclusions that the property was stable throughout the period of the claim. In that 
circumstance, there is no requirement for it to underpin the property or complete any other 
form of foundation support. Whilst I can understand that Mrs E might want such works done 
so that there is no possibility that the property could move again at some point in the future, 
that isnt what an insurance policy is designed to do. I cant find that UKI has done anything 
wrong in refusing to underpin Mrs Es home. 
In relation to the investigations Mrs Es engineer would have done if it had investigated the 
subsidence, I dont think its comments add substantively to the evidence. Different engineers 
will have different opinions about the type, extent and order of investigations into a problem. 
The fact that Mrs Es engineer might have investigated the movement slightly differently 
doesnt mean UKIs investigations were inadequate or that the conclusion it came to about 
the subsidence was wrong. In light of this, I dont consider I can require UKI to complete 
more investigations or to pay the cost of the report, as it didnt alter the outcome of the claim.
I know my findings will disappoint Mrs E, but I dont propose to ask UKI to expand its scope 
of repairs to include underpinning of the property nor do I consider it needs to do further 
investigations. 
UKI has said that it will repair the property if Mrs E allows it to. Alternatively, if she isnt 
willing to let it do so, it will settle the claim by paying her the cost of the repairs. Insurers 
usually complete subsidence repairs to ensure they are done properly, as subsidence is a 
somewhat specialist area of work. As such, I would recommend Mrs E give serious thought 
to whether she will allow UKI to repair her home or not.
UKI responded to my provisional decision. It said that it had been trying to repair the 
property since early 2020 and believed that it would be unfair on it to have to again deal with 
any delays in trying to arrange and carry out the repairs. As such, it considers the only 
possible option left for it is to cash settle the claim based on the scope of works previously 
compiled. It also highlighted that the terms and conditions of the policy allow it to choose to 
do this. Mrs E responded by highlighting various areas of damage caused by the subsidence that 
needed to be included in the repairs. Included in this were concerns about damage caused 
by UKIs contractor to the drainage and hardstanding at the side of the garage during 
investigations. She said that the area had experienced poor drainage since. She asked that I 
set out in my final decision the repairs that I required UKI to complete. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has said that rather than it being Mrs Es choice about how the claim should be settled, 
it now wants to make that decision and it wants to settle the claim in cash. As I know UKI is 
aware, where an insurer has entered into a contract to repair, as UKI has here, it can only be 
released from that contract if the policyholder agrees to it or the policyholder has frustrated 
the contract. 
It appears that Mrs E has now accepted, following our explanations, that her home doesnt 
need to be underpinned and she wants to move to it being repaired. It would also appear 
that she wants UKI to do those repairs. 
Prior to the complaint being referred to this service, UKIs position was that it was willing to 
do the repairs and that prior to doing so, it would arrange a meeting at Mrs Es home to talk 
her through the repairs that would be done. It later said that it would pay Mrs E a cash 
settlement at her request if she wanted to get her home underpinned and use the value of 
the claim toward those costs. These options were entirely reasonable and despite its 
response to my provisional decision, I believe it should maintain this position, as I dont 
consider Mrs E frustrated the contract to repair, given how UKI dealt with her concerns. 
Indeed, it would appear the only reason for the delays in this case was a lack of 
understanding, which seems to be due to poor communication between the parties. I would 
also remind UKI that it even if it hadnt entered into a contract to repair Mrs Es home, it is 
good industry practice for an insurer to complete subsidence repairs, even where its policy 
gives it the right to cash settle if it wishes to do so.
Mrs E has detailed the damage to her home she wants repaired as part of the subsidence 
claim. She wants me to set out in detail the damage UKI should repair in this decision. That 
isnt something I will be doing. There isnt currently a dispute about the scope of works, other 
than whether stabilisation works are needed and so its not appropriate for me to list what 
I think should be repaired  thats a matter for the technical specialists involved in the claim. 
However, if Mrs E accepts UKIs offer to walk her through the repairs, she can ensure UKI is 
aware of all the damage she believes is linked to her claim and any questions she has can 
be discussed as part of that process. I would also suggest that if there are any areas of 
damage that she and UKI dont agree on, she allows the repairs they do agree on, to start. 
Any discussions about areas of disagreement can be dealt with separately.
In relation to Mrs Es concerns about the drainage near her garage and damage having been 
caused by UKIs contractors. This matter isnt something that this service has investigated as 
it wasnt part of her original complaint. As such, I can only suggest she ask UKI to look into 
the issue separately to the repairs to the fabric of her home. In the meantime, I would 
recommend Mrs E allows UKI to complete the repairs to her home.
Having considered the further comments of the parties, my conclusions remain the same. I 
dont uphold this complaint because I am satisfied the evidence shows Mrs Es home is 
stable and can be repaired. If Mrs E changes her mind about UKI repairing her home and 
would prefer a cash settlement, she should inform UKI as soon as possible. In the meantime, I leave it to UKI to make contact with Mrs E to make the necessary arrangements 
for the repairs to start. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 
7 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman