DRN-3462098
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his account and lodged a 
fraud marker against him.
What happened
Nationwide received a report from another bank that indicated Mr A had received funds he 
wasnt entitled to. Nationwide carried out a review of the account and decided to close it 
immediately and lodged a marker with CIFAS  a national fraud prevention organisation.
Mr A complained about this and didnt believe the closure was fair or that Nationwide were 
entitled to lodge a marker against him. Nationwide looked into the complaint but didnt 
change their position. Mr A then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our adjudicators.
Mr A was asked about the incoming payment that had triggered the fraud report and 
described it as repayment for an earlier loan to his friend. Our investigator considered the 
information provided by both parties and thought that it was reasonable for Nationwide to 
close the account in the manner they did but thought that they didnt have the appropriate 
level of evidence required to lodge a fraud marker with CIFAS.
Nationwide disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint.
Its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main aspects to this complaint, one being the closure of the account and the 
second being the marker applied by Nationwide.
Account closure
Nationwide can close an account immediately under certain conditions which are set out in 
the terms for the account agreed between them and Mr A. Once Nationwide had received 
the report from the other bank, they reviewed their relationship with him. At this point, 
Nationwide had suspicions that Mr A was receiving funds he wasnt entitled to, so I dont 
think the immediate closure of his account was unreasonable. 
CIFAS
Whilst I think Nationwides decision to end their relationship was appropriate, the lodgement 
of a marker with CIFAS required a different level of evidence to support its inclusion on their 
database. A CIFAS marker lasts for six years and can have a substantial impact on the 
individuals ability to bank and obtain credit. 
The specific requirements were laid out in the adjudicators review, so I wont repeat them 
here. I do think Nationwide had enough to be suspicious about Mr As activity, but the 
evidence theyve supplied is, I think, below the level required by CIFAS. Nationwide advised 
our service that no other information was received apart from the fraud report from the 
sending bank. Whilst its reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the information they receive 
from another bank, it doesnt necessarily mean the information has been tested, or that 
theres a different interpretation of what happened. Because Nationwide lodged the marker, 
it was their responsibility to ensure they met the standards laid down by CIFAS. 
Mr A gave his explanation to this service about the reasons for receiving the payment, but 
Nationwide dont appear to have looked into that. Considering the type of allegation, I would 
have thought there would have been additional information and evidence available to 
corroborate the fraud report. But, without further evidence, its difficult to see how the fraud 
report meets the standard required of CIFAS. 
There was reference to another payment received by Mr A some time later from a different 
account, but theres little information about this payment in the context of the fraud marker 
lodged against Mr A. 
Nationwide did ask, through our service, what Mr As version of events were so they could 
reconsider their position. But by this point Nationwide had already lodged the marker  
essentially stating that theyd met the required standards of CIFAS. Its appreciated that 
Nationwide were going to re-assess their position but its their responsibility to meet the 
standards before lodging a marker, so any investigation they carried out should have been 
before they lodged it.
Putting things right
As I dont think that Nationwide met the appropriate standards laid down by CIFAS, the fair 
and reasonable thing to do is to remove the marker.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold, in part, Mr As complaint and Nationwide Building Society 
are instructed to remove the CIFAS marker. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont uphold the 
complaint concerning the account closure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman