DRN-3714068
The complaint
Mr R complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c (MetLife) has unfairly said it wont meet a claim he 
made.
What happened
Mr R has an insurance policy with MetLife that provides benefits if he suffers an accident 
and, in some circumstances, if hes ill. The policy started in November 2020.
In early 2021 Mr R was admitted to hospital suffering with COVID-19. He stayed in hospital 
for about two months. Subsequently he claimed for a cash benefit related to this stay  about 
£6,000. MetLife assessed the claim, but said it need not pay the claim because the benefit 
for hospitalisation for illness only became available after Mr R had held the policy for 12 
months. 
Mr R didnt think that was fair, but MetLife didnt change its stance when he complained, so 
he asked us to review the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think MetLife had done anything wrong. He thought the policy terms 
and conditions made it clear that no payment was due if Mr R was hospitalised because of 
illness unless hed had the policy for more than 12 months.
Mr R pointed out that hed received payment when he broke a bone within the first 12 
months, and our investigator explained the differences in what the policy covered or didnt 
cover in the first 12 months.
Mr R doesnt think this is fair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Its MetLifes responsibility to give its customers information about policies they buy thats 
clear and not misleading. So Ive looked at the paperwork Mr R received when he bought the 
policy. The terms and conditions say a benefit is payable for hospitalisation caused by an 
accident  and goes on to say that hospitalisation because of illness is covered once the 
policy has been held for at least 12 months. That information is repeated in both the 
welcome letter and the policy schedule  which describes what cover Mr R bought. I think 
the paperwork makes it clear that no benefit is payable if Mr R is hospitalised because of 
illness in the first 12 months.
Mr R went into hospital with COVID within a couple of months of buying the policy  so I 
think its fair for MetLife to say it need not meet the claim.
I also agree with our investigator who explained that cover for accidents started immediately, 
even if cover for hospitalisation had a 12 month waiting period. 
Mr R recently told us that he has some learning difficulties and the policy wasnt made clear 
enough. But hes also told us he didnt tell MetLife about this, so it wouldnt have had an 
opportunity to make any adjustments for him, if hed needed them. I dont know whether Mr 
R would still have bought the policy if hed been aware he wasnt covered for some things for 
the first 12 months. But I can say that most policies of this sort exclude some elements of 
cover for an initial period, and its unlikely Mr R could have bought better cover elsewhere, at 
least not for a similar price. Im also aware that Mr R made a successful claim for an 
accident under this policy, so he has been able to benefit from it.
Taking everything into account Im not going to ask MetLife to do any more than it has 
already.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman