DRN-2103771
The complaint
Mr J complains that, after opening a credit card with Santander UK Plc, incorrect payment 
due date information was showing on his banking app.
What happened
On 24 March 2020 Mr J applied online for a Santander credit card. His application was 
approved and, on 29 March 2020, he used his credit card for the first time  transferring a 
balance of £4500 onto it.
Shortly after Mr J had made his balance transfer, he looked on his Santander app in order to 
find out when his first payment was due. The app showed him that a minimum payment of 
£0 was due by 31 December.
As Mr J hadnt, by this point, received his first account statement, he contacted Santander to 
check whether the payment due date showing on his app was correct. Santander informed 
him that, as his credit card was new, his online banking wouldnt show the payment due 
date. It explained that the 31 December date that Mr J could see on his app was a default 
payment date, which would show until his first statement was billed and produced. 
Mr J told Santander he wasnt happy about this. He felt this was misleading and thought the 
date on the app should be displayed correctly. He also said the default date had caused him 
confusion and could have caused him to miss his payment due date. Santander told Mr J it 
hadnt made an error in using the default date on his app. But it apologised for any distress 
hed experienced and offer to pay him £20 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr J felt the £20 Santander had offered him didnt adequately reflect the trouble and upset 
hed been caused. But Santander wouldnt increase its offer. Mr J therefore referred his 
complaint to our service. He told our service he was also disappointed Santander hadnt told 
him it was intending to change the app so it would correctly show payment due date 
information.
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr J and Santander provided our service. But, while 
they empathised with Mr J, they didnt recommend upholding his complaint. Overall, they 
didnt think Santander had made an error in using a default date. They explained that our 
service cant tell a business how it should display information on its app. And they thought 
the goodwill gesture Santander had already paid Mr J to resolve his complaint was fair and 
reasonable. But Mr J disagreed with our investigators view of his complaint and asked an 
ombudsman to decide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr J experienced here. Ive seen the screenshot of the 
app that he provided our service. It clearly states the payment due date is 31 December. But 
it also says a nil payment is due. I can appreciate that what Mr J saw on the app must have 
caused confusion. And I understand why that led to him contacting Santander in order to 
seek clarification about when he was required to make a payment to his account. This must 
have caused inconvenience.
Santander told Mr J and our investigator that a default date  here 31 December  is used 
where a credit card account has only been recently opened and a statement hasnt yet been 
generated. It further explained that once a statement is produced the app then shows the 
correct payment due date.
Ive seen a copy of the first statement Mr J was sent by Santander. This is dated 22 April 
2020 and it shows his minimum payment was due by 18 May 2020. Its clear to me that 
when Mr J viewed his app, and saw the default date, his first statement hadnt yet been 
generated. This is why his app showed 31 December as the payment due date.
Ive heard the telephone recording of the call Mr J made to Santander on 14 April 2020 to 
query whether the default date showing on his app was correct. This was eight days before 
his statement was due to be produced. I think Santander provided Mr J with clear 
clarification about its use of the default date during his telephone calls with it. Im satisfied 
that what Santander told Mr J should have removed any confusion from his mind.
Based, on the evidence Ive seen I think Santanders explanation about why a default date is 
used is reasonable. And, in those circumstances, I cant fairly conclude Santander made an 
error by using a default date on Mr Js app.
Mr J has raised the possibility that using a default payment due date could have led to him 
missing his first monthly payment to his account. But Im not persuaded by this argument. I 
say this because Mr J would have been sent his April statement, which clearly showed the 
date hed need to make his payment by. I understand he was also regularly logging onto his 
account online.
I should also add that when our service considers the impact of a business actions on a 
consumer we look at what actually happened. So, we cant award compensation based on 
hypothetical and speculative situations. In this case Mr J didnt miss his payment due date. 
Instead, he made Aprils payment on time. So, Im satisfied he hasnt incurred a loss that I 
need to consider here.
I understand Santander paid Mr J £20 as a goodwill gesture to apologise for any worry and 
confusion caused by the default date and to recognise the time he spent on the phone 
contacting it to seek clarification. Its clear Mr J feels a higher award should be made by our 
service.
As our investigators already explained we arent here to punish businesses and, to put 
things right, Id have asked Santander to apologise for what happened, which its done. Id 
also have told it to pay an appropriate award of compensation to recognise the confusion 
and worry Mr J was caused. As its done this too, Ive considered whether its offer was a fair 
and reasonable amount. 
Im persuaded that Mr J didnt spent a considerable amount of time in trying to resolve 
matters with Santander. Ive listened to the calls he made, which arent particularly lengthy or 
protracted. I dont doubt hes incurred out of pocket expenses such as the cost of those 
telephone calls. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here.In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I agree with the investigators view that the 
£20 Santanders already paid is an appropriate amount of compensation for the trouble and 
upset Mr J would have suffered here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I 
wont be asking Santander to increase that amount or do anymore here.
Finally, Mr J has told our investigator he wants our service to tell Santander to change its 
app so it displays the correct payment due date to avoid confusion for others. However, as 
our investigator has already explained, were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell a 
bank to change how it presents information to a customer on its app, or to adopt the 
changes that Mr J would like. I can see our investigator has helpfully signposted Mr J to the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, should he wish to pursue this part of his 
complaint further. 
I realise Mr J will be disappointed with my decision and I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought this complaint to our service. But, for the reasons given, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Js dispute with 
Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr J further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman