DRN-3143832
The complaint
Ms B complains about the customer service and advice received from St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP) about her Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
In June 2020 Ms B complained to SJP about the service she had received in the months 
since mid-November 2019 when she contacted them about her investment.
SJP looked into what happened over those months. Whilst not upholding some of the 
complaint points made by Ms B they offered £500 as a gesture of goodwill for any trouble 
and upset caused by what happened and for the time it took to investigate her concerns. 
Ms B didnt accept the offer and brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Overall they didnt think SJP acted unfairly or had 
made any errors. Ms B disagreed saying SJP shouldve been more proactive when she 
contacted them in November 2019 and they shouldve done more. So the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear she feels strongly 
about what happened. I want to assure Ms B that Ive read and considered everything that 
has been submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised the complaint which 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
In November 2019 Ms B emailed SJP saying she had found a house she wanted to buy. In 
part the email from Ms B said:
I am wondering therefore what your advice would be around keeping money in the 
investment versus putting my money in the house?
Keen to get your advice 
SJP replied the same day saying:
We could do with having an update meeting sometime soon as there are some new points to 
discuss.
Have you got some dates that we can coordinate to meet ..
Ms B thought a telephone conversation would be better so a phone appointment was made 
for a few days later. This appointment wasnt kept so SJP gave Ms B available times for the 
next day to have the telephone appointment. But I havent seen any evidence this 
appointment was kept either.   
In her response to our investigator Ms B said that SJP lacked proactiveness and the ability 
to work on behalf of a client after the contact in November. Having looked at what happened 
Im not persuaded this is the case. Ms B approached SJP for advice and a telephone 
appointment to give that advice, which Ms B found more convenient than a face to face 
meeting, was set up. This wasnt kept, and nor was the offer to call back the next day taken 
up. At that time I think SJP acted fairly in response to Ms Bs email and with no further 
contact from Ms B for quite some time Im satisfied they took appropriate action.
Ms B next contacted SJP on 7 March 2020 saying she had been watching her investments 
and wondered what was being done to address the volatility of the market. SJP assured 
Ms B that the fund managers were monitoring movements of the market. Ms B told SJP that 
the plans for a house purchase were going well and that she would want some cash out of 
the investments soon. SJP told Ms B to allow about 14 days in advance to ensure the funds 
were there in plenty of time. 
In response to our investigator Ms B said it was crystal clear what she was needing to do 
and the sense of urgency. However looking at the evidence from the time Im again not 
satisfied thats the case. I think Ms B was asking about her investments but at that time there 
was no request for a withdrawal. SJP answered her question about the state of the markets 
and there seems that no further action needed to be taken.
When Ms B did make it clear to SJP that a withdrawal was required I think it was processed 
as soon as possible. There was a slight delay due to the paperwork required for the 
withdrawal and how SJP was doing business at the time. Ms B took the initiative to hand 
deliver the form which saved some time; but was obviously a bit of an inconvenience for her. 
Looking at the timeline of events I dont think there were any substantial or avoidable delays. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied SJP acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Ms B. Thats not to say that Ms B hasnt been affected by 
what happened; she clearly has as her investment went down in value. But I dont think this 
was because of any errors on behalf of SJP. Im happy the £500 offered is a fair resolution of 
the complaint.
Putting things right
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Ms B £500 
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Ms B £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman