DRN-3017701
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It says we 
should also consider whether the car has proven to be durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 35,615 miles. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for the quality of 
the car. Here the car failed after Mr L had been in possession of it for about 23 months and 
after it had completed about 12,500 additional miles. So, the relevant legislation explains the 
onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was most likely to have been present when 
the car was supplied.
I can understand that this must be an upsetting situation for Mr L as the cost of replacing the 
damaged fuel system is extensive and its not too long before the finance agreement comes 
to an end. But Im afraid I dont think he has provided enough information to suggest the fault 
the car has experienced is because of something that was going wrong at the point it was 
supplied to him, or that its not been durable.
I say that because whilst Mr L has presented evidence to suggest there wasnt fuel 
contamination, he hasnt been able to provide expert evidence that would suggest the fault 
had been developing from the beginning, or to explain the origin of the swarf in the fuel 
supply. 
I can understand Mr Ls point that he wouldnt expect to have to spend so much on a repair 
after such a short time and on a car that had completed less than 50,000 miles. Ive 
considered if on that basis I could fairly consider the car not to have been durable. But Im 
afraid I dont think that would be a reasonable conclusion in the circumstances, as theres no 
explanation for where the swarf came from, or whether the third-party repair that was 
completed has contributed to the failure.
Whilst I understand the impact of the decision I dont think there is sufficient information to 
suggest this car has not been of satisfactory quality and Im not asking VWFS to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman