DRN-4034098
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) pressured him into making a decision 
about his pension. He also says it then processed the payment of his pension, and paid the 
relevant tax on this, without his authorisation.
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension with Zurich. The normal retirement date of the pension was set 
as 25 August 2022.
On 28 February 2022, Zurich wrote to Mr S saying that the retirement date for his pension 
was approaching and it was time for him to think about making a decision about his benefits. 
The letter explained that Mr S had several options. It said:
If Mr S didnt want to decide or take benefits yet, he could keep his pension where it 
was by informing Zurich of a new retirement date.
He could use the pension to buy an annuity to provide a guaranteed income for life. 
But this wasnt a product that Zurich provided so hed need to move to another 
provider.
Mr S could choose to take a flexible retirement income through a drawdown product, 
where he drew income in the form of withdrawals. Zurich noted that this wasnt 
possible under the pension that Mr S held though so again, hed have to transfer to a 
new plan with a different provider if he wanted to choose this option.
He had the option to take the pension in a lump sum, noting the first quarter would be 
tax free with the remainder of the plan incurring income tax. Zurich noted that if he 
wanted to take the plan value in multiple lump sums though hed again have to 
transfer to a different plan with another provider as it didnt offer this.
Mr S could think about using a combination of these options and take out more than 
one plan elsewhere.
The letter said Mr S could find further information online and could get independent guidance 
from a financial adviser or the Pension Wise service set up by the government. The letter 
also included a plan summary, including the value at the time, some risk warnings, including 
that income taken from the plan was likely to incur tax, and finished by saying if Zurich didnt 
hear from Mr S by the current scheduled retirement date it would assume he wanted to delay 
taking the plan for now.
On 5 March 2022, Mr S sent Zurich a handwritten letter saying hed like his full pension to be 
paid to a joint account he held with his wife at the scheduled retirement date. The letter gave 
the details of the account.
On 4 July 2022, Zurich sent Mr S another letter. This was a reminder of important 
information about his choices. It gave Mr S the same information about his options as 
previously explained and again said, if Zurich didnt hear otherwise, itd assume he wanted 
to delay a decision. An up-to-date plan summary was also included.
On 13 July 2022, Zurich emailed Mr S. The email explained it was providing information hed 
requested and included forms hed need to complete in order to take the full pension value 
as a lump sum.
Mr S replied the next day saying that having to fill the forms was an inconvenience for him as 
he said hed already provided several forms before, he was not happy at needing to provide 
this information again and said I need the money for my holiday now. It also referred to 
wanting to know which option would result in the least tax but noted that Mr S would make 
another appointment with pension wise.
On 18 July 2022, Zurich sent Mr S a letter thanking him for returning the claim form. It 
explained though it was unable to process the payment of the pension as some of the 
information was incomplete. It noted that Mr S signature was required on the forms. And it 
said it needed Mr S to complete the section confirming if he had received Pension Wise 
guidance or regulated advice or if he had opted out of this guidance and did not want advice. 
The letter explained it was required to confirm this by the regulator.
The letter went on to say that Mr S had indicated he wanted his pension plan to remain open 
after hed been paid the full balance. But Zurich said this was not possible as the plan would 
close on payment. So, it asked Mr S to confirm if he wanted to claim the plan in its entirety.
Zurich also said Mr S needed to complete the sections of the forms relating to Lifetime 
Allowance. And in order to make a payment to the account specified it needed to see an 
original document related to that account, like a bank statement. The letter said that original 
documents wouldnt be returned unless Mr S specifically asked for this.
Zurich then received a completed claim form which was signed by Mr S on 25 July 2022. 
This confirmed he wanted to take the full pension as a lump sum payment. The form noted 
that a bank statement was included for the joint account to which Mr S wanted the payment 
to be made and asked for this document to be returned.
Zurich wrote to Mr S on 28 July 2022 confirming that the payment had been made as 
instructed. It confirmed the payment had been made to the account Mr S had specified and 
set out how much tax had been deducted. The letter explained that Mr S could contact 
HMRC if he thought the tax amount was incorrect.
Mr S emailed Zurich on 2 August 2022. He said he was getting a lot of pressure to make the 
decision too quickly and the tax was too much. He said he was unhappy and asked if the 
payment could be split with him only taking part of the balance this year, and the rest later. 
He also mentioned having received post from Zurich which had already been opened.
Mr S sent further emails in the days that followed saying:
He hadnt had advice about what to do with the pension.
He hadnt instructed Zurich to make the payment.
The payment had been made before the retirement date of the pension.
He did not give permission for the tax to be deducted.
He needed more time to make a decision.
He wanted all of the funds put back into the pension.
Mr S asked that Zurich treat these concerns as a complaint.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had been obliged to make Mr S aware of his 
options and the need to think about making a choice as his retirement age approached. It 
said it had followed Mr S instructions, after having asked him to verify and confirm them. 
And it said that the pension was now closed, and the payment could not be reversed.Mr S referred his complaint to our service saying he felt Zurich might have acted 
fraudulently.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Zurich had done anything 
wrong. He felt Zurich had acted appropriately by contacting Mr S to tell him about his options 
for the pension and didnt agree it had pressured him. He said Zurich wasnt required to give 
advice and had directed Mr S to appropriate services and hadnt done anything wrong by 
assuming Mr S had made use of these, given hed indicated he had. The Investigator 
thought Zurich had taken appropriate steps to ensure it was acting on Mr S instruction and 
that it had been correct to deduct tax as the proceeds of the pension were considered 
income. And he felt it wasnt responsible for any issues with the postal service.
Mr S did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said 
Zurich hadnt helped him make an informed decision and he was forced to act quickly at a 
stressful time. He also said he hadnt given permission for tax to be deducted and felt this 
should be returned by Zurich.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the retirement date of a pension plan is approaching, providers are required to make 
the pension holder aware of this and to summarise the options available to them. The 
retirement date of the pension Mr S held with Zurich was set at 25 August 2022. So, Zurich 
had to make him aware, in good time in advance of this, that he needed to think about what 
he wanted to do with his pension. The letters it sent in February and July 2022 were for this 
purpose. And I think were in line with what was required of Zurich.
Mr S says he was pressured into making a decision by Zurich. But I dont agree. The first of 
the two letters were sent six months before the retirement date, giving him a significant 
amount of time to think about what he wanted to do and to take advice if he needed it. And 
Zurich suggested he use the Pension Wise service or take independent advice  stating that 
this was an important decision and discussing it with a financial adviser was a good idea. In 
addition, the first option highlighted to Mr S was that he could effectively defer making a 
choice by deciding not to take benefits yet. And if he didnt get around to responding to 
Zurich, this is what it would assume he wanted to do. So, while Ive taken on board what 
Mr S has said about these letters coming at a stressful time for him, I cant agree that Zurich 
pressured him or gave him an unreasonable amount of time to think about his choice.
Mr S has also said he wasnt able to make an informed decision. But I think the information 
Zurich provided was clear and as required. It outlined that there were several options for 
taking his pension benefits  such as an annuity, a flexible drawdown arrangement, or taking 
the value as a lump sum. It also was clear that it didnt offer some of these options, including 
that it didnt provide for the pension to be taking as several lump sums, and that Mr S would 
need to move to another provider if he wanted to use an option Zurich didnt provide. It was 
also clear that money taken from the pension would be taxed. When setting out the options 
potentially available to Mr S it said that the first 25% was generally tax free but the remainder 
would incur tax. And in the risk warnings attached to the letter, it talked about income from 
the pension being taxable. It also directed him to online resources which would provide more 
information about his options.
Zurich wasnt required to provide advice to Mr S. And again, it directed him to consider using the Pension Wise service or discussing the decision with an independent adviser, saying this 
was a good idea. The forms Zurich provided to Mr S also included a section for him to say if 
hed used these options  again indicating their importance. And in the email Mr S sent to 
Zurich on 14 July 2022, when he said having to complete the relevant forms was an 
inconvenience for him, he said hed make a further appointment with Pension Wise to 
discuss matters  indicating hed already used this option previously.
Taking all of this into account I think the information Zurich provided to Mr S was clear. And I 
think it was entitled to believe, based on the forms he completed and the information in the 
emails he sent prior to the transfer taking place, that hed utilised the services available to 
him and understood the choice he was making.
Mr S says Zurich wasnt acting on his instructions when making the payment. But that isnt 
supported by the information Ive seen. Mr S sent a handwritten letter to Zurich in March 
2022 saying hed like the full pension to be paid as a lump sum. He then completed a form 
confirming this in July 2022. The form he returned to Zurich was incomplete. So, it wrote to 
him explaining that it needed him to complete the missing information in the form to further 
confirm his choice. This letter was clear that leaving the pension open after the payment was 
made wasnt an option, so asked him again if a full payment was what he wanted. And Mr S 
proceeded to sign and return the form. Im satisfied that Mr S likely read and understood this 
letter because it said in order to make the payment a bank statement would be required and 
that this statement wouldnt be returned unless Mr S specifically asked for it to be. When 
filling the form Mr S did ask for this bank statement to be sent back, indicating he read the 
letter. And the bank details on that statement were the same as those Mr S gave in his letter 
from March 2022, saying where he wanted the payment to be made to.
The letter from March 2022 did mention the payment being made at the scheduled 
retirement date of the plan. But in his email of 14 July 2022, Mr S said he needed the money 
urgently, and having to complete further forms was an inconvenience. So, I think Zurich was 
correct to assume that his preference was for an immediate payment, based on this and the 
signed form having been returned.
It was only after the payment had been made that Mr S suggested he wanted to make a 
different choice  taking the benefits in stages as several lump sums  and that he needed 
more time to think about the decision. But this seems to have been prompted more by the 
confirmation of the amount of tax that was deducted. So, Mr S real concern seems to be 
that tax was deducted, and it is this that he has suggested he didnt authorise. But benefits 
taken from a pension are classed as income and subject to taxation by HMRC. Zurich made 
this clear in the options letters that it sent to Mr S  that the first 25% would be tax free but 
the rest of the pension would be subject to tax. Zurich deducted tax on that basis. And Zurich 
is required to deduct tax from payments it makes to pension plan holders.
I dont think Zurich was wrong or has acted fraudulently, as Mr S has suggested, by 
deducting tax from the lump sum payment. And, as Zurich said in the confirmation of 
payment letter, if Mr S believes the amount of tax taken is incorrect, this is something he 
needs to take up with HMRC.
So overall, Im satisfied Zurich was following what it understood to be Mr S instructions 
when making the payment. And so, I dont think it was wrong to do this.
Mr S has also mentioned some of the documents he received from Zurich arriving already 
opened. But I havent seen anything to suggest that this was due to an error by Zurich. And 
Zurich isnt responsible for any issues with the postal service.
So, based on everything Ive seen, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman