DRN-2560296
The complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In December 1987 Mrs M opened a store card account. In February 1998 PPI was added to 
her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Mrs M owed on her store card and it 
protected Mrs Ms store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M disagreed. 
In summary, Mrs Ms main complaints are:
that she shouldve been given relevant information regarding the costs and benefits 
of this policy to determine for herself whether this policy was suitable, but the 
information was not as clear as it should have been
in the absence of clear information it isnt fair to say AXA gave her a choice about 
having PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording  but I wouldnt expect it to still have call 
recordings from as long ago as 1998. When personal private information is no longer likely 
to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out rules about this. Destroying 
old information helps to keep customers private details secure. I can appreciate that Mrs M 
feels frustrated by the lack of any call recording. But the fact that AXA cant now produce this 
isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
I also havent seen a copy of the call script used at the time and I dont know what AXA said 
to Mrs M when the policy was sold. 
But based on what this service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was 
to sell PPI. So it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main 
features of the policy to see if Mrs M wanted to take it out. 
And given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for more than 
10 years without PPI, this makes me think Mrs M wouldve been aware that the policy was 
optional. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs M to remember exactly what happened so many 
years ago. On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the 
phone call when Mrs M chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and 
deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs M with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. Even if AXA had 
recommended the PPI as Mrs M thought it had done, this doesnt affect the outcome of her 
complaint because I think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation if that had happened. 
So I dont need to make a further finding on this point. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs M had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mrs Ms decision to take it out. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs M couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness. It 
couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each month until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time if Mrs M needed to claim  bearing in mind that she mightve had 
extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she wouldve only been able to rely on getting full 
pay for the first 6 months she was off work sick and half pay for only another 6 months after 
that. 
I've taken into account that Mrs M felt that this was already enough cover for her payments 
each month. But the PPI offered better protection than her employer. 
And it also paid out the same benefit if she lost her job unexpectedly and found herself out of 
work. 
So I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs M  and she 
took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs M off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
Even if AXA didnt give Mrs M all the information it shouldve done when it sold her the 
policy, I havent seen enough information to be able to say that Mrs M has lost out as a 
result of anything that AXA did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman