DRN-2447344
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A are unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded them 
the balance of the money they lost when they fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr A and Mrs As complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both 
parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
In July 2019, Mr A was looking to invest a sum of money for both himself and his 
wife. He researched online and found an attractive (but not too good to be true) rate 
of return on a bond offered by a well-known company.
Unknown to Mr A and Mrs A at the time the investment group they thought they were 
dealing with had been cloned by fraudsters.
The fraudsters had used the details and the literature of the genuine investment 
business to make the scam appear more convincing. The fraudsters had also set up 
a website that purported to show the investments that had been made. In short, they 
had set up an operation that appeared professional and genuine to Mr A and Mrs A 
but, in reality, was fake.
Between 11 July 2019 and 1 August 2019, Mr A sent a series of Faster Payments 
totalling £100,000, in the belief that he was investing this money through a legitimate 
investment company.
Several months later, when Mr A and Mrs A had tried to log in to the website of the 
investment business, they found they were unable to do so. They also found they 
were no longer able to make contact by telephone. It subsequently came to light that 
this had been a scam. Halifax was unable to recover any of the money they had sent.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Halifax has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer hasnt met their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, a firm may 
consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Halifax declined to refund Mr A and Mrs A. It said Mr A and Mrs A hadnt done enough to 
verify the investment was legitimate. It said they should have tried to contact the business 
using a trusted number to check they were indeed dealing with a genuine employee of the 
investment business. 
Halifax also noted that the small print in the footer text of the correspondence had a slightly 
different business name and it thought some of the correspondence wasnt in an expected 
business format. It said Mr A could have sent payment by another means. But Halifax 
accepted that it hadnt provided a relevant warning to Mr A and Mrs A before the payments 
were made, and it had not contacted both receiving banks in a timely manner. So, it 
refunded 50% of Mr A and Mrs As losses.
Mr A and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service as they were unhappy with Halifaxs 
decision. One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had established that Mr A and Mrs A had failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. The investigator found that Mr A and Mrs A 
had a reasonable basis for believing they were making an investment with a legitimate 
business. 
He noted that Mr A and Mrs A had received what appeared to be convincing literature which 
had formed part of a sophisticated deception over a period of time. He noted Mr A and Mrs A 
had taken steps to validate the company they were dealing with by checking the company 
number against the FCA register and that the scammers had used a fake website to make 
the investment seem yet more persuasive.
He acknowledged there were discrepancies in the detail of the information, as Halifax had 
noted, but didnt find those were sufficiently prominent to say that Mr A and Mrs A ought 
reasonably to have identified them.
He didnt consider Halifax had established that Mr A and Mrs A made the payments without 
the reasonable basis of belief required by the CRM Code.
As a result, the investigator said Halifax ought to have fully reimbursed Mr A and Mrs A 
when theyd made their claim under the CRM Code. He said it should now settle the 
complaint by reimbursing Mr A and Mrs A for the remainder of the sum theyd lost, together 
with 8% simple interest from the date it declined their claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 11 November 2020 with a deadline 
for responding of 25 November 2020. Despite this deadline having expired some 
considerable time ago, Halifax has as yet not provided a response to the investigators view. 
This is despite the investigator repeatedly requesting a reply and resending his findings 
through alternate channels of communication.
In the light of this significant delay, the matter has been escalated to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Halifax to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Halifaxs failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM Code, Mr A and Mrs A ought to have been fully 
reimbursed when they notified Halifax of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or 
not they met their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe they did, and for 
substantively the same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have 
been fair and reasonable for Mr A and Mrs A to have received a full refund at the time.
I have given additional consideration to the question of whether Halifax ought to have 
intervened during the course of the payments that Mr A was sending. I think these payments 
were sufficiently unusual that Halifax ought to have contacted Mr A and Mrs A to reassure 
itself they were not at risk of financial harm. However, had Halifax done so, it is not clear to 
me that this scam would have readily come to light. As outlined above, I consider Mr A and 
Mrs A had already taken steps to validate the legitimacy of the investment opportunity. Had 
Halifax questioned them about the payments, I think Mr A and Mrs A would have reassured 
Halifax that they were making payments to an investment and that they were satisfied it was 
a legitimate investment.
So, I dont think Halifax would likely have been able to uncover the scam at that point, and 
therefore I dont think it likely in this case the bank could have prevented the resulting loss. 
However, under the CRM Code, reimbursement is not contingent on the ability of the bank to 
have prevented the scam  rather it is dependent on the actions of the consumer. And, as 
explained above, I am satisfied that Mr A and Mrs A met their requisite level of care under 
the CRM Code and so should, fairly and reasonably, have been refunded by Halifax in full.
Although most of Mr A and Mrs As distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the 
criminal acts of the fraudsters, I think Halifax could have done more to protect them from the 
impact of this given its obligations under the CRM Code and its statutory duty to co-operate 
with our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider £250 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. In 
making this award I am aware that no such award was made by the investigator. But given 
where we are in the complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr A and Mrs A 
ought reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr A and Mrs A:
the remaining balance of the money they lost as a result of the scam. It should do so 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr A and Mrs As acceptance of my final 
decision; plus,interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that sum (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date the bank declined to fully reimburse Mr A and Mrs As 
claim under the CRM to the date of settlement; and,
£250 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of their acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint about Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax), as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman