DRN-2808999
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr and Mrs H is dissatisfied with Aviva Insurance Limited and its 
actions in relation to its home emergency insurance policy. It has said that Aviva didnt 
properly repair a tap at the late Mr and Mrs Hs property in February 2019, when dealing with 
a claim.
The estate of the late Mr and Mrs H is represented by Mrs F. So, for ease of reference, 
instead of referring to the estate Ill refer to Mrs F instead.
What happened
In April 2018, Aviva were called to the late Mr and Mrs Hs property, because the tap over 
the sink in the kitchen was dripping. Aviva attended the property and said it wasnt possible 
to repair the tap, and so it would need to be replaced instead. The engineer took the tap out 
and replaced the tap with a new one  from the stock that was in the engineers van.
Around ten months later, in February 2019, Aviva said it received a further call out to the 
property, for a blocked sink. And around the same time, the late Mr and Mrs Hs daughter 
called Aviva, and explained there appeared to be a leak at the kitchen sink  with there 
being a gap somewhere around it, and the sink having cracked. 
The late Mr and Mrs Hs daughter said she suspected the above gap and crack had been 
caused by the engineer that attended the property in April 2018. In February 2019, an 
engineer attended for both issues. And because the engineer who had fitted the tap in April 
2018 hadnt taken photos both before, and after the work they had carried out, it was agreed 
that Aviva would replace the sink and tap. And so, this was completed.
Its my understanding there was then no contact with Aviva, until July 2019, the late Mr and 
Mrs Hs daughter, contacted Aviva. She said the tap over the kitchen sink had blown off, the 
kitchen had been flooded with water  and the late Mr H had been discovered unresponsive 
on the kitchen floor of his home. The emergency services were called to assist, and the late 
Mr H was taken to hospital. Sadly, he passed away shortly after.
During this call, the late Mr and Mrs Hs daughter said the tap at her parents property could 
not have been fitted properly when it was replaced in February 2019, and this is what had 
caused it to come free. Aviva confirmed it would attend on a call out, because there was no 
water in the property downstairs at this point and this needed to be restored.
On 1 July 2019 Aviva attended the property on an emergency call out basis to restore water 
to the property, as above. It replaced the tap that had come off with a new one and restored 
the water at the house.
A few days later, on 5 July 2019, Aviva visited the property again, this time to review the tap 
that was fitted in February 2019, as a result of Mrs F concerns. And, having looked at the 
original tap it concluded that this had been fitted correctly in February 2019. It did however 
note that the tap that was fitted on the emergency call out a few days before its visit, on 1 
July 2019, and after the previous tap had allegedly blown off, had been fitted the wrong way 
around  with the hot and cold tap being on the wrong side. This was rectified during this 
visit.
A further inspection of the tap that was alleged to have come off in June 2019, was 
completed by Aviva in September 2019, as Mrs F hadnt been available for the tap to be 
inspected before this point. Avivas conclusion was that the tap had been installed correctly. 
The plumbing expert Aviva asked to look into the tap, said there were clear indents on the it, 
showing that it had been correctly fitted and secured, in line with manufacturer instructions. 
It also said its expert had fitted the same type of tap elsewhere as a test and compared the 
markings made on the test tap, with the tap that had been fitted at the late Mr and Mrs Hs 
property. And, identical markings were seen on both taps  evidencing that the tap had been 
fitted correctly. Aviva also noted the tap was designed to withstand pressure up to 10 bar, 
and it had only had a pressure on 3 bar exerted on it. Meaning, with evidence that it had 
been correctly fitted, it could not have blown off. 
The late Mr and Mrs Hs daughters didnt agree that Aviva had fitted the tap correctly. She 
said that the tap could not have come off, if it had been fitted and secured correctly. Instead, 
she noted that the tap at her late parents home didnt have any indents in it, showing the 
grub screws werent tightened as they should have been  so it was only the O ring that was 
keeping the tap on.
And they had sought the opinion of a plumber, who said the tap could not have come off, if it 
was fitted correctly.
Mrs F, who is representing the estate of the late Mr and Mrs H in this case, remained 
dissatisfied with Avivas position on the matter, they referred the complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
he wasnt able to comment on what led the late Mr H to pass away. And that he could only 
look at whether it was likely Aviva had carried out a poor repair under the insurance policy. 
Based on the information the investigator had seen, he didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to show that Aviva had completed a poor installation of the tap.
Mrs F didnt agree. She wasnt satisfied Aviva had shown it had fitted the tap correctly  or 
provided evidence of what it was that made the tap come off, if not due to poor 
workmanship. 
Mrs F reiterated that they didnt think the grub screws had been fully depressed as they 
should have been  because there werent markings suggesting this on the tap in question. 
And that she found it suspicious that Aviva no longer used the type of tap that had come off 
at the late Mr and Mrs Hs home.
Because Mrs F didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. I provided a provisional decision on this complaint to both parties, detailing my thoughts. In 
this I said;
Before considering this complaint any further, Id first like to extend my condolences to Mrs 
F, on the passing of the late Mr and Mrs H. Its clear its been an incredibly difficult time. And 
I can understand why Mrs F strongly about this case. 
Id like to reassure Mrs F that Ive carefully considered all the information provided to me by 
both parties, when arriving at my thoughts. And Ive explained my intended findings on this 
complaint below.
Its important to note that I havent considered or made any findings about the cause of the 
late Mr Hs passing. It isnt for me to conclude on this  a coroner has considered the case 
and made their findings. The coroner concluded the late Mr Hs death was accidental. Its 
report says the late Mr H suffered a mechanical fall, and a spinal injury, after he appeared to 
have been repairing a leaking tap  having been found unresponsive on the floor. As above, 
the coroner has concluded on this, and I wont be dealing with this here.
Instead, it is my role at this service to consider whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in 
how it handled the claim for the tap, under the late Mr and Mrs Hs home emergency policy.
From reviewing Avivas contact and job history notes, I can see Aviva attended the late Mr 
and Mrs Hs property in April 2018 and replaced the kitchen tap. Job notes from this 
attendance say the tap was replaced with one the engineer had available in the van. And 
these say the tap was fitted, then tested, and was working fine. At this point, there wasnt 
any concerns about the work completed.
However, in February 2019, Aviva attended the property again, and the late Mr and Mrs Hs 
daughter raised concerns that a poor job had been completed in April 2018. She felt the 
engineer may have caused a crack in the sink. Avivas notes from this visit show it agreed to 
replace the sink and tap. It said it did this, because it didnt have photos of the condition of 
the sink, before and after the engineer replaced the tap in April 2018. So, it decided that it 
would be fair to replace the sink and tap, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Given the time that had passed since the engineers visit in April 2018, and there were no 
photos of the sink before the visit in April 2018, I think Aviva took a reasonable approach 
here. It made a pragmatic decision to resolve the problem for the late Mr and Mrs H. So, I do 
think it acted fairly at this point. And I dont intend of making any further award in this 
respect.
Mrs F says the crux of the complaint in this case, is that the engineer who replaced the sink 
and tap in February 2019, also completed a poor repair  by not fitting the tap correctly. And 
therefore, causing the tap to blow off in June 2019.
So, Ive considered the evidence provided in respect of the work carried out in February 
2019. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to show Aviva 
fitted the tap incorrectly on that occasion. And therefore, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to say it was the cause of the tap coming off in June 2019. Ive reviewed the manual for the tap that was fitted at the late Mr and Mrs Hs property in 
February 2019. It says that the base of the tap is first secured, and then the O ring should be 
greased, before the tap is placed on top the base. To then fit the actual tap, a grub screw 
should be placed either side of the tap and tightened. And once this is done, the tap is fitted 
and ready to use. Given that these are the manufacturer instructions, Id expect the tap to 
have been fitted using this method that would constitute a fair and reasonable repair under 
the late Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
And looking at the documents provided to me by both parties, I persuaded that its more 
likely than not the tap was fitted in line with this, in February 2019.
I say this because Ive seen comments from both Avivas engineers, and a plumber 
appointed by Mrs F after they reviewed the tap in question.
Avivas engineers said that having looked at the item, it did appear to have been fitted in line 
with manufacturers instructions. They noted this was because visible indents had been left 
either side of the tap, evidencing that the grub screws which needed to secure the tap to the 
base had been tightened correctly. And, alongside these comments, Aviva provided 
photographs of the tap  showing these indents. Having reviewed these photos these do 
appear to be consistent with the comments made by the engineers and show indents on the 
item.
Mrs F has also provided photos of the tap, noting that these photos show that the grub 
screws werent fully depressed. And Mrs F has provided a document from the plumber she 
appointed  which said if the tap had been correctly fitted there would be indents  which 
looked similar to that which a dot punch would leave. With the plumbers comments, they 
included photos from a different job, on the same type of tap, showing these indents as an 
example. Looking at these photos, it does appear the indents on the example tap, and the 
tap from the late Mr and Mrs Hs property are similar. 
Given this, the above manufacturers information, and the comments provided by all experts, 
I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in noting the tap looked to have been fitted correctly, 
with the grub screws most likely correctly secured.  
In addition to this, Im aware the tap had been working for some months, prior to June 2019. 
Should there have been a problem with the way the tap was fitted by Aviva, I think it would 
have been likely to have become apparent nearer to the time when it was fitted.
It isnt for me to decide what actually happened in respect of the tap, or for Aviva to give an 
answer to this. There could be a wide range of reasons why the tap was found no longer 
attached to the sink. Rather, it is for me to decide whether Aviva fairly considered the 
possibility the tap was fitted incorrectly, and whether what was found suggested Aviva didnt 
carry out works in line with the manufacturer instructions. 
And given the above photos and information does suggest correct fitting was likely to have 
happened, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly here. So, I dont intend on asking it to do 
anything more.
Mrs F has also raised questioned why the make of tap that was used at the late Mr and Mrs 
Hs property is no longer used by Aviva. Whilst I understand Mrs Fs concerns here, I havent 
seen any evidence to show the tap is no longer being used because of faulty fitting or 
design. So, I dont think the point raised here changes my intended outcome on this 
complaint. Mrs F has noted that on one occasion the kitchen tap was fitted the wrong way around  with 
the cold tap being on the left, and the hot tap on the right  which is opposite to how taps are 
normally fixed. I can see that Aviva did make this error  and it isnt one I would expect a 
competent engineer to have made. But this incident happened after the incident in June 
2019. So, it doesnt provide me with any firm evidence to persuade me that the repair carried 
out in February 2019 was incorrect. And so, it doesnt change the outcome of this case 
either.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have any further evidence or 
comments to add on this complaint. Mrs F responded and explained she didnt agree.
In summary, Mrs F explained that shed got some macro photos of the tap in question 
completed. And, she acknowledged that there was evidence the grub screws had been 
deployed. But Mrs F felt there was a manufacturing fault with this type of tap. With the grub 
screw holes not being far enough apart, to allow them to engage and secure the tap. Mrs F 
said this made sense, as Aviva didnt use the tap anymore. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But, my final decision on this complaint does remain the same. My role here is to consider 
whether Aviva acted fairly in how it dealt with the home emergency claims the late Mr and 
Mrs H made. And that includes the tap that was fitted in February 2019, under the home 
emergency policy in place. 
It isnt for me to consider the conclusion on the late Mr Hs passing, or to consider the role of 
any other party to the matter. It isnt within this services remit to do this. 
And, based on what Ive seen, I still think its unlikely Aviva did anything wrong in the way it 
used and fitted the tap in this instance. Based on the comments noted in my provisional 
decision from experts in the field, it seems most likely Aviva fitted the tap in line with the 
manufacturer instructions. And the further submissions from Mrs F dont provide any 
evidence to show otherwise. Instead, the additional information provided acknowledges that 
the grub screws were deployed by Aviva. And so, Im satisfied the outcome of this case 
remains the same.
Mrs F has said it has now become clear there was a manufacturing fault with the tap fitted at 
the late Mr and Mrs Hs home. And she has provided photos and comments she received 
from an engineer she says evidences this. But as above, it isnt for me to consider the role of 
the manufacturer here  just Aviva. 
Mrs F has reiterated that Aviva no longer use the tap now  and she feels there must be a 
link to this and the manufacturing fault she notes was present. 
But, for information on a potential manufacturing fault to make a difference to the outcome of 
this case, Id need to be satisfied Aviva knew of a potential problem with this type of tap at 
the time of fitting this at the late Mr and Mrs Hs home, but still fitted this anyway. And Ive 
not seen anything to suggest this was the case. Aviva has noted that the tap had not been 
withdrawn from use due to its fittings or structure. And that it had no records of faulty 
supplies with these taps. As I havent seen any information to suggest Aviva knew about any 
potential problems with a tap, and fitted it anyway, I dont think it acted unreasonably. It fitted 
the tap in line with the manufacturer instructions. And so, my final decision on this case 
remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I 
dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr H 
and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman