DRN-3249934
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to add a benefit to his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W says that in June 2019, while speaking with Admiral, he was told he would be eligible 
for a Driving Other Cars benefit (DOC) once his policy renewed. This is because from the 
start date of the policy he would have been over the age of 25 - which is the eligibility age. 
As his occupation had changed since his last renewal, he asked Admiral to update it. They 
didnt have his exact job title on their system, so he said they picked the closest thing which 
was a fleet manager in the transport industry. Mr W says he wasnt told that, as he had been 
put down as a transport manager, it took away his right to the DOC benefit. 
Mr W says he only discovered this when he was pulled over while driving his mothers car. 
The car was seized, and he was issued with a fine and points on his license. He also had to 
pay £150 to have the car released. 
Mr W complained to Admiral who apologised for what had happened. They explained it was 
due to the occupation they had logged on his record. They sent Mr W an email explaining 
what had happened, and as a result the penalty/points were removed by the police. However 
Admiral didnt agree to pay the £150 to release the car. 
Admiral explained that, as they didnt hold Mr Ws exact occupation on their records, they 
had discussed it with him, and he had agreed for them to record the one that sounded like 
the best match. They explained that. if Mr W felt the occupation was wrong, he should have 
advised them of this before accepting the change. 
In relation to Mr W being able to drive other cars, Admiral checked his policy from its original 
start date in August 2016 and noted he had never had the cover. Due to this, they explained 
the call handler wouldnt have been able to tell him he didnt have the cover, as it had never 
been there in the past. They also explained that, at the time of the call in July 2019, Mr W 
would have been 24, and not eligible for the cover meaning there wouldnt have been a need 
to mention it. 
Since the incident, Mr Ws occupation has been updated to something more relevant to his 
role, and the DOC benefit has been added to his policy. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Admiral should cover the £150 impound cost, and 
that they should also pay Mr W £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. He 
explained that it all boiled down to Mr Ws occupation, and thought that, if Admiral had 
recorded the best option in the first place, Mr W would have been given the DOC cover and 
the incident wouldnt have happened. He also explained that Mr W was never told the DOC 
wouldnt be on his policy, so he wouldnt have known not to drive another car. 
Admiral disagreed. They said they never would have told Mr W about the DOC cover not 
being on the policy in 2019 as they wouldnt ever want anyone to give an incorrect date of 
birth to obtain it. 
They explained that Mr Ws renewal documents didnt make any indication that DOC cover 
was in place, and that Mr Ws policy explains that, should he be eligible for the cover, it 
would say so on his renewal letter. As Mr W had agreed to the occupation change, and as 
he hadnt checked his renewal documents, Admiral felt the complaint had been handled 
correctly. 
Because they didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2021, setting out my thoughts on Mr Ws 
complaint. The following is an extract from my provisional findings which were set out in the 
decision:
Having looked at everything, I disagree with the investigator. I believe that Admiral made 
Mr W aware that he didnt have DOC cover in place and therefore shouldnt do anything 
further. I will explain my findings below. 
To give some background, when looking at these types of complaints, we need to make sure 
that any unusual or significant terms or exclusions are clear enough in the documentation 
sent to the customer. If we dont think a term or exclusion is clear enough, we need to think 
about what action the customer would have likely taken if it was.
Mr W has explained that he believed he would be covered under the DOC benefit from the 
age of 25. I can understand this, as it is something that is commonly offered in most policies. 
When Mr W agreed to the occupation during his call with Admiral, he didnt know it would 
affect the benefit. But at the same time, I dont feel Admiral should have made it clear at this 
point that it wouldnt be offered, as Mr W didnt have DOC benefit at the time. I also dont find 
it reasonable for the call handler to have known every occupation that may prevent a benefit 
from being available on a policy. 
I have listened to a number of calls Mr W had with Admiral when he took out cover in 
June 2019, as hes said he was told he had the DOC benefit. Having listened to all of the 
calls I have, I couldnt find that Mr W was told he had DOC benefit during any of the 
conversations he had with Admiral. During the renewal call on 7 June 2019 the advisor said 
he could go through the policy and what it offers, but that the information is all on the 
website. Mr W agreed that was fine, so the advisor didnt go through any of the policy 
details. 
Because of this, I havent seen anything to support that he was told the DOC cover would be 
in place from renewal. I also listened to the call where Mr Ws occupation was discussed and changed. The advisor 
spent a lot of time with Mr W trying to select the correct job title, and Mr W agreed with what 
was selected. So I feel Admiral did enough to choose the occupation that was best suited to 
Mr W. 
Not offering the DOC benefit is a significant limitation, and Admiral needed to highlight 
somewhere that it wouldnt be included in the cover, as it is something commonly offered. 
Having looked through everything, I can see it was clearly outlined in the schedule of 
insurance which was sent to Mr W. At the end, in the box titled Extra Conditions, it excludes 
cover to drive other cars. 
This benefit is a common term of all insurance policies, so I can understand why Mr W 
assumed he had it. Admiral said that Mr Ws renewal documents didnt make any indication 
that DOC cover was in place, and his policy explains that, should he be eligible for the cover, 
it would say so on his renewal letter. Instead, the documents made it clear that this cover 
wouldnt be provided. 
When thinking about consequential loss for something a business has done wrong, I first 
need to decide whether the loss was a direct result of the thing that went wrong and, if so, 
whether it was reasonably foreseeable that the loss that subsequently occurred could arise 
from the original mistake. In this case, I cant conclude that Admiral have done anything 
wrong. 
I note that Admiral provided the police with a letter of indemnity. But they didnt have to do 
this, and they have told us it shouldnt have been provided. Even though they sent this it 
doesnt mean they should cover the release fee. And ultimately, had Admiral not sent the 
letter, I wouldnt have required them to do so.
Because of all the reasons above, I believe Admiral have acted fairly, and so I wont be 
asking them to do anything further. 
Neither party responded to my provisional findings and so the complaint has been passed 
back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to part from my provisional decision. 
As either party havent provided any information which changed my provisional decision, I 
have nothing further to add to what I have said already.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman