DRN-2940355
The complaint
 Mr Ws complaint is about a mobile phone insurance policy with Allianz Insurance Plc.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2021, part of which is copied below: 
Mr W took out the policy with Allianz when he purchased a phone in 2016. In December
2019, Mr W changed his phone and called Allianzs agents to add the new phone to his
insurance. Allianz confirmed the new phone was covered and Mr W continued to pay for the
insurance.
In October 2020, Mr W made a claim under the policy as his phone was stolen. Initially
Allianz told him the phone was not registered on the policy, then it confirmed it was but said
the phone was not covered, as it will only provide cover for devices that its agents have
supplied.
Allianz says Mr W was sent a welcome pack in 2016, which makes it very clear that the
insurance isnt transferrable  the terms and conditions are clear that any change of
handset will not be covered under this insurance and therefore  [he] ought reasonably to
have been aware that his new  handset would not be covered by his existing mobile phone
insurance. Allianz therefore maintained its refusal of the claim but said it would refund the
premiums paid since Mr W changed phones (i.e. £120) which it said would be credited
against his next airtime bill.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld. He said
Mr W should have been told the new phone would not be covered when he called Allianz in
December 2019 to register it. Allianz continued to take premiums from Mr W, so had
confirmed to him it was covered. If Mr W had known the phone would not have been
covered, he could have got insurance elsewhere. As Mr W was denied this chance, the
investigator recommended that Allianz meet the claim and pay £50 compensation for the
trouble caused. As the claim was to be met, the investigator said Allianz didnt have to
refund the premiums.
Allianz accepted the investigators assessment. However, it said it could not replace the
make and model of the phone that was stolen and so said it would pay a cash settlement in
lieu of replacement. It says this would be based on the cost of a refurbished replacement,
not a new one, as that is what the policy provides for.
Mr W doesnt accept the investigators assessment. He says he should not have to pay the
excess or the premiums given the trouble caused to him; and he had to purchase a
temporary, lower specification, phone for £300 to tide him over while this matter was being
dealt with.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whatever documentation was sent to Mr W when he first took out the policy in 2016, does
not negate the fact that he called to register a phone on the policy and Allianz failed to tell
him it would not be covered. Instead, Allianz confirmed the cover and continued to take the
premiums for almost a year. Mr W may have made an error about the terms of the policy but
Allianz bears the greater burden of responsibility in this situation. It is its policy after all.
Having confirmed Mr W was covered and taken the premiums for that cover, Allianz is
therefore obliged in my opinion to meet that claim. [In my opinion] there is a contractual 
obligation to do so, but even if that is not the case, then it would in any event be fair and 
reasonable to do so, as Mr W was denied the chance to get alternative insurance cover 
because of Allianzs error.
The policy does provide for refurbished replacements only and not a new phone. So a cash
in lieu settlement of the equivalent cost of a refurbished replacement would seem 
reasonable. Allianz has the details of Mr Ws phone but has not confirmed what cash amount
it is suggesting. I would ask it to provide that information in response to this provisional
decision.
Mr W has said he is also out-of-pocket because he had to buy a lesser quality phone to use
until he was able to replace the insured phone. I am not convinced he should be reimbursed
the cost of that phone (which was also a refurbished model and which cost £300) in addition
to receiving the cost of a replacement. However, interest should be added to the cash
settlement from the date of the claim to the date of reimbursement at our usual rate of 8%
per annum.
I also agree that some additional compensation is warranted, over and above the settlement
of the claim, for the trouble this matter has caused Mr W. I consider the total amount of £150
is more appropriate.
As Mr W would have been required to pay the premiums if Allianz had not made this error, I
do consider they are payable. Allianz said the refund would be made by way of a credit note
against Mr Ws airtime contract. That was not a reasonable way of refunding premiums
which should not have been taken from him. The airtime contract is a separate contract from
his insurance in any event. However, as the premiums are due and will need to be offset
against the compensation, then if Allianz has already credited Mr Ws airtime contract, it only
needs to now pay him the outstanding balance of £30.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance Limited and require it to meet
Mr Ws claim by way of a cash settlement (to be confirmed), together with interest; and pay
Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this
matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or arguments they want considered. 
Mr W confirmed he reluctantly accepts my provisional decision. He says he feels he has no 
choice, as he wants the matter resolved, but I have not taken due consideration of the fact 
he had to buy himself another phone and that he will only get the cost of a refurbished phone 
back meaning he will have lost out financially. 
Allianz has confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and says it has nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence again, I remain of the opinion that Allianz should meet   
Mr Ws claim. In order to do so, Allianz should provide a replacement phone of the same, or 
reasonably comparable, make and model. The policy, like all other mobile phone policies, 
provides that this can be a refurbished model and not brand new. This is not unreasonable 
as the policy provides like-for-like cover (rather than new-for-old), so it is intended to replace 
the insured device with one similar in age and condition. While I understand why Mr W is 
unhappy with this, it is in line with the policy terms and I am not persuaded this is 
unreasonable. 
Allianz says it cant provide a replacement of the same make and model of Mr Ws phone, so 
unless there is a reasonable alternative that Mr W would be happy with, a cash settlement in 
lieu is reasonable. As Allianz is entitled to provide a refurbished model as a replacement, it 
follows that the cash settlement would reasonably be the cost of a refurbished model. I did 
ask Allianz to confirm the amount of any proposed cash settlement in response to my 
provisional decision but it has not done so. This will have to be agreed with the parties and 
as stated in my provisional decision interest should be added at our usual rate.  
Mr W is also unhappy that he had to buy an alternative phone while waiting for settlement of 
this claim. While I can understand why Mr W bought a replacement phone himself, theres 
no evidence he could not have replaced his insured phone for a similar price. I am not 
therefore persuaded it would be reasonable to require Allianz to reimburse this cost, in 
addition to replacing the insured phone. 
I also remain of the opinion that Allianz should pay an additional £150 compensation, less 
any refund of premiums made to him, if any.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance Limited and require it to do the following: 
1. meet Mr Ws claim, by way of a cash settlement (to be confirmed), together with 
interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim to the date of 
reimbursement. (If Mr W prefers and Allianz is able to now source either the same 
make and model as his insured phone, or a reasonable alternative, it should provide 
a replacement phone instead.) 
2. Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this matter. If it has reimbursed any of the premiums paid for this policy, it 
can deduct that amount from this payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman