DRN-1930331
 
The complaint
Mr L says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans  DDL) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L had five instalment loans with DDL  three in 2017 and two in 2019. Ive set out a brief 
summary of the loans in the table below.
Loan no. Amount Start date End date
1 £250 25/07/2017 07/08/2017
2 £300 25/08/2017 06/09/2017
3 £200 15/10/2017 31/10/2017
break in lending
4 £200 18/07/2019 unknown
5 £200 20/10/2019 unknown
An adjudicator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr L 
disagreed and so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
DDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that DDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that DDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done this, I dont think Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive seen that before lending to Mr L, DDL asked him to provide some information about his 
monthly income and expenditure. It also carried out credit checks and following these made 
adjustments to Mr Ls declared expenditure to work out what it thought his disposable 
income was. Having done this, DDL decided that the five loans it approved would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr L. I think the checks DDL carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate and suggested these loans were affordable. I dont therefore think DDL acted 
unfairly by providing these loans.
In saying the above I took into account the pattern of lending and have noted that the first 
three loans were taken out in relatively quick succession. But at the same time, theres no 
clear pattern of the loan amounts increasing and the period of lending covering loans 1 to 3 
only lasted three months, followed by a significant break before loans 4 and 5 were 
approved. So I dont think the pattern of lending demonstrated that Mr L was in financial 
difficulty.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr L, but I do not think his complaint should be upheld.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman