DRN-2832653
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
The information Mr D has sent to us together with the brief information from Shelby has 
shown us that Mr D was approved for two loans. We have no credit agreements and no 
credit search results from Shelby. We have bank statements and two of Mr Ds own credit 
reports. 
Using what we have, here is a table of the two loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Repayment rate and 
term (taken from credit 
reports) Repaid
1 10 November 2017 £300 £89 for 6 months 25 May 2018
2 8 June 2018 £600 
(applied for £800) £96 for 12 months 25 July 2019 
Other information from Shelby from its brief account notes and its final response letter (FRL) 
to Mr D in March 2021 is that: 
- Mr D had told Shelby he was living at home with his parents and he had an income of 
£1,750; and 
- he had said his outgoings were
Mortgage/rent/other £350
Utility £300
Food £100
Travel cost £60
Payments to credit i.e. loans £636 
Other £100
That leaves an amount left over of around £204. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint twice. The first time she thought there was one loan 
only and the second time she reassessed the complaint with the two loans. She apologised 
to Mr D for the error.
Both times, our adjudicator did not think that Shelby had lent to Mr D irresponsibly. 
Mr D disagreed. The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. This is not applicable in Mr Ds 
circumstances as he took two loans only which are not enough to create a pattern. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D would have been a new customer when he applied for Loan 1. He was applying for a 
relatively modest loan of £300 over a relatively short term of six months, so I would have 
expected Shelby to have been able to rely on the information gathered from Mr D. Using the 
information it has told me it had from Mr D, then it does appear that his salary could cover all 
his expenditure commitments and the loan 1 repayments each month. So, it would have 
looked affordable. I do not think that Shelby needed to do more. Mr D repaid Loan 1 early and then applied for a new loan about a week later in June 2018. 
This was for double the amount and for a longer term of 12 months. So, I would have 
expected Shelby to have carried out some additional checks. But for a second loan I would 
not have been expecting Shelby to carry out a full financial review of all of Mr Ds 
circumstances as this would have been disproportionate.  
For both loans I see that Mr D had told Shelby that he had other loan commitments costing 
him around £636 a month. So, it was on notice that Mr D had other credit commitments but 
unless I had seen the credit searches carried out by Shelby then I do not know what Shelby 
saw before it approved Loan 2. These £636 monthly commitments may have been for 
several ordinary loans and not necessarily high-cost or short-term credit loans. 
I note that in its FRL in March 2021, it has said that it carried out a credit search for the loan. 
Before writing this decision I asked Shelby again for the documentation to support that. It 
has not been able to send us anything further. That is disappointing for a loan applied for 
four years ago, but there is little I can do about it. 
And looking at the overall picture received by Shelby, I think that a loan costing £96 a month 
for Mr D who had declared his income and expenditure figures, and that he was living at 
home with his parents would not have seemed unaffordable. 
I know that more recently Mr D has told us that he earned more like £2,100 a month at the 
time (not the £1,750 he declared to Shelby) and his commitments to a series of high-cost 
short term lenders was high (around £563 a month excluding the Shelby loans). 
Even on his own figures I can see that its likely Mr D was able to afford the Shelby loans. 
And in 2017 and 2018 he had declared £636 for other loans to Shelby, plus his other 
expenditure and even with the lower declared income figure of £1,750, still it would have 
looked affordable. 
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman