DRN-4198081
The complaint
Ms H  complains about how Euroins AD dealt with a claim against her travel insurance 
policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in January 2022, Ms H purchased an annual travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Euroins. She chose the premier cover level. The policy started on 
4 February 2022. Ms H went on a trip with departure and return dates of 17 July 2022 
and 25 July 2022 respectively. On arrival at the airport at her first destination, Ms H 
discovered that her luggage was missing. On 19 July 2022, Ms H purchased 
replacement items. Ms Hs luggage was returned to her on 21 July 2022.
In July 2022, Ms H made a claim against her policy for £208.77. Euroins paid Ms H £25 
which it said was under the delayed baggage provisions in the policy. They directed    
Ms H to the airline in relation to her other losses. 
Ms H complained about Euroins settlement of her claim. She doesnt think that Euroins 
settled her claim fairly. Ms H says that the policy says that it will pay £25 per day for 
delayed baggage up to a maximum of five days but it paid her for only one day. She 
says that she spent more than the maximum allowed in one shopping trip. Ms H wants 
Euroins to settle her claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, he didnt think that 
Euroins had treated Ms H unfairly. Ms H didnt agree with the investigator. He 
reconsidered the matter. The investigator said that Euroins should settle Ms Hs claim for 
£125 - the delay benefit of £25 for five days. He also said that he was satisfied that       
Ms Hs losses arent recoverable from any other source. 
Euroins didnt agree with the investigator. It said that he had misinterpreted the policy 
terms and that the policy provides that it will pay up to the amount shown in the summary 
of cover (£25) for the cost of buying replacement necessities. Euroins asked that an 
ombudsman consider the matter, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Ms H has made a separate complaint about the service she received. That isnt dealt 
with here. 
My provisional decision 
On 9 June 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint but for different reasons and with a different outcome than 
suggested before. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
PERSONAL POSSESSIONS AND BAGGAGE
What you are covered for
[]
2. We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the cost of buying 
replacement necessities if your baggage is delayed in reaching you on your outward journey 
for at least 12 hours and you have a written report from the carrier to confirm this.
[]
What you are NOT covered for
[]
15. any property more specifically insured or recoverable under (sic) any other source. []
The summary of cover is a table, the relevant part of which says as follows:
SUMMARY OF COVER
Cover
Per person unless otherwise 
shown[] Premier Cover
Limits up to
[] []
Personal Possessions and 
Baggage
[]
Delayed Baggage[]
£25 per day
To a maximum of £150
has the claim been settled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Euroins has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold   
Ms Hs complaint but for different reasons and with a different outcome than have been set 
out before. Ill explain why. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant policy terms. The policy doesnt provide a daily fixed 
benefit of £25 per day for delayed baggage. Subject to the policy terms, it provides 
cover for up to £25 per day (to a maximum of £150) for the cost of buying 
replacement necessities if baggage is delayed for at least 12 hours. Also, theres 
no cover for the general inconvenience of delayed baggage. I dont think that Euroins was at fault in initially referring Ms H to the airline. Thats 
because the policy doesnt cover losses recoverable elsewhere. But in the 
circumstances here, given the level of the claim, Euroins agreed to deal with       
Ms Hs claim. I think that was fair. In any event, the airline subsequently declined 
Ms Hs claim.  
I think that Euroins acted in accordance with the policy terms when it paid Ms H 
£25. Thats because Ms H bought replacement necessities on only one day -         
19 July 2022. So, in accordance with the policy terms, Euroins is only obliged to 
pay £25 for Ms Hs expenditure on replacement necessities. But I dont think that 
results in a fair outcome in this case. 
Ms H was on an organised tour which moved location. So, her itinerary, transport, 
and opportunity to shop werent in her direct control. Ms H has explained that she 
didnt have an opportunity to buy clothes or toiletries until 19 July 2022. In the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think its fair and reasonable for Euroins to 
reassess Ms Hs claim as if she bought her replacement essentials over three 
days. 
Ive referred to three days, as Ms Hs flight was due to land at 1.45 pm on             
17 July 2022. I understand that it was slightly delayed. The policy provision applies 
after baggage delay of at least 12 hours. So, it wasnt until 18 July 2022 that the 
policy provisions in relation to delayed baggage were activated. And Ms Hs 
luggage was returned to her in the early hours of 21 July 2022, so was available to 
her on that day. Ive noted what Ms H says about the circumstances of the return of 
her baggage and the fact that she couldnt use her returned baggage until later on     
21 July 2022, but thats not Euroins responsibility.  
In considering whats fair and reasonable in this case Ive noted that Ms Hs claim 
is modest and that she didnt spend excessive amounts. If Ms H had been able to 
do so, she would no doubt have purchased replacement necessities over a number 
of days and bought new or top-up items daily, as the need arose, until her baggage 
was returned to her. So, I think its fair and reasonable to direct Euroins to assess 
her claim as if she made the purchases over three days. 
Euroins may take into account the payment it has already made to Ms H. As Ms H 
has been kept out of the use of the settlement, Euroins should pay interest on any 
additional settlement, from the date of Ms Hs claim, to the date of payment. 
Its not for this service to assess Ms Hs claim but I would point out that the policy 
covers replacement necessities. The policy doesnt cover additional transport costs 
in the circumstances that arose here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Ms H nor Euroins agreed with my provisional decision. Ms H said, in summary:
Euroins hasnt taken into account that she bought the premier policy.
The settlement of £25 she received from Euroins is a pittance compared with what 
she spent following the baggage delay.
The policy seems like a waste of money.She had to spend over £200 and Euroins should reimburse that amount. 
Euroins relied on the policy terms and said that as Ms H had purchased replacement items 
on one day it paid the maximum of £25. It said that it didnt agree that it should review the 
claim and settle it based on purchases on three days, as thats not what happened here.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account that Ms H chose the premier cover level. The cover is for up to £25 
per day to a maximum of £150. 
As I said in my provisional decision, insurance policies arent designed to cover every 
eventuality or situation. An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out 
in the terms and conditions of the policy document. 
Euroins isnt obliged to reimburse the amount Ms H spent following the delay of her 
baggage. In general terms, insurers are entitled to rely on the terms and conditions of the 
policy in assessing a claim. Euroins acted within the terms of the policy when it paid Ms H 
£25. I appreciate that is much less than Ms H spent but, strictly speaking, thats what shes 
entitled to under the policy terms. But, for the reasons Ive explained I dont think that leads 
to a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.  
Euroins is right to say that Ms H didnt buy replacement necessities over three days. Ms H 
has explained the circumstances she was in  she was on an organised tour with several 
locations and her opportunities to shop were severely limited. I remain of the view that in the 
particular circumstances of this case, its fair and reasonable for Euroins to reassess Ms Hs 
claim as if she bought her replacement essential items over three days. That fairly reflects 
the circumstances in which Ms H found herself. And its not unfair to Euroins, as thats what 
it would have paid if Ms H had been able to shop over three days. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Euroins should:
Reassess Ms Hs claim on the basis that she bought replacement necessities on 
three days. In doing so, Euroins may have regard to the remaining policy terms and 
may deduct from the settlement the £25 it has already paid to Ms H. 
Pay interest on any further settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the 
date of the claim to the date of payment.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Euroins AD should now take the steps Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman