DRN-2329381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a mortgage.
Ill refer to the business as Santander in this decision to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Santander in 2004, during a meeting. At the same 
time, they took out a PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly premium for the policy. It protected their monthly mortgage 
payments if either of them was off sick, or if they lost their job. The monthly benefit was 
£505, and was spilt between Mr and Mrs B so that it would have paid 75% of that amount if 
Mr B had made a successful claim, and 25% if Mrs B had made a successful claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander no longer has copies of all of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs B signed when 
they took out the mortgage. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that this 
was so long ago. 
Based on what we know about the way Santander sold PPI at that time, its adviser would 
normally carry out an analysis to establish what insurance, if any, the customer needed, 
taking into account their existing means. The adviser would then, if appropriate, 
recommend that they take PPI, and ask whether they wanted it. Then, if the customer 
decided to take the PPI, theyd have needed to fill in an application form specifically for 
the PPI, and sign a separate direct debit instruction for it. 
Once the application form for PPI was complete, it would have been sent to the insurer, 
for the policy to be set up. Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter that the insurer sent to 
Mr and Mrs B in 2004. It refers to them choosing to take out Paymentcare (a form of 
PPI). And it tells them when their PPI premiums would be collected and how much they 
were.
Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs B say Santanders adviser said it was part of its 
mortgage process that PPI had to be taken before the mortgage would be granted. 
I cant know exactly what was said at the meeting in 2004. But I dont have any particular 
reason to think that Santander wouldnt have followed its usual sales process in Mr and 
Mrs Bs case. And I cant fairly conclude that they were told they had to take the PPI, 
based purely on their recollection of a conversation that took place so many years ago.
Overall, I think its more likely than not that Santander discussed PPI with Mr and Mrs B 
at the meeting, and that they decided to take it out, knowing that they didnt have to  
although I can understand how they may no longer remember this, so many years later.
It isnt in dispute that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This means that 
it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it looks as if it was 
suitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that theyd both have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from their respective employers at the time if theyd 
been off sick. But the policy would have paid 75% (in Mr Bs case) or 25% (in Mrs Bs 
case) of the monthly benefit of £505 for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats 
longer than theyve told us theyd have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr or Mrs B received from their 
employers. So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B say that they had significant savings when they took 
the mortgage out. But Ive borne in mind that theyd chosen to protect those, rather than 
taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have allowed them to keep 
their savings, or use them to pay for other things, if either of them had been off sick or 
lost their job.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr and Mrs B. 
The mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on their property, and the 
consequences of not keeping up with payments could have been serious.
I accept that its possible that Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't 
cover (for example, provisions about existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
arrangements). But from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have been affected by any of these.
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and 
Mrs B couldnt afford it. And as they were paying for it monthly, they could have 
cancelled the policy at any time if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they 
no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that better information would have put 
Mr and Mrs B off taking out the PPI. 
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about the 
adviser having been pushy. But while I accept that Santander recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs B, I cant fairly conclude that unfair pressure was put on them to take the PPI, 
based purely on their recollection of events that took place so many years ago. 
Mr and Mrs B have also commented that they werent told they could buy PPI elsewhere. 
But Santander wasnt obliged to tell them about products that might have been available 
from other providers. Finally, Mr and Mrs B say they werent told, when they took out the policy, that it could be 
cancelled. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs B knew the 
policy was optional. And if theyd decided they no longer wanted the cover, I think its likely 
theyd have contacted Santander to enquire about cancelling it. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that they did so.
This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs B. But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and 
Mrs B about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offers fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so. Santander should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs B any extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman