DRN-2587140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont give them a cash refund of the 
premiums they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a travel insurance policy, and the insurer was Great Lakes. It was an 
annual multi-trip policy covering them between 29 February 2020 and 27 February 2021. 
They paid £201.82 for the policy, and it included cover for some medical conditions that Mr P 
had declared.
Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy on 15 June 2020. The two holidays theyd booked for 
April and June 2020 were cancelled due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Mr and Mrs P said that 
theyd got full refunds for the cancelled holidays from the providers.
Mr and Mrs P said that due to their current financial situation, age and their health, they had 
no confidence theyd want to travel outside of the UK again. They also said they wont need 
insurance for travel in the UK due to other cover they have in place.
Great Lakes said that as the policy was cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period, there 
was no refund due as per the terms of the policy. It also explained that Mr and Mrs P had 
benefitted from having cancellation cover in place while the insurer was on risk. But Great 
Lakes offered Mr and Mrs P pro-rata credit voucher towards buying a new 15-month annual 
policy for the price of 12 months, a deferred annual policy or a UK only annual multi trip 
policy. 
The voucher was originally available until 31 July 2020, but Great Lakes has since said its 
available for 36 months from the date when the policy was cancelled, and it can be used to 
purchase a single trip or an annual policy. Great Lakes has also confirmed that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, its happy for Mr and Mrs P to gift their voucher to another 
party, but it cannot be sold on.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, he thought Great Lakes had acted 
fairly and reasonably by offering Mr and Mrs P a pro-rata credit voucher. He didnt think 
there was anything else Great Lakes needed to do, to put things right.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, they say the voucher has no value to them. They 
say that due to Mr Ps medical conditions, they dont anticipate feeling safe to travel abroad 
for some time or wont be able to afford to do so. They say Mr P is defined as extremely 
clinically vulnerable under the current COVID-19 advice.
Mr and Mrs P also say they received monetary refunds for the trips that were cancelled, so 
they didnt use the policy at any point before cancelling it. And they wouldnt be able to use 
the voucher offered for the reasons explained. Mr and Mrs P say they cancelled the policy at 
the earliest possible point when their second trip was cancelled.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained in detail the regulatory rules and guidance that are relevant here. 
In summary, under these rules Mr and Mrs P had 14 days to cancel their policy without 
penalty and without giving any reason. But they still wouldnt have been entitled to a full 
refund of the premium they paid  Great Lakes wouldve still been entitled to apply a 
reasonable pro-rata charge for the time on cover.
But Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy after the 14-day period. The terms of their policy said 
that in this situation no premium would be refunded, but discretion may be exercised in 
exceptional circumstances. Examples of these included circumstances such as bereavement 
or a change in a policyholders medical conditions.
So, that means the cancellation rights under Mr and Mrs Ps contract of insurance are more 
favourable to them than is required by industry rules. Ive thought if Great Lakes shouldve 
considered the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. But I dont think it 
needed to. This is because the examples of the exceptional circumstances are specific to 
the individual policyholder, rather than this type of situation which affected many 
policyholders. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs P are entitled to any refund of premiums under 
the terms of the policy.
But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy started on 29 February 2020, and theyd made plans to travel in April 
and June 2020. They couldve also made other plans to travel. Irrespective of the fact that 
Mr and Mrs P got a refund from the travel providers, that doesnt change the fact that Great 
Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force.
But when Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under the 
policy for any upcoming holiday. The holidays had already been cancelled, and Great Lakes 
hadnt paid a claim in relation to these. In the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19 global pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great 
Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs P a pro-rata premium they paid for their policy from the date 
the policy was cancelled.
Ive thought about if Great Lakes should offer a pro-rata monetary refund instead of the 
voucher its offered. But based on what Ive seen, I think the voucher is a fair alternative to a 
monetary refund in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Firstly, while I understand why Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy, it was their decision to do 
so. But they had entered a contract with Great Lakes, which accepted the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy. The voucher means the risk Great Lakes has agreed to 
accept is moved to a future date. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are concerned they wont 
be able to buy cover for the same period of time, at the same price. But I still think the offer 
of a pro-rata voucher is fair given that Great Lakes has made an offer which goes beyond 
what they were required to do by the relevant industry rules and the policy terms. I accept that Mr and Mrs P may be unwilling to travel in the current circumstances, and it 
might be a while until theyre able to do so. And I accept what Mr and Mrs P say about Mr P 
currently being vulnerable. But I dont think the reasons theyve given mean I could fairly say 
that they wont be able to travel at all before the voucher expires. For example, I havent 
seen anything to say that theres been a significant change in Mr Ps health  the conditions 
Mr and Mrs P have referred to were declared to Great Lakes when they took out the policy.
The voucher Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months, it can be used to buy a single 
trip or annual policy, and it can be gifted to another party. I dont think the terms of the 
voucher are unreasonably restrictive, and I think the voucher is a fair offer in the 
circumstances of this case.
Im also satisfied Great Lakes has calculated the value of the voucher reasonably. It says the 
premium it charges covers the whole time on cover equally, and it isnt split between pre-
travel and post-departure cover. Great Lakes has calculated the value of the voucher based 
on the days left on the policy cover period after it was cancelled and so the refund reflects 
the unused period of cover. I think this is fair because this was the point after which Great 
Lakes didnt bear any risk under the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think the offer Great Lakes has made is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr and Mrs P should contact Great Lakes if theyd 
like to accept the voucher.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer a pro-
rata voucher is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman