DRN-3344191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the partial settlement offer made by Allianz Global 
Assistance (Allianz) on their travel insurance cancellation claim.
Mr and Mrs N would like a full refund of the costs they incurred.
Any reference to Allianz includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. The policy 
is underwritten by Allianz. 
On 12 February 2020, Mr and Mrs N booked a bareboat charter for two weeks. The boat 
was able to have a maximum of seven guests. Their intended travel dates were from 22 
August 2020 until 5 September 2020. Mr and Mrs N paid the total cost of the charter and 
they were going to be joined by their two daughters, a week at a time, over the two weeks. 
On 20 August 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) - previously
known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but essential 
travel to the country where the boat was due to be chartered. This advice remained in place 
until beyond the intended date of Mr and Mrs Ns travel. So, they decided to cancel the 
charter.
Mr and Mrs N attempted to recover the cost of the charter from the charter company and 
also through their credit card provider. Neither of these offered a refund. The charter 
company however offered a credit voucher for Mr and Mrs N to make a booking in the next 
year in the same boat. Mr and Mrs N did not want to accept this and said it was impractical 
for them to rebook because of both their ages and that they were vulnerable. 
They therefore made a claim on their travel insurance policy with Allianz. It declined the 
claim initially because the charter company offered Mr and Mrs N the option to rebook at a 
future date and said the cost was recoverable. However, Mr and Mrs N said the option to 
rebook was impractical for them because of their ages and that they were both vulnerable. 
Allianz reconsidered the claim and decided to settle it partially as a gesture of goodwill and 
with no admission of liability. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs N two thirds of the cost of the 
charter. This was because their daughters were due to join them for a week each and they 
werent beneficiaries under the policy. Allianz therefore their daughters should claim under 
their own travel insurance policies. Allianz also said that Mr and Mrs N hadnt taken out 
guest insurance, so it was only liable for both Mr and Mrs Ns share of the financial loss.
Further communication went back and forth between the two parties as Mr and Mrs N had 
pointed out that they paid for the full cost of the charter and their daughters had not suffered 
the financial loss. They say under the policy they have cover for the cancellation of the 
chartered boat and the event that caused this  FCDO advising against all but essential 
travel  was one that was covered. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She said under the policy terms and conditions, because Mr and Mrs N were offered a credit 
voucher with an option of making a future booking, the cost was recoverable and therefore 
the claim isnt covered. She said Allianz were entitled to decline Mr and Mrs Ns claim. 
She also said that Allianz offered a partial settlement on a goodwill basis and without 
admission of liability. It offered to pay two thirds of claim cost which was the policy 
beneficiarys proportion of the booking  their daughters proportion was deducted. This was 
at Allianzs discretion and the offer was made with no admission of liability. Our investigator 
said the claim hadnt been accepted as it was settled on a goodwill basis.   
Mr and Mrs N disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr and Mrs N say that because the claim has been accepted by Allianz, it isnt fair that the 
offer is limited to the insured beneficiaries proportion of the booking. They say their 
daughters didnt incur the financial loss as they paid the full cost of the charter. They would 
like the full cost of the charter refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns travel policy as this 
forms the basis of their contract with Allianz.
Under the cancellation and curtailment/loss of holiday section of their policy on page 24, it 
says:
Section 4  Cancellation and curtailment/loss of holiday If beneficiaries are forced to:
a) cancel their trip before their outward travel or curtail their trip after departure
(under (i) below, curtailment cover is extended to include cover for loss of holiday
where applicable for a period in excess of 24 hours), as a direct and necessary result
of any cause listed below 
(vi) The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the equivalent government
authority in the beneficiarys country of residence advising against all travel
or all but essential travel to the beneficiarys intended destination. For specific
country advice, you can visit the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
website at www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
The insurer will pay
In the case of cancellation, the beneficiarys share of: the cost of deposits and trip expenses (including interconnecting flights) which
are not recoverable from any other source, or 
While the policy provides cover for cancellation where the FCDO advises against all but 
essential travel, the cover is for those costs which are not recoverable from any other 
source. This is a common term found in most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the 
market as insurance is intended to step in as a last resort where a policyholder has no other 
means of recovering their loss. 
A voucher does have an intrinsic financial value. Id generally consider the offer of a voucher 
to mean that a consumer should reasonably be considered to have recovered their loss from 
elsewhere. This is subject to the terms of that voucher not being unduly restrictive and/or 
taking the consumers individual circumstances into account. 
Theres limited information available to me about the terms of the voucher which Mr and Mrs 
N were offered  and Mr and Mrs N havent provided the information weve asked for about 
the terms of the voucher. 
Ive considered the terms of the voucher that I am aware of, as well as Mr and Mrs Ns 
individual circumstances. Overall, I dont think theres any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could say the voucher is unduly restrictive. So, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for 
Allianz to initially decline the claim as the cost was recoverable.
Allianz subsequently reconsidered its position and made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs N a 
partial settlement. This was as a gesture of goodwill  and outside of the cover offered by 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, its not correct to say Allianz has accepted the 
claim.
Allianz has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs N more than I think it needed to under the 
terms and conditions of their policy, so I wont be directing Allianz to do anything further. 
It's therefore up to Mr and Mrs N to now decide whether they wish to accept the offer or not. 
If they wish to accept it, they should contact Allianz directly and inform it of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Allianz Global 
Assistance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman