DRN-1186313
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two personal 
loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs O took out the policies in 1998 and 2000 at the same time as arranging the 
loans. Although they were joint loans, the policies were set up just to cover Mr O for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs O say it wasnt made clear that the policies were optional. The loan in 1998 was 
taken out in branch and the loan in 2000 was taken out over the phone. Ive seen copies of 
the loan agreements for both sales. Each one includes a table of financial information that 
includes a separate column for Optional Credit Insurance. These detail the cost of the PPI 
premium, the interest payable, the total amount payable and the monthly cost. Rather than 
being small print that could easily have been missed, the table (and the PPI information 
within it) is a prominent part of the form.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process at the time, there would have been some 
discussion about PPI and then the loan agreement was printed out afterwards. If someone 
didnt want PPI then there would be no mention of it on the loan agreement. 
The sales happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Os 
recollection of events has faded somewhat. Based on the available evidence I consider that 
it is more likely than not that there was some discussion of the policies. It seems to me that 
Mr and Mrs O probably decided to buy them, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they 
no longer remember doing so.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs O. So it didnt need to ensure that 
they were suitable. But Nationwide did need to provide Mr and Mrs O with enough 
information for them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policies 
were right for them.I consider that Mr and Mrs O would have known something about the policies  that they 
would have covered their loan repayments if Mr O was unable to work  because I dont 
think theyd have decided to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about it.
As Ive mentioned above, the credit agreements set out the full cost of the policies, so I think 
Mr and Mrs O would have known what theyd be paying for them.
Mrs O says she would have received six months full pay, followed by six months half pay 
from her employer if she was off sick. However, as it wasnt Mrs O that was covered by the 
policies, it is Mr Os sick pay that is more relevant  and he has said that he cant remember 
how much sick pay his employer would have given him. Regardless of this, the policies 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr O would 
have received full pay for. And the couple didnt have any other means, such as savings, to 
fall back on. So overall I think they had a need for the policies and could have benefitted 
from them.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has belatedly said that the couple were taking out the loans 
to consolidate debt. However, information from Nationwide shows that the first loan was 
taken out to buy a car. And Mr and Mrs O have themselves said that they took out the loans 
for home improvements. 
The cancellation terms meant that Mr and Mrs O would have received a proportionate 
refund, so they wouldnt have been disadvantaged if theyd wanted to settle the loans and 
cancel the PPI early (which in fact they did do). So I dont think more information about the 
cancellation terms would have made a difference.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided clearer information about the policies, 
particularly about the things that they didnt cover. But Mr O wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr and Mrs O had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think more information would have caused them to change their minds. So they arent any 
worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman