DRN-1902930
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr C has with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Mr C says he didnt receive notification that his preferential rate was coming to an end before 
it happened.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
This is a BTL mortgage and not subject to regulation. Theres no requirement for a 
lender to send out a reminder before a preferential rate is due to end on a BTL 
mortgage. Theres also no requirement for a lender to chase up BTL customers who 
dont get in contact with it to apply for a new rate. There may be a good reason why a 
consumer wouldnt apply for a new rate; for example, if they were in the process of 
selling the property or remortgaging elsewhere.
That said, Im satisfied Barclays sent out a letter on 4 October 2019. Whilst Mr C 
might want to see more proof that the letter was sent than the screen shot Barclays 
has provided, Im satisfied that screen shot is enough, and is in line with what Id 
expect to see from a mortgage lender for a mailing like that.
The communications preference page Mr C sent to us says We can send most of 
our letters to you by email or online instead of post. The key word in that is most, it 
doesnt say it will send all letters that way. Barclays has explained that due to system 
constraints it cant issue letters about Mr Cs BTL mortgage via the online system so 
it did nothing wrong in instead sending it out by post, as it would all his 
correspondence about his BTL mortgage.
Mr C entered into a contract in 2017 for an interest rate that was fixed until 
3 November 2019 and then would move to a variable rate. The onus is on a BTL 
customer to manage their BTL business, whether they own one property (as an 
accidental landlord) or a portfolio of properties. A BTL customer - as part of 
managing that BTL business - should know what mortgage product they have, at 
what rate and when that ends. The letter Barclays sent was simply a notification of 
what the new monthly payment would be going forward. Barclays set out the details 
of the contract upfront in the mortgage offer. I know Mr C thinks Barclays should 
have done more, but it didnt have to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman