DRN-3797151
The complaint
Mr K complains that he should have had a payment holiday on his loan from Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr K had a personal loan from Barclays. It was originally for £22,900 and was drawn in 
October 2018. Monthly payments were £574.91. Mr K ran into difficulties because of the 
pandemic and called Barclays to ask for a payment holiday (PH) in April 2020. This wasnt 
put in place. Barclays agreed a standstill agreement instead. The repayments werent made 
and the loan fell into arrears. Barclays sent Mr K arrears letters in May 2020 and June 2020. 
In October 2020, Barclays agreed to a payment plan under their resolve scheme. This was 
for an interest free loan for the balance, with payments of £207.78 each month. Two 
qualifying payments were made  in November 2020 and December 2020, but the third one 
wasnt made. In February 2021, Barclays sent Mr K a Notice of Default which asked for 
payment of the arrears of £5,700.67 by 11 March 2021. This wasnt paid and Barclays 
defaulted the loan. In November 2022, the balance was £18,966.59.
Mr K complained. He said he had been given a payment holiday (PH) in April 2020, and so 
the arrears on the loan, and the default, werent fair. 
Barclays declined Mr Ks complaint. They said that when Mr K called in April 2020, the next 
monthly payment on the loan was due within four days and so a PH couldnt be set up. An 
informal arrangement was put in place which suspended payments, but arrears would still be 
built up. Mr K was advised of this on the call, and that a default would be applied after six 
months of missed payments. Since April 2020, Barclays wanted to discuss Mr Ks income 
and expenditure with him  to see what could be agreed as a payment plan. They tried to 
contact Mr K, without success. So, because of this, the loan defaulted.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted reasonably. When Mr 
K called them in April 2020, he was advised a PH couldnt be agreed at that time. Our 
investigator could see why a PH wasnt agreed.  A three-month arrangement was put in 
place instead, and when Mr Ks work picked up he was to call Barclays to discuss what 
could be done then. No payments were made for the three-month period and then Barclays 
called Mr K in September 2020. They wanted to complete an income and expenditure 
affordability, but this wasnt done as Mr K said he didnt have the time. And when payments 
werent then made, a default was registered  as Mr K had missed more than six payments.
Mr K didnt agree. Barclays then reviewed his complaint again and said they might have 
been more sympathetic to his request for a PH in April 2020. So, in May 2020, they offered a 
resolve interest free loan of £19,000 to Mr K, payable over 92 months, with monthly 
payments of £206.93. Mr K was to make three monthly payments  to show he could afford 
these, and then the default and arrears would be removed from his credit file. Mr K 
considered this over a long period but in November 2022, he said he didnt accept the offer 
as he said interest was still accruing. He said this was unfair.
And so  Mr Ks complaint has come to me as ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K called Barclays in April 2020 to ask for a payment holiday. His income was affected by 
the pandemic. In such circumstances, Barclays had to decide whether he qualified for a PH. 
To say what the scheme was: in April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 
pandemic. All lenders, including Barclays, had to put in place payment holidays on many 
credit agreements, including personal loans  to help customers who were affected. 
Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby 
payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference 
agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided 
by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was 
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent 
normally agreed.
And so here  for Barclays to agree a PH, they had to be sure it qualified under the scheme 
 in other words, to make sure Mr K could return to work in the short term  within three 
months or so  so he could resume payments. On the call, that wasnt clear  Mr K said he 
couldnt afford the payments, but there wasnt a discussion about his prospects of returning 
to work. And so, Barclays put a short-term hold on payments, and asked Mr K to contact 
them during that time  so they could see what his situation was then. They also wanted to 
complete an income and expenditure form  which was normal to help understand Mr Ks 
situation.
I can see that Barclays tried to contact Mr K to do this, but without success. They also sent 
to him several arrears letters which showed that Mr K was behind with his payments. When 
Mr K called Barclays in October 2020, he said he had returned to work  and he could then 
afford the repayments. So, Barclays set up an interest free resolve loan which needed three 
qualifying payments of £207.78.  But only two were made, and so the new loan failed to go 
ahead. I can see there were some failed attempts to speak to Mr K at that time.
And then  a Notice of Default letter was sent in February 2021, following which Mr K 
complained. 
I can see why Barclays didnt agree to a PH in April 2020  because it wasnt clear if Mr K 
could return to work in the short term. So, they were entitled to put a short-term hold on 
payments. I can also see they wrote to Mr K after the call to say payments were suspended 
and that a default notice would be sent in September 2020. The balance was then 
£18,966.35. 
It was unfortunate that after April 2020, there wasnt a meaningful discussion between Mr K 
and Barclays  by which I mean a full run down of his employment situation, and the 
completion of an income and expenditure form. Barclays did try to call him but he was 
unavailable or said he didnt have time. 
In all honesty, I think Barclays did a lot to help Mr K here. But - they couldve been clearer 
with Mr K that his request for a PH had been declined in April 2020, and exactly what his 
options were at that time.  They might have agreed to a PH with effect from May 2020  but equally, they needed to be sure that was the right thing to do for Mr K, and that he qualified 
for the scheme. They couldve been more proactive in contacting Mr K between April 2020 
and September 2020 to discuss his needs - the first contact was on 2 September 2020. So  
matters did drift on for a period.
Barclays have recognised this and made an offer to Mr K  an interest free loan for the 
balance of £19,000, payable over 92 months. And once Mr K has made the first three 
payments of £206.93, the default and arrears will be removed from his credit file. Mr K  has 
taken a long time (since May 2022) to respond to this offer. And he has now rejected it  he 
says that interest has been applied. It looks to me that there may have been a small amount 
of interest added in 2020 - as the balance increased by £416. Otherwise, no interest has 
been added since April 2020 to the present date. And in the circumstances of what 
happened, Im not going to ask for any refund here.
It seems to me that Barclays offer is a generous one, but it is for Mr K to decide if he wishes 
to accept it. Barclays have issued a loan agreement which hasnt been signed by Mr K. So, 
in issuing this final decision, I ask Barclays to issue it again  and in line with their normal 
process, give Mr K 30 days to sign and accept it. It is of course up to Mr K if he accepts it, 
and if he doesnt then Barclays will be entitled to return to their normal collection processes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Reissue the offer of an interest free loan for £19,000, payable over 92 months. 
Payments of £206.53 per month. Once three qualifying payments have been made, 
remove the default and arrears from Mr Ks credit file. It is in order to ask Mr K to sign 
this within 30 days. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman