complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in January 2003.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Miss S bought the policy in January 2003. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Miss S says she didnt agree to take out the PPI. She says that had she been given a 
choice, she never would have agreed to take it out. So, Ive thought about what shes said 
alongside the additional information Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Miss Ss credit agreement. This shows that Miss S was 
asked to select whether or not she wanted the PPI. Under the section Protecting your 
Account, I can see Miss S was asked to sign if she wanted the PPI added to her account. 
Looking at the credit agreement, I can see Miss S signed to say she wanted the PPI.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Miss S had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Miss S didnt select this product, 
so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. Overall, I 
think its more likely than not Miss S would have understood the PPI was optional. And I 
dont think she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
DRN-1045747FICL says it didnt recommend that Miss S take out the PPI. Miss S on the other hand says it 
did. So Ive thought about what both parties have said, taking into account the available 
information from the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that FICL assessed Miss Ss circumstances at the time and recommended that Miss S take 
out the PPI. This means FICL didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to 
make sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Miss S chose to take out the 
PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Miss S has told us she would have received at least six months full pay from her employer if 
she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some savings which she could have 
used to help cover her store card repayments.
Having thought about what Miss S has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss S would have received from her employer and 
would have potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI 
also would have paid a benefit if Miss S was ever made redundant and would have enabled 
her to use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had.
So overall, I think Miss S could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman