DRN-2893087
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the excess Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited charged on his 
escape of water claim. Mr A says he was originally told the excess would be £100 but he 
was then charged £500. He is unhappy with the £50 trouble and upset payment from Lloyds 
and would like a £400 refund from his excess. 
All references to Lloyds include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said both sides agreed 
Lloyds made a mistake when it told Mr A over the phone his excess for his claim would be 
£100. But when Mr A called back, he was told the correct excess of £500 and went ahead 
with the claim. So, he felt Lloyds offer of £50 was fair. 
Mr A disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he suffered a financial 
loss due to the mistake Lloyds made and he was distressed when he found out he had to 
pay a higher excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr A feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
I note Mr A has said, after the investigators opinion, that he would like to make a complaint 
about the way his whole claim was handled  not just about the excess he was charged. As 
Ive already mentioned to Mr A, thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint. 
Lloyds have confirmed that when Mr A complained it was about his excess. And this was the 
complaint it answered in its final response. If Mr A would like to complain about the way his 
whole claim was handled, he can speak to Lloyds and let it know why he is unhappy so that 
it can raise a new complaint and investigate his concerns. So, I wont be commenting on that 
any further in this final decision. 
Mr A has said he is unhappy with the £50 offer from Lloyds for the mistake it made. Ive 
listened to the telephone calls Mr A had when he made the claim. Its clear he was given the 
wrong excess in the first call and this was later corrected when Mr A called back and 
received an explanation of why the excess had increased to £500. After listening to these 
calls, Im satisfied the offer from Lloyds recognises the trouble and upset it caused Mr A. 
This offer seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman