DRN-3973744
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, has rejected the claim he made under section 
140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says 
was misrepresented to him by the supplier, causing his ongoing relationship with Shawbrook 
to be unfair on him.
Mr N was represented by a claims management company (the CMC), although he no 
longer is.
What happened
In November 2013, Mr N purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr N financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook that 
was repayable over ten years.
In May 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ns behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that made 
Mr Ns ongoing relationship with Shawbrook unfair on him.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate. 
Shawbrook didnt uphold the claim, so the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC told us that Mr N disagreed and wanted an ombudsman to make a decision but 
gave no reasons for this. The CMC also informed us it was no longer acting on Mr Ns 
behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Shawbrook. 
Section 140 allows the courts to consider whether a relationship between a creditor 
(Shawbrook in this case) and a debtor (Mr N) is unfair on the debtor. In doing so, the courts 
can take into account related agreements, such as the sale of a product (such as a solar 
panel system) which was funded by the credit (in this case a point-of-sale loan). 
The CMC says the system was misrepresented to Mr N, which created an unfair 
relationship. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or 
their agent) to a second party which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby 
causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided. These include the credit agreement 
and predicted system performance document (PSP).
The PSP sets out the expected performance and financial benefits of the system. Im 
satisfied that it formed a central part of the sales process, since it was provided to Mr N at 
the time of sale. It is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ns recollection of the sale, when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Self-funding
The PSP set out the expected benefits of the system as follows:
I think this table is clear in setting out the total income (from feed-in tariff payments and 
electricity bill savings) that the system was expected to provide. 
The credit agreement showed the monthly loan repayment was £113.63. This equates to 
£1,363.56 per year. This is much more than the total income in the first year, which was just 
£778.25. So, it wouldve been clear to Mr N that the system would not pay for itself on a 
monthly or annual basis at the start. In fact, the total annual income would not exceed the 
annual loan repayments until year nine. 
The credit agreement shows the total amount payable for the system if the loan ran to its full 
term would be £13,635.60. The table shows that the accumulative total income from the 
system would not exceed this amount until the end of year 12. 
So, given the information provided in the documents at the time of sale, and that I think it is 
likely that these figures wouldve been discussed, I do not think it is likely that Mr N was told 
the system would be self-funding from the start, on a monthly or annual basis, or within the 
term of the loan. 
Mr N may have been told the system was self-funding over its lifetime or a shorter period 
such as 12 years, because the table shows expected benefits overall that would exceed the 
total amount he would pay for the system. 
The PSP shows the assumptions this was based on, including feed-in tariff and electricity 
unit prices and inflation rates, and how much electricity generated that Mr N would use 
instead of buying it from his electricity supplier. The expected benefits dont appear to have 
been guaranteed by the supplier but were an estimate. I dont think it would be a 
misrepresentation if inflation over the years has not matched the assumptions made or if 
Mr N has not used as much electricity as expected. 
Summary
I dont think the supplier misrepresented the system in the way Mr N has alleged. And Ive 
found no reason to conclude that his relationship with Shawbrook was or is unfair on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman