DRN-3191947
The complaint
Miss F complains Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited (Future Finance) irresponsibly 
lent to her on multiple occasions.  
What happened
Miss F was approved for two loans by Future Finance. The purpose of these loans was to 
support her whilst completing her further educational studies. The two loans are set out 
below:
Loan Date Capital Amount In study 
repaymentOut of study 
repayment
One June 2015 £2,500 £15 £35.89
Two July 2015 £2,500 £15 £35.89
Miss F says at the time of applying for the loans, and subsequently, she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. She says she notified Future Finance of her inability to meet the 
increased out of study repayments. She says she eventually decided to borrow further 
monies in order to settle these loans early. 
Our investigator recommended Miss Fs complaint be upheld. They highlighted that Miss F 
was working as a pre-registration optician whilst studying. She was earning around £12,000 
per year at that point. Our investigator argued that Future Finance had not made reasonable 
attempts to understand Miss Fs outgoings at the time she applied for the loans; which 
included things such as rent. Our investigator felt further proportionate checks wouldve 
shown the loans were likely unaffordable to Miss F.
Our investigator also argued that Future Finance had not completed sufficient checks when 
Miss F had completed her studies to ensure she could meet the increased out of study 
repayments. And had it done so it wouldve seen Miss F was not in a position to meet these 
repayments.
Future Finance disagreed with our investigators assessment. In response to our 
investigators assessment, Future Finance made the following points (amongst others) in 
relation to its overall business model:
Future Finance clarified its business model and its process towards making its 
affordability assessment. It said its processes were designed to be compliant with 
the FCA rules under CONC 5.2A;
It was a private student loan provider and not a short term or payday lender;
Future Finance would not only look at affordability at the time of the lending decision 
in isolation but also consider the future potential earnings and status of the borrower 
once their course was completed; and
When making the affordability assessment it used the borrowers credit history, credit 
score, and other external data.
In relation to Miss Fs specific complaint, Future Finance disagreed with the investigators 
recommendation based on the below summarised points:
The affordability assessment it completed at the time of the loan was based on her 
projected income and projected debt upon graduation. Based on these projections 
the loan was deemed affordable;
Future Finance relies on the exemption to the collection of a customers income and 
expenditure under CONC 5.2A.15(1)(a);
Our investigator hadnt correctly considered the fact that Miss F was using her loan to 
cover wholly, or in part, her living expenses during the time she studied;
Miss F had applied for loan two after she became aware she needed further lending 
to purchase studying equipment. Future Finance advised Miss F that she needed to 
wait for three months before reapplying for a new loan; or alternatively she could 
return the first loan and apply for a new loan for the full amount she required;
It calculated Miss Fs future income by relying on external data such as HESA 
website and the average salary for Miss Fs chosen profession;
Miss F was not due to make full out of study repayments until three months after 
she had graduated;
Our investigator had not considered other income  such as further student loans  
Miss F mayve received when calculating her affordability. If they would have done so 
it would have meant Miss F had more disposable income; thereby showing the loan 
was likely affordable;
Future Finance had emailed Miss F prior to the starting of her increased out of study 
payments to understand if the increase repayments were affordable to her. Future 
Finance say they received no meaningful engagement from her during this period;
Future Finance had attempted to contact Miss F during her in study period to discuss 
the arrears that were occurring on her account; and had not received meaningful 
responses from her. It highlighted promises of payments by Miss F which had not 
been made;
Miss F paid off both loans early in March 2019 and November 2019 respectively.
My provisional findings
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional findings; and asking for them to make any 
further comments they wished for me to consider. Ive not copied my full provisional decision 
here; but in summary I made the following provisional findings.
I set out the key questions which I believed were necessary for me to consider when coming 
to my decision on this complaint. These were:oDid Future Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself Miss F would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss F wouldve been able to 
do so?
oDid Future Finance complete a review of Miss Fs circumstances once the in 
study period had ended? 
If so, did this show Miss F had secured a job in line with the salary 
expectations and repayments were likely affordable/sustainable? 
If not, would those checks have shown Miss F had secured a job in line 
with the forecasted salary and could meet the repayments in a 
sustainable way? 
oDid Future Finance act unreasonably in any other way?
I explained I had considered what Future Finance had said about its operating model. I 
noted that it was not a payday or short-term lender; and instead noted that it offered private 
student loans. I explained the main difference between Future Finance and other lenders is 
that it completes its creditworthiness assessments based on the projected future earnings or 
income of the applicant.
The relevant regulatory framework for this complaint was CONC 5.3.1.G which sets out the 
relevant obligations on Future Finance at the time of Miss Fs application.
Future Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Miss F. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Future Finance lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Fs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties. 
Future Finance was entitled to rely on expected future income for Miss F when making this 
assessment. Provided that this assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what CONC 
required in terms of proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in 
relation to any initial payments. 
In relation to loan one, Future Finance had completed a credit file search on Miss F; and 
verified her income via a payslip. The credit file search showed that Miss F had no major 
debts outside of her existing student loan. The payslip verified her salary as earning 
approximately £12,000 per year. Future Finance then went on to consider her expected 
future income. It says based on the information it had at the time (and using the model 
highlighted above) that Miss F would be earning approximately £1,400 per month.        
Future Finance also calculated that her expected future debt repayment for this loan and her 
existing student loan would be approximately £140 per month.
I agreed that Future Finance had completed proportionate checks on Miss F in relation to 
loan one at the point of application. In relation to her income and predicted future earnings; I 
explained that Future Finance had explained it relied on information from the Higher 
Education Statistic Agency (HESA) and information provided by the higher education 
institute Miss F was attending. This enabled Future Finance to predict Miss F would earn 
approximately £1,400 per month. This is the equivalent of a salary of approximately £17,000 
per year, which when considering what Miss F and Future Finance have said about her 
course seemed reasonable. I explained it may be different if this amount was unrealistically 
high, but a salary of £17,000 was in line with most graduate starting salaries, and therefore seemed reasonable in this instance.
When looking at Miss Fs future outgoings, Future Finance calculated her future debt 
repayments would be approximately £140 per month. Future Finance has said it calculated 
this by taking into consideration Miss Fs existing debt commitments and her future out of 
study loan repayment. It says this number cannot exceed 35% of Miss Fs predicted income 
for the application to go through. I noted that whilst this calculation was obviously lacking in 
terms of all of Miss Fs likely outgoings; it did cover Miss Fs known existing credit 
commitments. And considering again the value of this loan and the level of repayments; I 
was satisfied it was proportionate in this instance. This was mainly because the checks 
which were completed did not highlight that Miss F had a high level of debt. Again, I 
highlighted that this may be different if the credit file showed Miss F was struggling or had a 
history of having struggled to maintain credit in the past.
I also had regard to the fact that this loan was to be used wholly or in part to help Miss F with 
her living expenses whilst she was studying. So Future Finance was entitled to rely on this 
when calculating Miss Fs likely outgoings. 
I was also satisfied Future Finance had completed proportionate checks on loan two at the 
point of the application. This was mainly due to the reasons set out above; because the time 
between the two applications was short; and Miss Fs circumstances had not changed 
significantly in the interim. 
I then went on to consider if Future Finance had made a fair decision to lend loan one and 
two. I was satisfied that Future Finance had done so. This was because the information that 
Future Finance had at the time of the application suggested that Miss F would be able to 
meet her existing commitments and future commitments once she had graduated. It had 
made a reasonable prediction on what her future income would be; and this suggested that 
Miss F would be able to afford the in study and out of study repayments. I was persuaded 
that Miss Fs outgoings during her study period would be aided by the loan Future Finance 
had provided. Namely that it would cover her largest non-credit commitment in her rent. This 
meant Miss Fs only other outstanding commitment that Future Finance was reasonably 
aware of was her existing student loan. Future Finance was entitled to rely on the 
information Miss F had provided as there was seemingly no contradictory information to 
suggest it couldnt. Miss F had shown she was likely to have a sufficient income to meet her 
outgoings; and as such the loan appeared affordable when initially applied for. 
As the bulk of the repayments on the loans were always going to be made once Miss F 
completed her course, I then considered if Future Finance had completed a review of       
Miss Fs circumstances once the in-study period had ended.  I noted that Future Finance 
needed to be satisfied that the predicted income had reached a suitable level (in line with its 
original predictions) to ensure that any repayments remained sustainable to Miss F. And if 
Miss Fs income hadnt reached that level, CONC sets out the requirement to exercise 
appropriate forbearance in these circumstances. 
Future Finance highlighted in months prior to the out of study payments becoming due that it 
emailed its customers reminders. Future Finance explained these reminders let borrowers 
know the payments they will be making will increase. Future Finance says that this contact 
would prompt borrowers to contact Future Finance; if they believe theyre not in a position to 
meet the increased payments. Future Finance argued it had sent such a reminder to Miss F 
on multiple occasions prior to the increase to the out of study repayments.
I noted that whilst Miss F had issues with her payments leading up to the increase in 
payments; Future Finance did contact her on multiple times. These correspondences let 
Miss F know about the state of her account and that her payments would be increasing. It also gave her the option to contact it should she not be in a position to meet the repayments. 
Whilst Miss F did eventually contact Future Finance in March 2017 (more on that below); I 
couldnt see she engaged meaningfully around the time the payments increased to advise 
Future Finance that her salary hadnt increased as had been anticipated at the time the 
loans were taken, or that there were other reasons she could not meet the repayments. 
I concluded that it was reasonable for Future Finance to expect that Miss Fs income would 
increase to the predicted level in the near future. And it seemingly attempted to contact    
Miss F to verify if that was the case. I couldnt see that Miss F did contact Future Finance at 
that point in time (I appreciate she did later on) to let it know she would have difficulty 
meeting the increased costs. And, in these circumstances, I didnt think it reasonable to say 
Future Finance ought to have realised this for itself either. So based on what Id seen; I was 
satisfied Future Finance had done enough to understand Miss Fs circumstances and if she 
was in a position to repay the loan in a sustainable way once the out of study repayments 
began.
As noted above Miss F had struggled with her repayments throughout the term of the loan. 
As such I considered whether Future Finance had acted unfairly in any other way during its 
lending relationship with Miss F. I set out a summarised timeline of events which highlighted 
the contact between Miss F and Future Finance. I noted that Miss F fell behind in her 
payments early on, but cleared her arrears by January 2016. 
I went on to explain that Miss F began building arrears again and by August 2016          
Future Finance had begun to start the process of defaulting her. I noted there was no 
evidence the default was applied; and Miss F again cleared her arrears. This pattern began 
again until February 2017 when Miss F explained she could not afford to make repayments, 
and no payment was made until March 2017. There was some engagement around income 
and expenditure forms, but no payment was received until January 2018. This led to a CCJ 
being issued in February 2019. Miss F settled loan one in March 2019 and loan two was 
settled in November 2019.
Having considered this timeline (and the rest of the file) I was satisfied Future Finance 
shouldve done more to help Miss F. I explained Future Finance had an obligation to 
proactively look for signs that consumers may be struggling to meet the demands  even if a 
consumer may not have brought this to its attention.
I noted that Future Finance would have seen that Miss F was having difficulty with the 
account throughout its lifetime. In particular I noted that Future Finance began default 
proceedings in August 2016 (albeit Miss F paid off the balance). Whilst it mayve been 
reasonable for Future Finance to rely on the expected increase salary for Miss F at this 
stage; I was satisfied this should only have lasted for a relatively short period of time 
(approximately two to three months). The account showed Miss F made no meaningful 
payment towards her loans from September 2016 until February 2017.
When Miss F did engage with Future Finance in February 2017 it was clear she was not in a 
position to repay the outstanding payments; and Future Finance oughtve been more 
proactive in helping Miss F at that point, or taken the decision to begin corrective action as 
Miss Fs sustained arrears and inability to pay suggested a longer-term issue rather than 
temporary difficulties making her payments.
I explained while commencing corrective action and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the debt theyre having difficulty with. As Future Finance didnt do 
this, and I was satisfied it was clear Miss F was in financial difficulties with no likely change 
in circumstances, and therefore Future Finance had acted unfairly. As a result of this Miss F had lost out financially by having to pay additional interest and charges
In order to put things right I required Future Finance to complete the below redress:
In relation to loan one  refund the interest and charges Miss F paid from 1 March 
2017 until the loan was settled in March 2019; and
In relation to loan two  refund the interest and charges Miss F paid from 1 March 
2017 until the loan was settled in November 2019*.
Miss F responded to the provisional decision, agreeing overall to the findings (she offered to 
provide further email correspondence but noted the content was what was already known). 
She queried how information on her credit file would be recorded following the redress which 
was suggested.
 Future Finance responded and also agreed to the overall findings. It made some further 
points in relation to its communication with Miss F. It stated:
oIt had begun default notices to Miss F in December 2016 and January 2017 in 
relation to both loans; 
oIt had made regular proactive efforts to engage with Miss F throughout the loans 
asking her to engage with it; and setting out what it could do to help;
oIt issued notice of sums in arrears in October 2016 for both loans;
oIt sign posted Miss F to free debt advice throughout its communications;
oIt did not receive meaningful engagement from Miss F and as such Future Finance 
says it was unsighted as to the best outcome for Miss F throughout this period, and 
it was trying to give her the benefit of the doubt. 
oIt agreed that with hindsight in light of Miss Fs lack of engagement it couldve been 
more decisive in providing corrective action.
oIt did not agree any changes to Miss Fs credit file were required as it maintain an 
accurate reflection of her relationship with her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed to the outcome reached in my provisional decision I see no 
reason to depart from it.
Im therefore satisfied that Future Finance completed proportionate checks at the point loan 
one and loan two were approved. Im also satisfied it acted reasonably to understand if    
Miss Fs circumstances had changed to the required level once the out of study repayments 
began.
However; Im satisfied Future Finance did not act fairly throughout the term of the loan. In 
particular it shouldve been more proactive in taking corrective action sooner. This shouldve 
been at the latest by 1 March 2017. By this point it was clear Miss F was not in a position to 
meet the repayments sustainably. As Future Finance did not do this, Miss F had lost out by having to pay additional interest and charges.
I note Future Finances comments in response to the provisional decision. I agree that      
Miss F did not engage as meaningfully as she couldve throughout (this is why Ive not 
awarded Miss F 8% interest in relation to her redress).  But as Future Finance accepts, this 
lack of meaningful engagement shouldve prompted it to take proactive steps sooner, in 
order to reduce the financial loss Miss F suffered.
In relation to Miss Fs credit file; Ive considered the information both parties have provided. 
Im satisfied that Future Finance is only able to correct Miss Fs credit file in relation to the 
entries it recorded. These entries should be a reflection of the fact that forbearance 
measures shouldve been offered sooner to her.  Future Finance isnt able to amend any 
information that has been recorded by a third party so Miss F would need to contact this 
party directly should she be unhappy with its actions.
Putting things right
As Miss F has lost out financially as a result of Future Finances actions, it needs to put 
things right. In order to do this, I require Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited to do the 
following:
In relation to loan one  refund the interest and charges Miss F paid from 1 March 
2017 until the loan was settled in March 2019*;
In relation to loan two  refund the interest and charges Miss F paid from 1 March 
2017 until the loan was settled in November 2019* and
Amend Miss Fs credit file to reflect the above actions. These corrections relate only 
to the entries Future Finance have been responsible for.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Future Finance to take off tax from this interest. Future 
Finance must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Future Finance Loan 
Corporation Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman