DRN-3281588
The complaint
Mr W complains Bath Investment & Building Society (Bath) unfairly declined his mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr W says he approached Bath in early June 2021 to discuss porting his existing mortgage 
to a new property he was looking to purchase closer to his family. Mr W says he completed a 
pre application interview and was told the application looked fine, subject to valuation. Mr W 
says he placed his house on the market and it quickly sold, so he instructed his solicitor to 
deal with its sale and the purchase of the new property he was buying from his mothers 
partner. Mr W says some weeks later Bath enquired about his employment position, given 
he was moving around 100 miles away from his employers base. Mr W says he explained 
he is and would continue, to work from home and his employers were in the process of 
making this a permanent arrangement. 
Mr W says Baths underwriters asked his employers HR department to provide confirmation 
of his work from home status and even though they confirmed he was currently working from 
home, this wasnt sufficient for the underwriters and Bath wouldnt accept confirmation of this 
from his line manager. Mr W says as a result of this, Bath declined his mortgage application 
and as he was committed to the sale of his existing property, he had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of around £4,000 in addition to the £125 application administration 
fee.
Mr W wants Bath to refund the application fee and the ERC.
Bath says its underwriters declined the mortgage due to the fact they deemed the commute 
to work too far and his employers HR department were unable to confirm his current work 
from home status would be a permanent arrangement. Bath says Mr W was made aware the 
£125 application fee was non-refundable and the ERC was charged in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Baths response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt Bath hadnt been unreasonable when it asked for formal confirmation of Mr Ws working 
from home status, given the distance of his proposed move, before approving the mortgage. 
She didnt support Mr Ws view that his line manager could have provided the reassurance 
Bath needed about his work from home status, as he wasnt authorised to do so.
The investigator says the pre application interview wasnt an agreement to lend as the 
application still required a full credit assessment by Baths underwriters. The investigator 
says Bath had made clear the application fee was non-refundable and it was entitled to 
charge the ERC under the terms and conditions of the mortgage agreement. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr W to have been told his rent a room 
mortgage application, had been declined by Bath because he couldnt get the confirmation it 
needed that his work from home status would be permanent.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Bath acted unreasonably when it declined Mr 
Ws mortgage application.
Mr Ws complaint centres around Baths decision to decline his application to port his 
existing mortgage to a new property he was moving to nearer his family, some 100 miles 
away from his current employment base. Mr W says he informed Bath early on in the 
process of his move and despite that, later on it raised questions about the permanency of 
his work from home status. Mr W says Bath insisted they needed his employers HR 
department to confirm his working from home would be a permanent arrangement and 
wouldnt accept this confirmation from his line manager. Mr W says he was left with no 
option but to complete the sale of his home, meaning he was charged an ERC of around 
£4,000, in addition to the £125 application fee by Bath, which he felt was unfair.
The first thing to say here, although Mr W may not agree, is the pre application interview 
wasnt a formal approval of the mortgage application, that would be provided once Baths 
underwriters carried out a full credit assessment. Here, as part of that assessment Bath 
wanted reassurance Mr Ws recent work from home status, following the Covid pandemic, 
was to be made permanent. I can understand that information would be important to a lender 
when considering an application where the applicant was moving a considerable distance 
from his existing employment base. I say this because of the cost implications it may have, 
should the applicant be asked to return to the existing workplace in the future. So with that in 
mind, I cant say it was unreasonable for Bath to seek formal  confirmation that Mr Ws 
current temporary home working arrangement, would be made permanent. 
Mr W says his HR department provided as much information as it could, but it was his line 
manager who would be better placed to provide the reassurance Bath needed. While I can 
understand the point Mr W makes here, Im not persuaded by his argument. I say this as the 
letters Mr Ws HR department have provided, do not confirm his work from home status is of 
a permanent nature, only he was currently working from home. With that in mind I am 
satisfied that didnt meet Baths underwriting requirements and its not for me to tell them it 
must. 
I appreciate Mr W feels his line manager was in a better place to provide the re-assurance 
over this matter, but on balance Im not persuaded by this. I say this as I am satisfied it 
would be reasonable of Bath to ask for the department who are ultimately responsible for 
employees working contracts to provide that confirmation, rather than from an employed line 
manager. 
As far as the ERC charge is concerned, this was detailed in the terms and conditions of the 
original mortgage agreement and was of course why Mr W was looking to port his mortgage 
product to a new property, so I cant say he wasnt aware it was due. While I have some 
sympathy with Mr Ws situation, he was informed of the requirement by the underwriters 
regarding his employment status some time before he completed the sale of his home, and I cant hold Bath responsible for him going ahead with that. I have also seen that the 
mortgage application fee of £125 charged was detailed in the mortgage illustration in June 
2021 and it confirms the fee is not refundable.  
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Bath here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman