DRN-3388382
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
store card in 1998. Mrs W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI. 
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.   
What happened
Mrs W took out the store card and PPI policy in a store in July 1998. She says that she was 
pressured into taking out the policy and was told she had to take out the PPI in order to get 
the store card.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mrs Ws store card balance in the event 
that she was unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
At the time, the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. They felt that application form Mrs W signed 
made it clear that she had a choice in taking out the policy, and that she could have found 
the policy useful based on her circumstances. 
Mrs W disagreed, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Weve 
set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice in taking out the PPI policy. Mrs W 
says she was told she had to take out the PPI if she wanted the store card. I cant be sure of 
exactly what was said during the sale, so I have to base my assessment on the evidence 
available to consider what I think is more likely in the circumstances.
It was not a condition of the store card that PPI be taken out. In order for me to agree with 
Mrs W, Id have to be convinced its more likely that the store employee deliberately and 
purposefully misled Mrs W into thinking it was a requirement of the store card. Having looked 
at the store card application form, I can see there was a separate section for PPI that had a 
brief description of the cover and the option to tick a box that said yes, I would like to protect 
my account, and I can see Mrs W ticked the box to confirm she wanted the cover. Looking 
at this, I think it was equally clear Mrs W could have left the box blank if she didnt want the 
cover, which I can see she did with another product called card protection plan. 
I cant know exactly what was said when Mrs W took out the store card. But considering that 
I think the application form made it clear she had the option to take or decline the PPI, and 
she declined other products, I think its more likely in the circumstances that she chose to 
take out the policy, knowing she didnt have to. 
AXA has said it did not provide advice or a recommendation for the PPI during the sale, and 
looking at the evidence available Im satisfied it didnt provide Mrs W with a personal 
recommendation for the policy. Because of this, it didnt have to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs W, but it did have to give her enough information so she could make sure it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W  for example she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to 
what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information was given. It looks like the 
policy was affordable  and it seems like it would have been useful for Mrs W if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs W would have declined the cover had AXA 
given clearer information about the policy. 
Overall, I think its more likely AXA gave Mrs W a fair choice in taking the policy, that the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the 
policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time.   
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman