DRN-1946596
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy when she took out a store card.
What happened
Mrs D took out a store card in October 2003 by completing a leaflet in store. At the same 
time she was sold a PPI policy to cover her card repayments if she couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs D complaint should be upheld because Mrs D wasnt working at 
the time the policy was sold and therefore wouldnt be able to claim on the primary benefits 
of the policy and it shouldnt have been sold to her. 
AXA disagreed as it thought the information provided about Mrs Ds employment was 
inconsistent.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
AXA were under a duty to provide Mrs D with information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way so she could make an informed choice about whether or not she wanted to 
take PPI.
I dont think AXA did give Mrs D clear enough information about whether she would be 
eligible for cover under the policy. I think this because to be eligible for cover under the 
policy Mrs D had to be in permanent paid employment for a minimum of 16 hours a week.
Mrs D has told us that she was a student starting in September 2003 and wasnt working at 
the time the policy was sold to her the following month. AXA have given me a copy of the 
credit agreement and there is no information on this about her employment situation if any. 
There is some information which I think suggests Mrs D was employed for periods of time 
(including the year 2003) in the type of work commonly undertaken by students. But I cant 
tell from the information whether this was at the point of sale of the policy, or if it was, 
whether it was for more than 16 hours a week. 
So, based on the limited information I have available I think it is likely Mrs D wasnt in 
permanent paid employment for 16 hours a week and she wouldnt have met the eligibility 
criteria to benefit from the policy. And I dont think Mrs D wouldve agreed to take a policy 
where she would be paying for something that she couldnt benefit from.
I cant see anywhere on the credit agreement that explains the eligibility criteria and I dont 
think expecting Mrs D to read the full policy document to find out if she is eligible for the 
policy is providing information in a clear or fair way. 
So I dont think AXA did give clear enough information to Mrs D on the eligibility 
requirements of the policy. I think if Mrs D had understood she wasnt eligible for the policy 
she wouldnt have agreed to take it.
As a consequence I think Mrs D has lost out as a result of AXAs failings in this case.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
AXA should find out how much Mrs D would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs D 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs D 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 15% a year 
until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
AXA should tell Mrs D what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against AXA France IARD and 
direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman