DRN-3613605
The complaint
A company Ill call H complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) blocked and closed its 
accounts, without explaining why, forcing H to re-finance a large secured loan it had with 
Cynergy.
H is represented by one of its directors, Mr T.
What happened
On 18 August 2020, Cynergy blocked Hs account. When Mr T called his relationship 
manager (RM) to find out what was happening, he was told the block was caused by a 
technical issue. However, the account remained restricted and Cynergy then wrote to H on 3 
September 2020, giving it 15 days notice of its intention to close its current account, and 90 
days notice of its intention to close Hs loan account. Closure of the loan account meant H 
had to arrange new finance in the sum of £5m.
Cynergy also took similar actions in respect of 2 other limited company accounts in Mr Ts 
name, as well as his personal account. But this decision is solely concerned with Hs 
account, and I will address the other complaints separately.
H complained, but Cynergy maintained its position, so H sought to refinance the loan. It 
couldnt do so within the 90-day deadline, but Cynergy agreed to extend the deadline and 
Hs Cynergy statements show the loan was finally repaid on 2 March 2021.
Cynergy issued its final response to Hs complaint on 8 October 2020. It said it had acted in 
line with its terms of business, and said H could bring its complaint to our service if it 
remained unhappy. 
Mr T didnt accept Cynergys response, so he brought Hs complaint to our service. He said 
Cynergy had lied to him about the technical issue, and wanted to know the real reason his 
account had been blocked and closed. And he said he understood Cynergy could close his 
accounts, but didnt feel it was entitled to block the accounts beforehand. He said he 
incurred substantial costs in agreeing the refinance, and he was unhappy that Cynergy had 
withdrawn the loan so soon after it had been agreed (in March of 2020).
Our investigator looked at Hs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said Cynergy had 
acted in line with its terms of business when it closed Hs account, and that it wasnt obliged 
to share more detail about its reasoning. She said Cynergy was entitled to call in the loan, 
and noted that Hs new loan attracted a lower rate of interest, so she felt H hadnt suffered a 
loss and was actually left in a better position financially.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings and made several representations in response. 
He said Cynergy had lied to him about the reasons for the block, and that it breached FCA 
regulations by not writing to H until 17 days after the block. He said Hs account conduct 
hadnt changed substantially throughout Hs 30-year relationship with Cynergy, so he didnt 
accept Cynergy had acted fairly, particularly given it had renewed Hs £5m loan agreement 
less than 5 months earlier. 
He said Cynergys actions put H in financial jeopardy and set out the details of Hs costs of 
refinancing, which outweighed any benefit it had gained via the reduced interest rate. He 
asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr T and Cynergy have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. And because of the nature of those obligations, 
banks often dont disclose the reasons for their decisions to their customers. However, our 
service has obtained information and evidence relating to Cynergys rationale, so while I 
cant disclose the reasons behind Cynergys actions, I can assure Mr T that I have reviewed 
all of the germane evidence. 
With that in mind, in order to make an award in favour of H, I would need to be satisfied that 
Cynergy acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the 
evidence it relied on in reaching its decision, Im satisfied Cynergy acted in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it blocked Hs account. And that it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Cynergy and 
H. Because Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block Hs account, I wont ask it to 
compensate H for doing so, given it did nothing wrong. 
Mr T also says that his RM originally told him the account was blocked due to a technical 
issue, and that he later found out that that was not the case. And that Cynergy breached 
FCA regulations by delaying for 17 days before writing to H.
But, as our investigator has explained, banking decisions are not always made by a single 
department and in circumstances like these, the rationale isnt always communicated to all 
members of staff. So, Mr Ts RM may not have known why the account was blocked. And in 
any event, Im satisfied Cynergy wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block. So, Mr 
Ts RM couldnt have given him any more information, regardless of whether or not he knew 
the true reason.
As to the timings, I understand Mr Ts frustrations, but Im not persuaded Cynergy breached 
any regulations by delaying its written communications. Im satisfied it was undertaking an 
investigation during the early stages of the review, and Im not aware of any regulations that 
require it to contact H within a certain timeframe in these circumstances. And in any event, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Cynergy was obliged to disclose the 
full extent of the position to H.Cynergys obligations in this regard are ongoing, so it can review an account at any time, so, 
while I fully understand Mr Ts frustrations that this review came within 6 months of the new 
loan being incepted, that doesnt mean Cynergy wasnt able to carry out the review and 
Cynergys obligations are overriding. And its enquiries at the time of the loan renewal would 
have focussed on repayment and affordability of the loan. 
So, while the timing is certainly unfortunate, Im not persuaded Cynergy was obliged to carry 
out the review before agreeing the loan (the two incidents are separate matters) and Im not 
persuaded it was prohibited from carrying out the review because it had recently agreed the 
loan.
Mr T also said he was unhappy that Cynergy blocked Hs account, pending closure. But a 
banks ability to close an account isnt mutually exclusive from its ability to block an account. 
So, while I recognise the block will have caused H difficulty, I cant say Cynergy acted 
unfairly in blocking the account, for the reasons Ive set out above.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Cynergy gave H 15 days notice to close its account, and 90 days notice to close its loan 
account, in a letter dated 3 September 2020. It explained Hs account no longer fell within 
Cynergys criteria and confirmed the account would be blocked until it was closed. Cynergy 
referred our service to its terms of business which, at section 18.5 sets out the 
circumstances in which it can close Hs account with less than 2 months notice. The terms 
and conditions though dont oblige Cynergy to disclose the reasons for its decision to H, and 
I can see Cynergy didnt want to tell H why it closed the account.
With that being the case, Ive looked at the evidence Cynergy provided our service to 
determine whether or not it acted fairly when it closed Hs account. This includes its reasons 
for the review and closure and the evidence it reviewed. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Hs account without 
giving 2 months notice. And that it doesnt have to explain the reasons for its decision to H.
In light of the review Ive mentioned above, the terms of the loan agreement enabled 
Cynergy to call in the loan immediately, and without notice. And so, Im satisfied Cynergy 
was entitled to call in the loan in the manner it did, for the same reasons Im satisfied it was 
entitled to block and close Hs accounts. 
Further, it was a term of the loan agreement that H maintained a current account with 
Cynergy until the loan had been repaid. So, H was in breach of the agreement as a result of 
the current account being withdrawn. And while that wasnt Hs decision, because Im 
satisfied Cynergy was entitled to close the account, the fact remains that H didnt meet the 
criteria of the loan. Which further supports Cynergys entitlement to cancel Hs loan.
With regard to the notice period given, when Cynergy called in the loan, it gave H 90 days to 
arrange alternative finance. But it extended that period twice at Hs request, eventually up to 
the end of February (from the initial notice on 3 September 2020). So, although I have no 
doubt it would have been difficult for H to arrange finance at short notice, Im satisfied H 
acted reasonably in that it gave more notice than it was obliged to do, and because it 
extended that notice twice on request, which enabled H to complete the re-finance.
Refinancing costsOur investigator suggested that H was better off as a result of the re-financing because it 
agreed a lower rate of interest on the new loan, which would have saved a significant 
amount of money over the term of the loan. But in response, Mr T set out the extent of the 
costs incurred in organising the re-finance. Those costs included valuation fees and legal 
fees among other costs. And Mr T estimated he incurred over £90,000 of additional costs 
against an interest saving of approximately £60,000.
And I accept that H was not in a better position financially because of the new loan, despite 
the interest saving. However, for all of the reasons Ive set out above, I wont ask Cynergy to 
reimburse Hs costs of re-financing. Cynergy was entitled to take the actions it did, so the 
costs H incurred were not as a result of a mistake on Cynergys part. And I havent seen any 
other basis on which I can reasonably ask Cynergy to compensate H, given Im not 
persuaded it made an error.
I have no doubt that this situation caused Mr T and H significant disruption. But because 
Cynergy was entitled to take the actions it did, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell it to 
compensate H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman