DRN-2431291
The complaint
Mrs P and the estate of Mr P complain that Bank of Scotland PLC trading at the time as 
Leeds Permanent Building Society then Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance policy alongside their mortgage in November 1991.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in November 1991. They also bought a PPI policy in Mr 
Ps name only.
This policy covered Mr P for accident, sickness and unemployment. It would have cost 
around £30.00 per month. On a successful claim it would have paid out a monthly benefit 
of £500 for a period of up to 12 months per successful claim.
In her complaint to this service, Mrs P questioned whether this policy would have covered 
Mr P given his medical conditions.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020. In it I explained why I was intending to 
reach a different conclusion to our adjudicator and uphold this complaint. An extract of my 
provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision.
Halifax cant provide any of the paperwork from the time which is understandable and not unusual as 
the sale happened so long ago. Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is whats most likely to have happened taking into account the evidence 
we have, what the parties have told us and also thinking about what we know about these types of 
sales at that time.
Halifax isnt sure about where this policy was sold. Mrs P has told us that the sale happened in a 
meeting and the PPI was just included. Halifax has agreed to look at this sale as if it were an 
advised sale in branch. I think thats fair as it put more responsibility on Halifax as to how the policy 
was sold and meant that Halifax had to take reasonable steps to make sure that the PPI was 
suitable for Mr P. It also had to give enough clear information so that Mr and Mrs P could make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the cover.
Mrs P has told us that Mr P suffered with two pre-existing medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything which persuades me that Halifax checked to see that the policy was suitable or drew their 
attention to the exclusions in the policy relating to medical conditions. I also havent seen enough to 
say that enough clear information was given to Mr and Mrs P about the policys exclusions about 
medical conditions.
I think not being advised about whether the cover was suitable, and the lack of information about 
the policy terms in relation to pre-existing medical conditions, would have mattered to Mr and Mrs 
P, when making the decision to take out the PPI.
The policy stated: that any benefit for a Disability would be excluded if during the twelve months 
immediately after the policy begins [the disability was] caused by any physical or mental defect or 
infirmity for which you have medical treatment or advice during the twelve months immediately 
before the date the Policy begins.
Mrs P has explained that Mr P had a childhood condition for which he was on medication. She told 
us he later developed further medical complications in the mid 1980s for which he also had to take 
medication. So, I dont think Mr P would have been able to claim for his pre-existing medical 
conditions. I think its likely he would have had ongoing medical treatment for them in the twelve 
months immediately before this policy started.
In my view and as things stand, I intend to uphold this complaint as I dont think the policy was 
suitable for Mr P. It wouldnt have covered him for his pre-existing medical conditions.
I also dont think they were given clear enough information about the policys exclusions at the time. 
If they had been given clearer information, I dont think theyd have wanted to take out the PPI. It 
seems to me as though the policy excluded the things Mr P would most likely have thought hed 
need to make a claim for.
If Mr and Mrs P would have known they would be unable to claim for Mr Ps pre-existing 
medical conditions, I dont think they would have taken it out as they would likely have thought 
the policy was poor value for money.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they might want 
me to consider before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Both parties confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. Neither party wanted to add 
anything more to what Id said in my provisional decision for me to consider. So I see no 
reason to depart from my findings set out in my provisional decision and I uphold this 
complaint.
 
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mrs P and the estate of Mr P in the position they would be in now if Mr 
P hadnt taken out PPI. Halifax should:
Pay Mrs P and the estate of Mr P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% before April 1993 and then 8% 
a year.
If Mrs P and Mr P made successful claims under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for them from the amount it owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mrs P and the estate of Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should put things right as set out in the putting things right section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
  
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman