DRN-1756972
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Citifinancial Europe Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a loan.
What happened
In February 2004, Citifinancial lent Mrs B money. Mrs B borrowed £2,000. At the same time, 
Mrs B bought two insurance policies: a PPI policy that cost £331.89, and a separate life 
insurance policy that cost £103. This additional cost was added to Mrs Bs loan. So in total 
Mrs B borrowed £2,509.89  and she agreed to repay this amount over a term of 36 months.
The PPI was designed to help make the repayments to the loan if Mrs B was off work sick 
during the life of the policy. It would also have repaid the loan if shed died.
Mrs B thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In particular, our 
adjudicator didnt think Citifinancial explained what the policy would cost clearly enough.
Citifinancial disagree. It thinks Mrs B could easily have worked this out herself.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Citifinancial recommended Mrs B buy this policy. This means it had to make sure it was right 
for her. And it also had to give her the information she needed to work out for herself 
whether she wanted to buy the policy.
Im concerned that the information Citifinancial gave Mrs B about the cost of the policy 
wasnt clear enough. Although the documents Ive seen suggest Mrs B was told the extra 
that was added to the loan to pay for the insurance (£331.89), nothing Ive seen shows that 
Citifinancial told Mrs B the amount of interest she needed to pay on that premium  or the 
total cost of the policy if the loan ran to term. It also doesnt appear Citifinancial explained 
what the policy would have cost on a monthly basis.
Ive therefore considered whether this would have affected Mrs Bs decision to buy the PPI.  
Given how much the PPI cost compared to the amount Mrs B borrowed, I think Mrs B would 
have needed to pay a further £266.01 in interest on the PPI premium had the loan ran to 
term. This is a significant amount compared to the premium. I think this would have mattered 
to Mrs B when she chose whether to buy the policy.
If Citifinancial had given Mrs B clearer information about the policy, I dont think shed have 
agreed to it. And so I think Mrs B lost out because of what Citifinancial did wrong. 
Ive thought about what Citifinancial has said. It thinks the amount of interest was easily 
calculable based on the information that was included on the application form and loan 
agreement. But I think its unlikely Mrs B would have done this  and as Ive explained, I 
think Citifinancial was responsible for giving Mrs B clear information about the policy. So this 
doesnt change my conclusion.
Putting things right
Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been. She 
paid more than she shouldve each month and it cost her more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mrs B need to get back the extra shes paid.
So, Citifinancial should:
Work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs B paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citifinancial can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Citifinancial to take off tax from this interest. Citifinancial 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold this complaint. Citifinancial Europe Limited should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman