DRN-4267004
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
Mrs T is represented in this complaint but for ease Ill mainly refer to Mrs T. 
Mrs T says that she saw a link on a local social media page to an article from a local 
newspaper about a police officer who got involved in cryptocurrency trading and made big 
profits monthly. Mrs T has explained that she was going through divorce proceedings and 
was looking for a second income to support herself. She completed an enquiry form for a 
different company and then started to receive calls from traders at different companies. One 
particular company, which Ill refer to in this decision as L, stood out to Mrs T. A 
representative of L told Mrs T that she could set up an account on her behalf and help her to 
trade. Mrs T didnt know at the time, but she was dealing with scammers. 
Mrs T initially made a card payment from another account of $250 on 30 March 2022. She 
was then allowed to make a withdrawal of £70 to demonstrate that funds could be withdrawn 
when required. After this, Mrs T was manipulated to increase the payments she made to 
reach different levels that brought better deals on the trades that were made on her behalf. 
All payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange and then on to the scammer. The 
scammer discussed each new opportunity in phone calls and Mrs T was able to see how her 
investment was doing on a portal. Mrs T was told she was investing in some well-known 
companies.  
Below is a table of the payments Mrs T made to her cryptocurrency account. 
Date Amount
30/03/22 £1
30/03/22 £1
06/04/22 £70 credit
11/04/22 £1,000
11/04/22 £2,000
11/04/22 £800
11/04/22 £100
11/04/22 £1
11/04/22 £100
12/04/22 £3,800
14/04/22 £150
14/04/22 £8,100
14/04/22 £100
20/04/22 £5,000
20/04/22 £4,500
20/04/22 £500
21/04/22 £4,300
21/04/22 £25
21/04/22 £750
21/04/22 £2,000
25/04/22 £25
25/04/22 £8,500
26/04/22 £70 credit
TOTAL £41,683 (first £70 credit 
not deducted as it 
relates to the payment 
from another bank)
Mrs T contacted Monzo to report the scam on 28 April 2022. Monzo said that it wasnt 
responsible for Mrs Ts loss. This was because Mrs T transferred funds from her Monzo 
account to an account in her own name with a cryptocurrency exchange and then on to the 
scammer. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
noted that the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
Code) doesnt apply but that Monzo hadnt identified a pattern of unusual spending. By the 
time Mrs T made the payment request for £3,800 on 12 April 2022 this pattern had emerged 
and Monzo should have intervened. Had it done so, the scam would have been uncovered 
and Mrs Ts future loss prevented. But Mrs T hadnt completed enough checks and should 
share responsibility for her loss. The investigator also said that the service received by Mrs T 
was reasonable. 
Mrs T thought the liability split was harsh and asked that a different ratio to be considered. 
Her representative referred to the fact she was in vulnerable circumstances at the time of the 
scam and was investing to ensure she could retain her home after her divorce. Mrs Ts 
representative also pointed out that Monzo should have been aware of the prevalence of this 
sort of cryptocurrency investment scam and should have done more to prevent the loss.
Monzo didnt agree with the investigators findings either. In summary, it said:
- Whilst the payments are larger than previous payments, they are still within Mrs Ts 
spending limit.
- The cryptocurrency exchange funds were sent to doesnt allow deposits to be made 
unless the name of the sender matches the name on the account meaning Monzo 
could be certain funds were going to an account in Mrs Ts control. 
- Monzo accepted that transferring funds from another account to a Monzo account 
and on to a cryptocurrency wallet is common in cryptocurrency scams. But Monzo 
also highlighted other times when Mrs T moved funds to her Monzo account and then 
on to another account in her name. 
- Monzo has sophisticated transaction monitoring systems in place.The complaint was passed to me to consider. I reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator so issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2023. In the What Ive provisionally 
decided  and why section of my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case for a number of reasons including the fact that the 
payment from Mrs Ts cryptocurrency account to the scammer wasnt a faster payment 
between UK GBP accounts. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs T when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monzo should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mrs T made were unusual or uncharacteristic.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ts bank statements from August 2021. These show low value 
transactions of up to £750 to a third party who was an established payee and transfers of up 
to £1,200 to Mrs Ts own account (not cryptocurrency).
I dont consider the first payment requests were so unusual and out of character that Monzo 
ought to have had any concerns. And theres a balance that must be struck  banks have 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction as this would cause huge disruption to legitimate payments. So I dont think 
Monzo needed to do anything when Mrs T made the early payments. 
I think the position changed on 12 April 2022 when Mrs T made the £3,800 transfer though. 
Mrs T had never made multiple transfers to third parties on the same day. The previous day 
shed transferred just over £4,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange and was making a further 
request to transfer £3,800. This meant Mrs T was asking to transfer a total of £7,800 to a 
cryptocurrency exchange across two days. This was out of character in terms of amount and 
recipient and there was a pattern of payments emerging that were consistent with 
cryptocurrency scams of this nature. In the circumstances, I consider Monzo ought 
reasonably to have intervened when the payment request was made. 
Im not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mrs Ts own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within her control should have satisfied Monzo 
that she wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, banks had, or ought to 
have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a 
customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. 
Monzo has provided examples of credits to Mrs Ts Monzo accounts from other banks 
followed by payments out. But I think the point here is that Mrs T was transferring funds to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. And I dont think its fair to say that because the payment requests 
were within Monzos daily limits they werent unusual.  
Ive thought about what would have happened if Monzo had intervened and asked 
proportionate questions when Mrs T made the £3,800 payment request. I see no reason why 
Mrs T wouldnt have told the truth. I think Monzo should have asked Mrs T questions around 
how she found out about the investment, what she understood about the investment and the 
return, why she was paying a cryptocurrency exchange and what she understood about 
regulation. And I think Monzo should have warned Mrs T about the risks involved in trading 
in cryptocurrency and the prevalence of scams in this area.
If Monzo had done so I think its more likely than not Mrs Ts loss would have been avoided. 
Mrs T was cold called by L (after expressing an interest in a different company), didnt have 
a good understanding of why she needed to buy and send cryptocurrency and L was never 
registered with the FCA. Mrs T was also told trades would be low risk so she wouldnt lose 
her money. Monzo, as an expert would have known that this type of trading involves risk. 
Should Mrs T bear some responsibility for her loss?
Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs T should share responsibility for her loss. On 
balance, I dont think she should. I say this because:
-Mrs T was an inexperienced investor and didnt know what kind of checks she 
needed to complete to protect herself from cruel scammers. She completed the 
checks she thought were appropriate by looking at Ls website which appeared 
genuine and professional, and checking reviews. 
-Mrs T was also going through a difficult time and was perhaps more easily 
manipulated because of this. 
-Mrs T says she went through a verification process and had to provide documents, 
which made L seem legitimate. Ive seen an email in which she was asked to send 
such documents. Mrs T has also explained that L provided her with a security code to 
give when she received calls from them to ensure L was speaking to the right person. 
-Mrs T has provided evidence to show she had to complete a trading disclaimer form. 
The email says that once the form has been signed, she would receive a signed 
copy. I consider documentation like this made L seem like a legitimate company.  
-Mrs T started by making small payments. After making an initial payment from another account Mrs T was able to withdraw £70. She has been clear that this wasnt 
profit, but the scammer showing her that funds could be withdrawn easily. Mrs T was 
required to complete an official looking withdrawal form which would have given her 
reassurance that she was investing in a genuine scheme. I appreciate allowing a 
small withdrawal to be made is a cruel trick played by scammers to entice a victim to 
part with further funds, but Mrs T wasnt aware of this. 
-Mrs T was able to log into a sophisticated online portal. The portal showed deposits, 
withdrawal requests, transaction history and how the investment was performing. The 
portal looked legitimate and made Mrs T think she was dealing with a genuine 
company. 
-Over the course of the almost two months Mrs T made payments the scammer built a 
rapport with her which gave Mrs T confidence to continue to make payments. Mrs T 
has explained that she felt she developed a business relationship with the advisors 
from L. She has provided evidence which shows she had regular telephone 
conversations with traders who sounded professional and knowledgeable. She also 
received messages with links to details about the investment opportunity being 
discussed. 
-An FCA warning about L wasnt issued until May 2022, after Mrs T had made 
payments. Negative reviews about L only started to appear on a well-known review 
site in April 2022. By this time Mrs T had been dealing with L for some time, been 
able to withdraw a small amount and had built a relationship of trust. 
Mrs Ts representative has referred to her being vulnerable. I havent seen any evidence that 
Monzo was made aware of the difficulties Mrs T was experiencing before the scam took 
place though, so Monzo had no reason to give her any additional support. But I think the 
position Mrs T was in should be taken into account in deciding a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case.
Did Monzo do what it could to recover Mrs Ts funds?
In this case Mrs Ts funds went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and were rapidly 
moved out of this account. In the circumstances, I dont consider there was any prospect of 
Monzo recovering Mrs Ts funds. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ive also considered whether Monzo should pay Mrs T compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of its actions. I appreciate that the 
scammers are the ones responsible for the majority of the upset Mrs T has suffered but I 
believe Monzo has unnecessarily added to it. Ive listened to the welfare call Monzo had with 
Mrs T after the scam took place and its clear the loss of such a substantial amount of money 
has had a huge impact on Mrs T. I wont go into detail here as Monzo will be well aware from 
this call and its other interactions with Mrs T of how Mrs T feels. Im provisionally minded to 
require Monzo to pay Mrs T £200 for the additional distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Interest
I can see Mrs T transferred funds into her account before making the scam payments but am 
uncertain where these funds came from. I think the most pragmatic approach, subject to any 
responses I receive, is to award 8% simple interest from the date of each relevant 
transaction to the date of settlement.    
Mrs T accepted my provisional decision, but Monzo didnt. Monzo asked me to reconsider its 
offer to pay 50% of Mrs Ts loss from and including the payment of £3,800 on 12 April 2022 
and said:
- It hasnt provided a refund as Mrs Ts loss isnt covered by the CRM Code.- Mrs T should bear some responsibility for her loss as the payments made from her 
Monzo account were legitimate payments to her own account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nothing Monzo has said in response to my provisional decision (relevant parts reproduced 
above) persuades me to depart from it. 
I havent assessed Monzos liability to Mrs T under the CRM Code and have already 
addressed Monzos point about the payments going to a genuine account in Mrs Ts name. I 
said the fact funds were going to an account in Mrs Ts name shouldnt have been enough to 
satisfy Monzo Mrs T wasnt at risk. This was because by the time the transactions were 
made banks like Monzo ought to have had a good understanding of how scams of this 
nature worked, including that a customer often moves funds to an account in their own name 
and on to a scammer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund all payments from (and including) £3,800 on 12 April 2022 onwards;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement (less tax if properly deductible);
- Pay £200 for the additional stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs T.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman