DRN-3672857
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains Paymentsense Limited has unfairly charged fees for PCI 
DSS non-compliance. 
C is represented by its sole director, Mrs E. Mrs E has authorised Mr E to bring the 
complaint to our service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2016 C entered into a merchant services agreement with Paymentsense. Mrs E 
signed the agreement as director of C, and so agreed to the terms and conditions. I find the 
terms and condition made clear enrolment in Paymentsenses PCI DSS scheme was 
mandatory and non-compliance fees could apply. 
When Mrs E completed the application form for Cs agreement, she gave an email address 
for correspondence to be sent to. In September 2016 Paymentsense sent a welcome email 
to that address. This email explained in detail what PCI DSS was, what C would need to do 
to ensure it was compliant, and that non-compliance fees may apply. This email also 
included information about how to access Paymentsenses online PCI DSS portal which had 
further information about compliance requirements. A follow up email was then sent to C 
with the password to access the PCI DSS portal. Im satisfied Paymentsense did enough to 
make C aware of the need to, and how to, ensure it was compliant.
C didnt take any action regarding PCI DSS compliance. Over the following years 
Paymentsense sent several emails and invoiced C for non-compliance fees. It follows Im 
satisfied Paymentsense did enough to make C aware there was a problem and action was 
required. Mr E suggests Paymentsense should have used other opportunities to draw the 
problem to Cs attention, such as when Mrs E made contact about other issues unrelated to 
the PCI DSS compliance. I dont find Paymentsense acted unfairly by solely using the email 
address it had been given to communicate with C  the same email address used to e-sign 
the agreement. A different email address wasnt provided to Paymentsense until 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied Paymentsense did enough to inform C of the need to be PCI DSS 
compliant and as C didnt become compliant, it was fair and reasonable for it to apply 
non-compliance fees.
Im aware Mr E has said Paymentsense took advantage of Mrs E when she agreed to the 
merchant services agreement on Cs behalf. This is because C had an existing merchant 
services agreement with another provider. But given Mrs E is a director of C, with all the 
responsibilities that entails, I cant see how it would be unreasonable for Paymentsense to 
either offer its services to C, or to act on Mrs Es instruction to set up the agreement when 
she signed to say it was wanted. If there was an existing agreement, it would have been for 
Mrs E  and not Paymentsense  to be aware of this and take action accordingly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman