The complaint
Ms C has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card PPI (payment 
protection insurance) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Ms C took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in April 2020 in which I explained why I was considering 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions the may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Ms C responded to say that she was 
basically satisfied with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision, which are now set 
out again below.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had a duty to ensure that Ms C was given a choice about buying the policy, but from 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think that AXA has been able to show that was the case.
Ms C applied for the card in store by filling out a form. She says she was told that she had to 
have the insurance.
Looking at the application form, there is a separate section for PPI with a Yes box that 
could be ticked to accept the policy. The box has been ticked and there is a signature next to 
the tick. The signature is not that of Ms C. Neither does it correspond with the name of the 
staff member that authorised the form  I can tell this because that staff member has signed 
the form at the bottom. Ive got some concerns about this. Firstly, if Ms C had ticked the box 
herself at the time (or even if the store member had completed the form for her and then 
DRN-1856080asked her to check it before signing at the bottom), there would be no need for a signature 
next to the tick. Secondly, if for some reason it was felt that the tick was an amendment that 
needed authorisation, I would expect it to be Ms Cs signature next to the tick.
I therefore have significant doubts about the sales process and overall I am unable to 
conclude that Ms C was given a choice about having the PPI applied to her account.
Normally I would go on to consider other aspects of the sale. But Im satisfied that the failure 
to give Ms C a choice about buying the policy is sufficient reason in itself to uphold the 
complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms C wouldve owed when she closed her store card
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest
added to those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms C
owed when she closed her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had
PPI. If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms C wouldve owed
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms C wouldve owed each month without PPI  Ms C
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on
the extra Ms C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms C
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
D. AXA should tell Ms C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and require AXA France IARD to pay 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman