DRN-3604803
The complaint
Ms Y complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card (NewDay) irresponsibly gave 
her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 1 July 2016, Ms Y applied for a credit account with NewDay. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £300. The credit limit was increased five times to £4,000 on 12 April 2018.  
On 11 October 2021, Ms Y complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommend the complaint be upheld in part. NewDay didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 5 July 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Ms Ys complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Ys complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer and to consider this in association with Ms Ys 
management of her account in making further lending decisions about credit limit increases. 
Its possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms Y with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the 
initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the minimum monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest. From the evidence submitted, there were no 
payment issues in the life of this account through all of the increases to the credit limit. 
Overall, I have placed more weight on this matter than our adjudicator did; that the 
account was well managed throughout. And it was many months (over two and a half 
years to be clearer) after the last credit limit increase that Ms Y contacted NewDay about 
financial difficulties. Ive seen no evidence that NewDay failed to treat Ms Y with 
forbearance when she did. 
I have also noted the bank statements that Ms Y has provided. I have considered that 
there was a lot of transactions on the account that Ms Y showed us, including transfers 
with family members. But overall, the statements show that Ms Y was managing her bank 
account well. There was more money coming in than was going out and the balances 
were largely all positive.   
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms Y to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Ms Y was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms Y was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms Y will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Ms Y to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit increases, 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 19 July 2022. NewDay have not acknowledged receiving the 
decision and have not made a further submission to make in this case or made a request for 
a time extension to do so. I think that NewDay has had sufficient time to make substantive 
further submissions if they had wished to. 
Ms Y has acknowledged receiving the decision and has made her further submission. So, I 
am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Y has said that her account was only being balanced by payments from her husband. 
But the point is, that Ms Y was managing her account. Ms Y and her husband were working 
together to manage their finances. And that, in my mind, is not evidence of financial 
difficulties that would have put NewDay off providing lending to Ms Y. And this was 
something Id already considered before issuing my provisional decision.
Beyond the submission from Ms Y, I have received no new information for me to consider 
following my provisional decision. So, I have no reason to depart from those provisional 
findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for not upholding Ms Ys complaint, I 
have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman