DRN-3089278
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lanyon Financial Planning Limited (Lanyon) advised him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a stakeholder 
pension plan. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms been helped by professional representatives. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
What happened
In 2006 Mr Ms then employer offered its staff the opportunity to transfer out of the company 
DB scheme for an enhanced  that is increased  cash equivalent transfer value (CETV). 
The enhancement was referred to as a top up. The company engaged an investment firm 
to arrange the transfers and to provide advice where that was required. At the time of the 
events Lanyon was operating under a different name. But it has confirmed it is responsible 
for responding to complaints about the matter. Further, Lanyon has instructed a law firm to 
act for it. But, for ease of reading, I will refer to the law firms comments as being Lanyons.
Mr M, and his fellow colleagues, were asked by the scheme trustees to tick a box on a form 
to say which pension scheme option they preferred from:
Top up paid directly to the individual and the reduced CETV paid into a stakeholder 
pension plan (SPP).
Top up paid with the full CETV into the SPP.
Not to transfer.
Mr M signed the form on 28 February 2006 and ticked the box to say that he wanted to take 
the first option. That is to take the top up in cash and transfer his benefits out of the DB 
scheme and into an SPP. 
In April 2006 Lanyon wrote to Mr M. it said it had been told that Mr M was interested in the 
DB schemes Trustees offer. It asked him how he wanted to proceed by choosing one of 
three options. Those were:
To transfer  his benefits  from  the DB scheme  without  taking  advice.
To consider  transferring  after  Lanyon  provided  advice.
To make  his own arrangement  for transfer.
Theres no evidence that Mr M replied to that letter and in May 2006 Lanyon put those 
options to him again and asked him to phone it with his choice. 
12 days later, on 29 May 2006, Mr M signed a declaration confirming he wanted to transfer 
out of the DB scheme. 
On 17 July 2006 Lanyon wrote to Mr M. It confirmed the details of a phone conversation that 
day. It said that Mr M had told it that he had decided to transfer the reduced CETV to an 
SPP providing the name of the plans provider. Lanyon said that Mr M had chosen not to 
seek independent financial advice. It said it had enclosed an execution only letter and that 
it had explained what that meant to Mr M. It asked him to sign that and return it to Lanyon. It 
also enclosed an application form for Mr M to join the named SPP.
Mr M signed and returned the execution only letter. That said Mr M had been offered full 
advice on transferring from his DB scheme but he had chosen not to seek any advice. It 
added that Mr M had decided to use the named SPP to receive the CETV. It said:
The decision to transfer is entirely yours as you will not receive any advice or 
recommendation from [Lanyon]
On 19 September 2006 Mr Ms CETV of £2,181.59 was paid into the SPP. Mr Lanyons told 
us he also received a top up payment of around £600. On 2 October 2006 the company 
managing the SPP confirmed it had received the CETV. The following day it paid 
commission to Lanyon totalling £65.45.
I understand that in 2011, as Mr Ms former employer couldnt meet its liability to the DB 
scheme, the scheme entered a pension protection fund (PPF) assessment process and was 
formerly entered into the PPF in 2013. The PPF is a scheme aimed at protecting guaranteed 
benefits from DB schemes when those are no longer solvent.
Mr M complained to Lanyon in November 2020. Amongst other things he said:
Lanyon hadnt explained the risks of him being exposed to a significantly lower 
retirement income. And, if it had explained, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
transfer.
He had given up guaranteed, inflation indexed, benefits in favour of a pension linked 
to the stock-market.
The chosen SPP was unsuitable as it was a single, complex and high-cost fund.
Lanyon didnt explain the costs involved. 
Lanyon didnt follow the regulators guidance.
Lanyon didnt give Mr M enough information to make an informed decision.
Lanyon didnt initially reply to Mr Ms complaint within the regulators deadline for doing so 
and Mr M brought his complaint to us. But when Lanyon gave us its file it told us that, while it 
did give advice to some members of the DB scheme, it hadn't provided any advice to Mr M. 
It said it had arranged the transfer on a non-advised basis.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He said that while Mr Ms complaint 
was about events which took place more than six years ago, the investigator felt that we had 
the powers to look into it. That was because Mr M had brought his complaint within three 
years of the date when he reasonably became aware that he had cause to complain.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the papers indicated that Mr M had 
chosen not to receive advice and as such the transfer was conducted on an execution only 
basis. Mr M would have expected to pay a higher commission fee if Lanyon had given 
advice. He said that the high costs associated with such advice might have been why Mr M 
chose not to take it. The investigator said he had spoken to Mr M who had confirmed that 
no-one had ever given him advice about the transfer. As such our investigator said there 
was no evidence that Lanyon gave advice.
Mr M disagreed, he said:Transferring out of the scheme didn't meet the test for being classed as 
execution-only.
Lanyon had instigated the action not Mr M.
The fact that Mr M[] did not pay for advice merely reflects the fact that the cost of 
advice would have been a very high proportion of the transfer value.
When effecting transfers out of defined benefit schemes, there were minimum 
requirements for advice firms including warning the consumer of the risks involved 
and the guaranteed rights being given up. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has published some specific rules 
concerning the information that advising financial firms must provide when making a 
recommendation to a consumer about transferring from a DB scheme. But those rules only 
apply when the firm is making a recommendation, that is, when its providing advice. 
In this case Lanyon has said that it didn't make a recommendation or provide any advice at 
all. It said that it carried out the transaction on whats known as an execution only basis. That 
is, it arranged the transfer without giving Mr M information about whether or not the transfer 
was in his best interests. And in those circumstances Lanyon wouldn't be required to follow 
the FCAs advice rules. So what I need to decide is if Lanyon can fairly treat the transfer 
from the DB scheme as execution only.
When Lanyon wrote to Mr M on 17 July 2006 it said it had spoken with him that day. Hed 
told it that he did want to go ahead with the transfer but that he didnt want any advice from 
Lanyon. Lanyon said it had explained what it meant by execution only and it sent him a letter 
for him to sign which explained that he wanted to proceed on an execution only basis; that it 
was his choice to do so, and that Lanyon hadn't provided any advice or a recommendation. 
Mr M signed the letter agreeing to those things. So it seems that, at that time, Mr M 
understood that Lanyon was arranging the transfer for him on an execution only basis. 
Further, when Mr M spoke with our investigator, Mr M confirmed that no-one had ever given 
him advice about the transfer. So Mr M is clear that Lanyon did not provide any advice or a 
recommendation. And he went ahead with it without advice.
I'm aware that it was Lanyon that approached Mr M initially about the transfer rather than the 
other way round. But I dont think that means that Lanyon couldnt then fairly proceed on an 
execution only basis. It seems that Mr Ms former employer had instigated the contact with 
Mr M and his colleagues, most likely because it was concerned that it would be unable to 
meet its liabilities under the scheme, as eventually happened in 2011. So it was offering an 
enhanced CETV in order to encourage the scheme members to transfer out of it. At that time Mr M could have chosen to stay in the DB scheme or he could have chosen to 
receive advice. But its quite clear that those weren't his preferred options and that he 
wanted to proceed without advice. In those circumstances, I dont think the fact that Lanyon 
had approached Mr M in the first instance means it would be unfair for it to treat Mr M as an 
execution only client.
Mr Ms said that the DB scheme doesn't meet the test for being classed as execution only. 
Mr M hasnt explained which test he thinks applies. But an individual is only required to 
receive financial advice concerning a DB transfer when the amount to be transferred 
exceeds £30,000. That wasnt the case for Mr M. And in any event that rule didnt come into 
effect until 2015. So, at the time of the transfer, the regulators rules did allow for DB scheme 
benefits to be transferred on an execution only basis. So I don't think there was anything 
inherently wrong with Lanyon proceeding on that basis.
Further Mr Ms said that there are minimum requirements that apply to firms carrying out 
such transfers in terms of warnings which must be given. But, the regulator didnt introduce 
those requirements until 2015. It follows that the minimum requirements Mr M referred to 
simply didnt apply at the time that he decided to transfer out of his DB scheme. And in those 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for Lanyon to make the DB transfer on an execution 
only basis. 
For completeness Ill add that Lanyon referred to Mr M having been given a presentation 
prior to him choosing to transfer out of the DB scheme. Its not clear who gave that 
presentation or if it contained a sufficiently detailed SPP illustration to meet the regulators 
rules about product disclosure at that time. But, I dont think whether he received that 
appropriately detailed illustration or not would have made any difference. That's because 
Mr M made it clear from the outset that he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme and that 
he wanted to do so without receiving advice. Theres no evidence that he was looking to 
explore his options. So, on balance, I dont think that the provision or otherwise of a product 
illustration would have significantly influenced his choices. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman