DRN-2521786
The complaint
D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its business bank account without saying 
why. 
What happened
Ds owner has told us that the business has banked with Barclays for around 24 years. On 
25 August 2020 Barclays wrote to D and said it had taken the decision to close its bank 
account on 26 October 2020. Barclays said the account would continue to operate as normal 
until that time. Barclays letter also said D would need to make new banking arrangements 
with an alternative provider. Barclays letter gave D 62 days notice of its intention to close 
the account.
On 1 September 2020 Ds owner spoke with Barclays. They have told us that Barclays 
advised something on his account had caused it to take the decision to close it and there 
was nothing that could be done. No specific reason was provided. Barclays said its account 
terms allow it to close an account at any time. Barclays said it had taken a commercial 
decision to close the account and didnt agree it had made an error. 
Ds owner referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Barclays actions were in line with account terms and said there was no 
obligation on it to say why it had taken the decision to close the account. Ds owner asked to 
appeal, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ds owner has said it was a shock to find out the business account would be closing and 
doesnt understand why Barclays made that decision. I can understand why they want a 
more detailed explanation behind Barclays decision. But Barclays has pointed to its terms 
and conditions and says it followed the correct process. And Barclays says it doesnt have to 
give a specific reason for its decision. 
Ive looked at the account terms and can see they say Barclays can close an account 
(and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by giving at least two months 
notice. In this case, Barclays wrote to Ds owner on 25 August 2020 and closed the account 
in question on 26 October 2020. As that was 62 days, or two months, Im satisfied the 
correct process, as set out in the terms, was followed. 
Barclays has told Ds owner that it took a commercial decision to close the account and end 
its banking relationship with the business. We cant force a business to tell a customer why 
its made a commercial decision and Im not persuaded Barclays has treated D unfairly by 
refusing to give a more detailed explanation in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ds owner, but Im satisfied Barclays decision to close the account 
was fair and in line with the account terms. As I havent found that Barclays made an error 
and Im satisfied it dealt with Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman