DRN-3934684
The complaint
Mr J complains that the value of his pension savings transferred to another provider by 
Standard Life Assurance Limited was lower than it should have been. He says that the time 
taken to complete the disinvestment process meant that Standard Life actually received a 
higher value for his pension savings from the disinvestment than it transferred to the new 
provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr J held pension savings that were invested with Standard Life. In March 2022 Mr J 
decided to transfer his pension savings to another provider. So that provider sent a 
request to Standard Life for the transfer of Mr Js pension savings via the automated 
Origo Options system. The request was received on 16 March 2022. So 
Standard Life says that is the effective date that it is using for when it considers to 
have received the instruction to make the transfer.
Standard Life says that its normal approach is that the value applied to any transfer 
out will be taken as the day of receipt of the transfer instruction. So Mr Js pension 
savings being transferred were valued as at 16 March 2022. But the transfer itself 
didnt take place until 23 March 2022. Mr J says his online reporting showed that his 
pension savings were still invested until the day before the funds were transferred. 
And he says that in the period between 16 and 23 March those pension savings had 
increased in value by approximately £7,000.
Mr J asked Standard Life to pay the increased value of his pension savings. 
Standard Life didnt think that it should  it said that the transferred value had been 
calculated correctly as the value on the day his instruction had been received. So it 
didnt think it needed to pay anything further.
I think some of the basic facts about this complaint are not in dispute. Standard Life 
received a valid and complete instruction for the transfer of Mr Js pension savings on 
16 March 2022. And it completed that request by selling Mr Js pension investments, 
and sent the funds to the new provider on 23 March.
Standard Life says that its normal approach is that the value of the transferred funds 
will be set at the date the instruction was received. It appears that Standard Life 
didnt disinvest Mr Js pension savings until six days later, and a higher value was 
received for those investments than has been paid to Mr J on the basis of the earlier 
unit prices.
Standard Life says that it hasnt profited from that delay. It says it is the pooled 
investment fund that receives any gains or losses from this approach. But ultimately, 
Mr J wont have benefitted from that profit, and his is the individual complaint under 
consideration here.
Theres a general expectation that, once the necessary documentation has been 
received, a transfer will occur promptly. The process used by Standard Life could, in 
different circumstances where a more significant period of time has elapsed between 
the notional disinvestment date and the actual date of disinvestment, be enabling 
businesses to delay making a transfer on the basis that they could then potentially 
profit by offering the lower payment due at the earlier date, but capitalising on a 
higher payment received for when investments are sold at the later date. My view is 
that this could result in particularly poor consumer outcomes. Mr J could, under such 
circumstances, have been effectively out of the market for a lengthy period of time, 
during which the business might be capitalising on fund growth, and choosing a 
particularly favourable point at which to disinvest.
And under such circumstances, I might be inclined to say that a business such as
Standard Life should simply pay to Mr J the sum that was realised when his pension 
savings were disinvested at the later date. Mr J would then have profited from the 
delay, but not at Standard Lifes expense. Hed simply be receiving the value which 
was actually gained from the disinvestment of his pension savings. But Standard Life, 
or the investment fund, wouldnt have profited from a lengthy amount of time it took to 
complete the transfer. To enable it to do so would create the type of moral hazard 
Ive outlined above.
 
But I dont think this is the situation here. Although it took several days for 
Standard Life to actually disinvest and transfer Mr Js funds, I dont think this was a 
lengthy period of time in which Mr J was out of the market. I also dont think theres 
any indication here that Standard Life would have been attempting to achieve a 
higher value by delaying the disinvestment. It simply took a few days for the 
disinvestment to occur. And had the value of the funds dropped, Standard Life would 
have still needed to pay the higher value.
In summary, therefore, although I appreciate Mr Js concern at receiving a lower 
value than may actually have been realised by the sale of his pension funds, I dont 
think the actual time he was disinvested was so lengthy as to suggest anything other 
than a short - and importantly in my view not unfairly excessive  period of 
administration in which the transfer was processed.
But I think I should also go on to consider whether Standard Lifes communication 
about how the transfer would proceed was adequate. As a starting point, I have 
looked at a document produced by the Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group 
in 2018. The document set out an industry-wide framework for improving transfers 
and re-registrations. I think it would be reasonable to conclude the document is 
representative of what I might consider to be good industry practice.
Within the document is a section considering how consumers should be kept updated 
about the progress of their transfer. That section suggests that it is the responsibility 
of the acquiring pension scheme to manage the communication process. That seems 
sensible to me  it is that provider with whom the consumer will have an ongoing 
relationship. It is entirely possible that any transfer decision has been reached due to 
a breakdown in the relationship between the consumer and their existing pension 
provider. So here, good industry practice wouldnt suggest that Standard Life should 
have proactively communicated with Mr J about how his transfer would proceed.I think there is a key difference between providing information that is incorrect, and 
not providing any information. Where a consumers expectations are raised, or not 
managed, by the provision of incorrect information I would reasonably expect the 
provider of any incorrect information to take responsibility for that failing. Here I think 
it was open to Mr J to ask, either Standard Life or his new provider, for information 
about how the transfer would be arranged. I have listened to a call between Mr J and 
Standard Life before the transfer was requested. That might have been an ideal 
opportunity for him to seek any clarification he might have wanted about how the 
transfer would be processed. But I am satisfied that, on that call and at any other 
time, Standard Life didnt provide any incorrect information to Mr J about his 
proposed transfer.
I appreciation my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mr J. But I dont 
currently think Standard Life did anything wrong, either in how it completed Mr Js 
transfer or in the information it provided to him about its processes. So I dont 
currently think the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Standard Life says that it agrees with my provisional findings and hasnt 
provided me with anything further. And, whilst Mr J says that he still thinks he should receive 
the actual value of the sold units, he also hasnt provided any additional evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any further evidence or new comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
think Standard Life did anything wrong, either in how it completed Mr Js transfer or in the 
information it provided to him about its processes. I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman