DRN-2478469
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the compensation awarded by HSBC UK Bank Plc, after it failed to 
send him statements for the cash account element of his InvestDirect Plus account.
What happened
In May 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr S as a review of his account meant it realised it hadnt sent 
him statements for the cash account element of his InvestDirect Plus account. It apologised 
for this and offered to send him copies of the missing statements. This account had a 
quarterly fee of £10.50.
Mr S made a formal complaint to HSBC and request it refund all his account fees for the time 
the statements were missing. HSBC paid Mr S £50 in compensation for the error, but 
declined to refund all the fees. It explained the fees were charged for the running of the 
account and the features it provided, not just for sending paper statements.
Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. He said the account fee was paid 
for receiving the statements, so he wanted this refunded. He also wanted compensation for 
having to pursue the complaint. Our investigator looked into his complaint, but didnt uphold 
it. She considered the information was available to Mr S online and that the fee was not 
charged for providing statements. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration at not receiving statements for the cash account element of 
his InvestDirect Plus account. However, I cant agree with him that this error warrants a full 
refund of all his account fees.
Mr S has said that the quarterly account fee is charged due to him receiving paper 
statements  but this is not correct. HSBC has confirmed the account fee is charged for 
much more than this  and I accept this is true. While I appreciate Mr S is correct that HSBC 
used to offer this account without a quarterly fee, hed have previously paid a percentage 
management charge and a charge for expenses. HSBC didnt start charging the fee due to 
providing Mr S with paper statements for one element of the account, but instead moved to a 
different rates model, where it instead charged a set, quarterly fee. 
By having this account Mr S was able open a Stocks and Shares ISA; Investment accounts; 
and to trade in certain stocks and bonds  alongside other account benefits. While he didnt 
receive statements for the cash account he also still held it and was able to use it, which is a 
benefit of the Plus account. And during this time HSBC ran his InvestDirect Plus account and 
administered it  which is a key part of why it charges the fee. So I cant say HSBC has 
acted unfairly by declining to refund Mr S the full account fee for not sending statements for 
just one part of this account.
Mr S has said that hes been deprived of the information he needed to inform his investment 
decisions and that he was blind to the market during this time. But HSBC has confirmed that 
the error only affected the cash account element of this account. So Mr S still received 
information for the investment account element. The cash account is an additional feature of 
the Plus version of this account and so isnt needed to operate an InvestDirect account. 
And Mr S was able to view the transactions to/from the cash account online or via telephone 
banking during this period if hed needed. So he did have access to investment information 
without receiving these statements. And he had the ability to check on the cash account via 
telephone banking (as hes said he didnt use a computer), if hed needed it. While I agree 
Mr S shouldve received these statements, I cant see how hes actually lost out due to not 
receiving them.  
HSBC has compensated Mr S £50 for not sending the cash account statements. I consider 
this is fair compensation considering he still had access to the vast majority of benefits of 
this account. And I cant see that not receiving these statements has caused him any 
financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman