DRN-2271407
The complaint
Miss C complains about The FCC Group Ltd and the settlement fee they charged for a 
successful Packaged Bank Account (PBA) claim.
What happened
On 27 November 2017, Miss C signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) which authorised FCC to 
submit a claim for mis-sold PBA charges against lender L. FCC submitted this claim to 
lender L on 14 December.
On 21 December, lender L upheld Miss Cs claim and awarded her a total compensation 
amout of £3733.57 less the relevant tax. FCC were notified of this award and contacted Miss 
C to arrange payment of their settlement fee on the same day. But Miss C requested a call 
back to arrange this and wasnt available when FCC attempted the call.
On 27 December, FCC received a letter of cancellation from Miss C, dated 20 December. 
They responded explaining the cancellation attempt was outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement. And as lender L had already 
made an offer, they felt their fee remained payable. Miss C was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss C was unhappy FCC were chasing her for a fee as she felt she cancelled the 
agreement. So, she didnt think FCC were reasonable to charge her a settlement fee and 
she wanted this waived. She was also unhappy with the way FCC spoke to her as she felt 
their calls were threatening in their nature. FCC didnt agree as they felt their claim had led 
to the offer and the offer had been received before the cancellation. So, they felt the fee 
remained due. Miss C remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained due to the 
length of time it had been since the event, he was unable to listen to the calls between Miss 
C and FCC. So, he couldnt comment on the conduct of FCC within them.
He recognised Miss Cs cancellation letter was dated the day before lender Ls offer was 
provided. So, he understood why Miss C felt the agreement had been cancelled. But he also 
recognised the cancellation letter hadnt been received by FCC at the time. And he referred 
to the call Miss C had with FCC on the day lender L made the offer where the fee was 
discussed. He explained from the notes he couldnt see evidence to show Miss C made FCC 
aware shed attempted to cancel the agreement. And he thought it wouldve been 
reasonable for Miss C to do so. As he couldnt say Miss C did, and the cancellation was 
received after the offer had been made, he thought FCC were fair to invoice her for their 
settlement fee. So, he didnt think FCC needed to do anything more.
Miss C didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair for FCC to charge a fee as she didnt think 
theyd done any work to secure the PBA refund. And she maintained her belief that she 
cancelled the agreement before an offer was made. She explained she didnt have proof of 
postage due to the time it had been since the event but didnt think it was reasonable to 
expect this. 
Our investigator responded explaining Miss C entered into a fixed fee agreement, meaning 
the settlement fee was based on the offer Miss C received, not the amount of work FCC 
undertook. But he was satisfied FCC submitted the claim and provided the information that 
lender L referred to in the uphold letter. So, he thought FCC had completed work of value. 
And he explained nothing had changed in his view that FCC were entitled to charge a fee. 
Miss C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss C. I understand Miss C 
received a substantial compensation offer from lender L. So, I can appreciate why Miss C 
would have concerns about the settlement fee FCC charged as it may have been more than 
she expected. And I can understand why this was made worse following her attempt to 
cancel the agreement before an offer was made by lender L. But for me to agree that FCC 
have acted unreasonably by charging a settlement fee, Id need to be satisfied that they 
completed no work of value on the claim. Or, that the agreement had been cancelled and 
processed before the offer from lender L had been received. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
First, I want to comment on Miss Cs comment regarding the work FCC completed. When 
Miss C signed the LOA with FCC, she entered into a No Win No Fee agreement. This 
meant that she would only pay for FCCs services if a successful offer was obtained from the 
lender. And these agreements are usually fixed fee. The terms and conditions Miss C 
agreed to explain that FCC will charge a 30% fee + VAT on the total pre-tax settlement. 
So, the settlement fee FCC charged Miss C isnt intended to be representative of the work 
they complete. And I think this was made reasonably clear to Miss C.
But I also need to be satisfied FCC completed work that led to the refund from lender L. Ive 
seen on 14 December 2017 they submitted Miss Cs claim, alongside a valid LOA and a 
PBA Questionnaire that explained Miss Cs reasoning for feeling shed been mis-sold the 
account. And Ive seen the final response issued by lender L, which documents Miss Cs 
concerns, and these reflect the reasons provided by FFC in their initial claim submission. 
I recognise Miss C spoke to lender L directly, and I can understand why this leads to believe 
she completed the work on the claim, but I dont think thats the case. The terms and 
conditions of the agreement explain that Miss C understands I may be required to speak to 
the bank if they attempt to make contact to confirm to contents of my complaints are 
accurate. And I think this is what happened in this situation. Miss C was aware FCC were 
working on her behalf and couldve directed lender L back to FCC if she wished to. But from 
what Ive been told, she didnt do so. 
I dont think its fair for me to say FCC completed no work of value on the claim because of 
lender Ls decision to contact Miss C directly. From what Ive seen, they submitted the claim 
and the relevant information. Lender L recognised FCC as Miss Cs representative by 
acknowledging the claim and making FCC aware of the successful offer of compensation. So, Im satisfied FCC completed the work necessary to obtain a successful refund on Miss 
Cs behalf. And for this reason, I think they acted fairly when invoicing Miss C for their 
settlement fee.
Ive then turned to the dispute around the cancellation of the agreement. Ive seen a letter 
dated 20 December 2017 which Miss C sent to FCC to cancel the agreement. FCC have 
confirmed they received this on 27 December, six days after lender L notified them of the 
successful claim. So, it isnt disputed that Miss C attempted to cancel the agreement. Miss C 
believes that, because the letter was dated the day before lender L made the PBA award, 
she shouldnt be charged a fee. So, Ive considered this and whether I think FCC have acted 
fairly by continuing to charge a settlement fee after becoming aware of the cancellation 
letter.
The term and conditions explain that Miss C was able to cancel the agreement free of 
charge within the 14-day cooling off period. But Miss Cs letter was dated after this, so this 
doesnt apply. It goes on to say that After the first 14 days, you may still cancel without any 
penalty provided that you have not received an offer and Miss C feels that she did this. And 
I can understand this thought process. But, as the letter was dated on 20 December and 
sent by post, I think its reasonable to assume that the letter hadnt been received by FCC 
when lender L made them aware of the successful claim the following day. FCC have 
confirmed the letter wasnt received until 27 December and considering the time of year, Ive 
no reason to dispute this.
So, I think when lender L notified FCC of the successful claim, the agreement was still 
outstanding as the cancellation hadnt been received. But I understand Miss C feels the 
agreement should be deemed as cancelled from the date of the letter. 
Ive seen the following day, FCC spoke to Miss C to discuss the offer and their settlement 
fee. I havent been able to listen to the call, but Ive seen the notes of that call which explain 
that Miss C wasnt able to pay the fee as she didnt have her card but requested a call back 
the following day. Ive seen FCC attempted to honour this agreed call back on 22 December 
but were unable to reach Miss C so left a voicemail. 
Im aware Miss C feels she cancelled the agreement by letter the day before the call. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect Miss C to inform FCC of this fact when they called her 
the following day to discuss the fee. And from the notes provided, I cant see that she did. 
The terms and conditions explain that the agreement could be cancelled in a number of 
ways, including by telephone. So, I think if Miss C had intended to cancel the agreement, 
she couldve made FCC aware of this at that time. And she didnt. 
Because of this, I cant say its unfair for FCC to decided that the date of cancellation began 
on the day they received the cancellation letter, on the 27 December. And because of this, I 
cant say its unfair for them to continue to charge a settlement fee as lender L had upheld 
the claim before this date. So, I cant say FCC have acted unfairly or unreasonably and for 
this reason, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about The FCC Group 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman