DRN-3336641
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt process payment instructions that he 
made in a timely manner.
What happened
On 2 April 2021, Mr S made two payment instructions to Barclays for £20,000 each. One 
was to his ISA account with Barclays, while the second was to his wifes ISA which was held 
with a different bank. Both payments were intended to make full use of the £20,000 personal 
ISA allowance for the tax year ending 5 April 2021.
Mr S contacted his wifes bank to check that the payment had been received before the end 
of the tax year, but was told by them that it had only been received on 6 April 2021, which 
meant the payment hadnt been received in the 2020/21 tax year and that Mr Ss wifes ISA 
allowance had been lost for that year. Mr S wasnt happy about this and felt that Barclays not 
actioning his instructions in a timely manner was to blame, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint. They noted that 2 April 2021  the date on which Mr S 
made the instructions, was Good Friday, and that following the subsequent weekend, 5 April 
2021  the last day of the tax year  was Easter Monday. Given that these days are Bank 
Holidays, Barclays didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by actioning Mr Ss 
instructions in the timeframe that they had.
Barclays also noted that theyd taken the Bank Holidays into account in regard to the transfer 
to Mr Ss own ISA account held with them and that theyd applied the funds as having been 
received on 2 April 2021. But Barclays confirmed that they had no influence on how the 
third-party bank with whom Mr Ss wifes ISA was held would choose to manage the situation 
and they referred Mr S to that other bank in order to resolve that aspect of his complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in how theyd processed his requests or managed the 
ongoing situation, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr S might be upset that the transfer instruction he issued to Barclays 
on 2 April 2021 was only received by the third party bank with whom his wifes ISA is held on 
6 April 2021, which is after the close of the 2020/21 tax year and therefore didnt fulfil the 
intention for which Mr S had instructed the transfer. 
Mr S is aware that he made the transfer on Good Friday, and that after the subsequent 
weekend, the last day of the tax year was Easter Monday. Ms S feels that given that these 
dates corresponded with the end of the tax year  which Mr S contends is a time when many 
people would have been making similar efforts to make use of any remaining ISA allowance 
for that tax year  that Barclays should have treated those days as working days so that any 
instructions issued werent delayed as was the case with his own instructions.
I find it very difficult to concur with Mr S here, and I feel that the fact that these days are titled 
as Bank Holidays should have been instructive to Mr S that they wouldnt be held as 
working days by Barclays, or in all probability by most other banks or financial institutions. 
And I also note that the dates of these bank holidays, and the fact that they aligned with the 
end of the tax year in 2021, had been public information for many years in advance. 
Because of this, I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way here in 
regard to the processing of the payment instructions, and I feel that it was incumbent on Mr 
S, if hed wanted to have made transfers into his wifes and his own ISAs, to have taken 
these bank holidays into account and to have made the transfers on an earlier date.
I also dont feel that its unreasonable for Barclays to have informed Mr S that they have no 
influence on how Mr Ss wifes bank would treat the receipt of the transfer instructed by Mr S 
on 2 April 2021 but received by that bank on 6 April 2021, or to have referred Mr S to the 
other bank to seek a resolution on that aspect of his complaint. This is because, as 
explained, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in how they processed the 
instructed transfers, and because its evident that Barclays dont have the authority to tell 
another financial institution how it should treat a received transfer.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I trust 
that Mr S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman