DRN-2856743
The complaint
Mrs C, who has power of attorney (PoA) for her father Mr W, complains on his behalf about 
difficulties encountered in registering the PoA with Cofunds Limited.
What happened
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He felt that in various letters and 
phone calls with Cofunds Mrs C had been given contradictory information about who could 
certify the PoA. He didnt think it had been made clear to her which professions were 
acceptable. 
The investigator noted that Cofunds had eventually accepted the PoA, under a temporary 
process in response to difficulties created by the ongoing pandemic situation. But he 
nevertheless felt that it should pay £200 to compensate for the problems the lack of clarity 
had created. 
Cofunds didnt accept the investigators suggestion, so the matter was referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at all the information available and listened to a call recording provided by Cofunds 
in response to the investigators view. I noted that in the call, made in July 2019, Mrs C was 
told that certification of the PoA could be done by any professional individual  solicitor, 
lawyer, the bank, the post office, etc. I felt this information differed considerably from the 
very limited list of individuals given in letters sent to Mrs C when the POA wasnt accepted.
Mrs C also referred to having used a magistrate to certify the PoA in a number of other calls 
with Cofunds. And at no point were these opportunities taken to correct her understanding 
and explain that a magistrate wasnt acceptable.
And this was in addition to a call of 4 November 2019, highlighted in the investigators view, 
which concerned the PoA not being certified on all pages. I thought that call wouldve left 
Mrs C with the clear impression that a magistrate/Justice of the Peace was an acceptable 
certifier.
Considering all this, I felt the £200 suggested by the investigator for the trouble and upset 
caused by the provision of inconsistent information was fair and reasonable.
Cofunds was asked to comment further and it accepted that the call handler could have 
clarified that only a solicitor would be acceptable rather than a Justice of the Peace. So, it 
agreed to pay the £200 for the unclear communication.
Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable way in which to resolve the issue and acknowledge 
the likely upset caused to Mr W by the difficulties Mrs C encountered. 
Putting things right
Cofunds must pay Mr W £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cofunds 
Limited to pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman