DRN-4322082
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) gave 
him incorrect information about whether he would need to get sign-off from an Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA) before he took the benefits from one of the two pension plans he 
held with it. 
What happened
Mr L had two remaining pension plans with Sun Life. One had been set up on 7 September 
1988, with a retirement date in 2027. This was worth around £78K at the time of the 
complaint. The other plan had been set up on 22 August 1988 with the same retirement date 
as the bigger plan. It had a value of around £26K at the time of the complaint. 
Mr L told this service hed also held another pension plan with Sun Life. I understand he took 
the benefits from that plan, without the need for financial advice, in 2012.
On 9 May 2023, Mr L contacted Sun Life to ask for the values of his pension plans and to 
request Retirement Packs for both of them. Sun Life confirmed both plans had Guaranteed 
Annuity Rates (GAR) and would need a GAR certificate. And that he could get 25% tax-free 
cash from each plan. 
Sun Life issued Retirement Packs for both plans on 11 May 2023. 
On 5 June 2023, Mr L called Sun Life to ask if he needed to get a signature from an IFA. 
Sun Life told him this wouldnt be required for the plan valued at less than £30,000.
On 6 June 2023, Sun Life received Mr Ls completed pension questionnaire for the smaller 
of his two plans. 
Sun Life realised a few days after the 5 June 2023 call that it had given Mr L incorrect 
information during the call. So it wrote to him on 20 June 2023. It said that as the total value 
of his plans exceeded £30,000, a Safeguarded Benefits Certificate would be required, even 
if he decided to only take his benefits from the smaller plan. And a financial adviser would 
need to sign it. It apologised for the incorrect information itd given him.
Mr L called Sun Life on 21 June 2023 to complain about the incorrect information hed been 
given. He was also unhappy that hed have to wait for his complaint to be considered.
Sun Life issued its final response to the complaint on 4 July 2023. It acknowledged and 
apologised for the mistake itd made during the call on 5 June 2023. It said that as the two 
plans value exceeded £30,000, Mr L would need the certification. Sun Life offered him £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset itd caused. 
Sun Life confirmed that both of Mr Ls plans had a GAR, and both would need a certificate, 
even though one was valued at less that £30,000. It said that the Retirement Packs itd 
issued on 11 May 2023 had contained the following wording:
Guaranteed Annuity Rate
If you transfer or take all of your pension savings as a lump sum, you will give up your 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate so you should think about this carefully. Even if you are not taking 
benefits from all your plans now, you need to talk to a financial adviser if you have pension 
savings with a Guaranteed Annuity Rate of more than £30,000 with us.
Sun Life said that as the total value of the two plans Mr L had held was greater than 
£30,000, it would still require a GAR certificate, even if he only took the benefits from the 
plan with a value below £30,000. It said this was because the Pension Schemes Act 2015, 
which had introduced Safeguarded Benefits, required a consumer to receive financial advice 
about whether to give up a GAR as it was a valuable Safeguarded Benefit. And that this was 
a legal requirement which it had to comply with unless the combined values of Mr Ls plans 
fell below £30,000.
Sun Life also said that this service allowed it eight weeks to investigate a complaint. 
Sun Life called Mr L on 10 July 2023 to discuss his complaint. Mr L told Sun Life hed 
spoken to Pension Wise and an IFA. And that they had both told him he wouldnt need a 
certificate. Mr L asked for a copy of the law Sun Life had relied on to be issued to him.
Sun Life wrote to Mr L again on 14 July 2023 to confirm the regulations it had relied on. It 
said both plans had been set up under the same pension scheme. And that the regulations, 
as set out in section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015, made it clear that the 
requirement to obtain regulated advice applies where a member has rights in excess of 
£30,000 in a registered pension scheme. It said it didnt matter that there were two plans in 
this case as Mr Ls plans were both in the same scheme.
Our investigator acknowledged that Sun Life had given Mr L incorrect information on 5 June 
2023. But she was satisfied that the two plans fell under the same scheme. And therefore 
that appropriate financial advice was required in this case as the total value of the two plans 
was more than £30,000, despite Mr L only wanting to access benefits from the plan that was 
valued at under £30,000. 
Our investigator felt that Sun Life had taken reasonable steps to put things right when itd 
quickly corrected the information and offered Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He said that other pension experts had led him to 
believe that Sun Life had interpreted the rules in this way, rather than taken this approach 
because it was required by law. 
Mr L said hed had another pension plan with Sun Life, which hed been allowed to access 
the benefits of individually without taking financial advice. And that all three plans had been 
taken out on separate occasions. He felt they shouldve all been treated separately. 
Our investigator asked Mr L to provide information about his third pension plan to 
demonstrate which pension scheme the plan was part of. 
Mr L said he didnt have much information on the other plan. But as far as he could 
remember, all three plans were the same. He said hed decided to cash in the other plan in 
2012. 
Our investigator also asked Sun Life to provide information about the other plan. To date, 
Sun Life hasnt provided any information on it. 
Sun Life asked our investigator to clarify whether or not her view meant that she agreed with its decision and offer of compensation. She explained that shed upheld the complaint as 
Sun Life had made an error. But that she agreed with the suggested resolution. She further 
explained that if the ombudsman agreed with her view, the case would be recorded as no 
change in outcome. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Sun Lifes offer of £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused is fair under the circumstances of this complaint. I know this 
will be disappointing to Mr L. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as Sun Life has done  what I 
have to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable. 
In this case, Sun Life has acknowledged that it gave Mr L incorrect information. But said that 
it had acted correctly in confirming to Mr L that he would need a certificate, even if he only 
took benefits from the plan which was worth less than £30,000. It said this was because both 
of his plans were part of the same scheme and therefore it had to consider the regulations 
against the combined value of the two plans. It offered Mr L £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him. 
Mr L doesnt agree with Sun Life that it has to consider the combined value of the plans. He 
thinks its interpreted the law incorrectly. And that he should be allowed to take the benefits 
from the plan worth less than £30,000 without the need for certification. 
I first considered whether Sun Life has correctly interpreted the legislation. 
The legislation
Sun Life has confirmed that both of Mr Ls remaining pension plans were held under the 
same pension scheme. 
As both Sun Life and our investigator have explained, this means that, as the legislation 
requiring advice applies to pension schemes, rather than individual plans, and as both of the 
plans contain Safeguarded Benefits, certification is required regardless of whether Mr L 
wanted to transfer just the smaller plan or both plans. This is despite the smaller plan being 
valued below £30,000.
I acknowledge that Mr L doesnt agree. But Im satisfied that Sun Life has correctly 
interpreted the legislation. So I cant reasonably require it to allow Mr L to take the benefits 
from his smaller plan without certification.
I next considered why Mr L was able to take the benefits from his other plan without the 
need for certification.
Mr Ls other plan with Sun Life
Mr L said Sun Life had let him access the benefits of this plan without taking financial advice. 
So he felt he should also be able to take the benefits from his smaller remaining plan without 
taking financial advice. Mr L hasnt provided a great deal of information on this other plan. But he did say that hed 
decided to cash it in in 2012. Sun Life hasnt provided any information on this plan.
The government introduced changes to pension laws, including new pension freedoms, in 
April 2015. These were mainly under the following Acts:
Part 4 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015
The Pension Schemes Act 2015 (Transitional Provisions and Appropriate 
Independent Advice) Regulations 2015
The laws allowed people more flexibility in the way they accessed their pension benefits. But 
at the same time, the laws introduced some restrictions for people with Safeguarded 
Benefits which required them to take advice.
As I understand that Mr L accessed his other Sun Life pension plan benefits before the 
Pension Schemes Act 2015 came into force, its not surprising that he was able to take the 
benefits from that plan without the need for certification. The requirement for such 
certification wasnt in place yet.
Therefore, I havent seen any evidence that Sun Life made a mistake when it allowed Mr L to 
access the benefits from his other plan without the need for certification. 
I finally considered whether Sun Lifes offer of £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
the incorrect information it caused was fair. 
Distress and inconvenience
Between 5 June 2023 and 20 June 2023, Mr L thought hed be able to access the benefits 
from his smaller plan without the need for an IFA signature. But this wasnt correct. As his 
benefits under one pension scheme exceeded £30,000, Mr L wasnt able to access the 
benefits of either of his two plans without certification. I consider that the 11 May 2023 
Retirement Packs had also made this clear.
Mr L suffered a loss of expectation for about two weeks. I can understand that it wouldve 
been frustrating to find out that he couldnt do what he wanted to without certification, but, as 
I noted earlier, Im satisfied that Sun Life has correctly interpreted the law here. So Mr L was 
never in a position where he couldve accessed the benefits from his smaller plan without 
certification.
Sun Life has offered Mr L £150 compensation and said sorry for its error and the trouble and 
upset it has caused. As it corrected its error relatively quickly, and as Mr L is in the position 
he shouldve been in, I consider that this level of compensation is fair and reasonable.
As I understand that Sun Life has yet to pay the £150 compensation, I uphold this complaint. 
But I dont consider that Sun Life needs to improve its compensation offer.
Putting things right
I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Mr L £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the incorrect information has caused him.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Mr L £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman