DRN-3185224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to their mortgage, 
taken out in 2014. They feel they should not be charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
when they switch their mortgage. They also complain that they were promised return calls 
which never materialised, and that they also received confusing correspondence about their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took a mortgage with Barclays in December 2014. The mortgage term was 11 
years 3 months, but in the first 10 years the interest rate was fixed at 3.89%, reverting after 
that to Barclays standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr S rang Barclays on 17 December 2020 and the mortgage adviser (MA) he spoke to said 
they could change mortgage provider from the 1 June 2021 with only a £275 exit fee to pay. 
Mr S says he was also sent a letter to that effect.
Mr S called Barclays again on 7 May 2021. The MA explained that as he was in the last 
three years of a 10-year fixed rate there would be a 3% ERC applicable if he moved his 
mortgage before June 2024. At the time Mr and Mrs S thought that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had issued guidance saying that people who were tied into high interest 
rates on their mortgage couldnt be prevented from changing their mortgage provider or 
charged any fees for moving to another lender. 
Mr S said he was promised a call from a MA on the 10 May to discuss the matter further but 
that never materialised. Mr S did though manage to speak with a MA on 12 May 2021 and 
talked about switching his mortgage to one with a much-reduced interest rate, or for 
Barclays to allow him to change mortgage provider. The MA confirmed that an ERC was 
payable should he switch his current mortgage and Mr S said the MA said she would speak 
to her manager and call him back within 24 hours but failed to do so.
Barclays did not accept that they had acted unfairly and did not uphold Mr and Mrs S 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had poor 
service by Barclays in so far as their communications with Mr and Mrs S were concerned 
and suggested Barclays should compensate Mr and Mrs S by paying them £150. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall start by considering the original mortgage offer of 24 July 2014. It shows that a 
mortgage with a fixed interest rate of 3.89% for the first 10 years was offered, although the 
term was 11 years three months. The fixed rate ended on 30 June 2024 at which point the 
rate reverts to Barclays SVR for the rest of the mortgage term.
Section 10 of the mortgage conditions is entitled What happens if you do not want this 
mortgage anymore? and explains when early repayment charges will be payable. It says, 
The figures assume a start date for the mortgage of 01 August 2014. Early repayment 
charges are payable on this mortgage until 30 June 2024 as follows. It then gives examples 
of the amount which would be payable if the mortgage were redeemed before or after 1 July 
2024. The ERC reduces from 6% to 3% on 1 July 2021.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs S received this document. They do not argue that they didnt. I 
find therefore that they knew of the potential ERC charges and under what circumstances 
they might be payable. The existence of the ERC was clear and was not, in my view, 
misleading at all.
Mr and Mrs S have produced two letters from Barclays which have caused some confusion. 
They are confusing because the letter dated 20 October 2014 indicates that the mortgage 
was A variable rate which is 2.49% above the base rate (currently 0.5%) to give a current 
rate payable of 2.99% applies to the loan until 30/06/2021. Further into the letter, under the 
heading Reasons(s) for change, it states The interest rate charged on [the account number 
is set out] has changed to 3.89% effective from 21/10/2014 until 30/06/2021.
It is very obvious that this letter has been produced in error since the mortgage was always a 
fixed rate mortgage for the first 10 years and not one on an SVR.
The second letter dated 30 March 2021 is also confusing because it states, The interest rate 
charged on has changed to 3.89% effective from 30/03/2021 until 30/06/2024. Again, this 
letter appears to have been produced in error since it does not accord with the original 
mortgage terms set out in the offer. But, although the letters are confusing, Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs S would have known that their mortgage was at a fixed rate for the first 10 years 
at 3.89%, as that was the rate they had been paying at.
Turning to the issue of the ERC; how much is payable and when were clearly explained to 
Mr and Mrs S in the mortgage offer. What has clouded the issue is the MA mistakenly telling 
Mr and Mrs S that there would be no ERC payable during the call in December 2020. Whilst 
this is a clear service failing, the mistaken advice does not alter the terms of the original 
agreement, and so it is right to say that the ERC remains payable. I cant therefore say that 
Barclays have acted unfairly in stating that the ERC still applies.
Mr and Mrs S had initially thought there to have been a directive issued by FCA allowing 
borrowers to come out of long term and high interest rate mortgages without penalty. 
Unfortunately, there is no such directive applicable to high street lenders like Barclays, and 
whilst I recognise that such directives exist in other forms of lending they are not applicable 
here. I cant therefore say that Barclays have acted unfairly in this regard either.
So, overall, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly in wishing to stick to the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage. Where I do find there to be some criticism is in the 
communications Barclays had with Mr and Mrs S. I have seen no explanation for why the 
correspondence was confusing and wrong, and in so far as the MAs advice was concerned 
Barclays have not tried to hide that that was inaccurate either. Further, Barclays have accepted that promised calls were not returned. These errors are regrettable, and I can 
readily accept that this led to frustration, annoyance, and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Although Mr and Mrs S will probably be disappointed that my decision doesnt go far enough 
for them, I do feel Barclays have acted unfairly here to the extent Ive identified above and 
Im upholding this complaint to that extent. When this service considers what an appropriate 
level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, 
distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
Ive taken account of the fact that the correspondence was confusing, and the advice 
received poor, leading to a degree of false expectation, and the annoyance in not receiving 
promised call backs. But, Ive also taken account of the fact that Mr and Mrs S suffered no 
financial loss. I say that because they got what they agreed to when taking out the mortgage. 
In my view, any award for the trouble and upset caused here also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of life which we all face when dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that at time it can be inconvenient. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the suggestion of £150 by our investigator is 
a fair and reasonable award for the impact of the service failures upon Mr and Mrs S, and I 
intend to award the same.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC shall pay to Mr and Mrs S £150 to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman