DRN-3026145
The complaint
Mr S complains Online Currency Corp Ltd (OCC) was complicit in an investment scam he 
was the victim of. 
What happened
From mid-2016, Mr S used OCC to transfer money from his bank account to a wallet with 
company P. He used company D as an exchange service in this transfer, who are a 
corporate client of OCC. The money was received by Mr S in his wallet with P. Mr S has 
explained he sent this money, as he understood his money would be invested and he was 
guaranteed returns. Mr S lost all his money.
Mr S complained to our service after attempting to pursue his case through several other 
avenues. We contacted OCC and it responded to the complaint, not upholding it. It said that 
it had processed the transactions as Mr S had requested. It showed the funds being 
deposited in Mr Ps wallet with P, in the currency he had requested. 
Our investigator explained we couldnt investigate companies D and P, as neither were 
regulated. And she didnt consider OCC had done anything wrong, as we had evidence from 
both Mr S and OCC that it had moved his funds to where hed requested. While Mr S 
provided a large amount of information around the scam he was involved in and why he 
considered OCC was part of it, he couldnt evidence that it had any part in him losing his 
funds. So she didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately this case comes down to whether or not OCC can be clearly linked to, and 
apportioned responsibility for, what happened to Mr Ss funds. And based on the evidence 
we hold, Im not saying it can.
Mr S has said that as he found OCC via Ps social media and as it was the start of the chain 
that resulted in him losing funds, it is partially responsible. But I cant agree. OCC hasnt 
anywhere contracted or agreed to take responsibility for what happens to money after it 
transferred it to another firm. OCC was regulated as an electronic money institution (EMI), 
but that is all. And as these transfers were made in 2016, they arent covered by later 
standards and protections the regulator introduced for EMIs.
The amounts Mr S was transferring were also not unusual for this type of organisation. As an 
EMI, OCC didnt have an existing banking relationship with Mr S, so for example having a 
history of his transactions or accounts that meant it could look at for unusual spending. And 
there was no requirement for it to do this in any event. Mr S made transfers in his branch to 
OCC, so he didnt interact with it. And the amounts Mr S sent arent uncharacteristic for this 
type of business, they are in fact common as the levels of transactions made are exactly 
what people use these types of EMIs for. 
OCC was requested by Mr S to transfer his funds to his account with P, using D as a 
currency exchange service. And I can see it did that and the money was then available in 
Mr Ss wallet with P. I appreciate that its from here that the money was then lost and Mr S 
says hes been the victim of fraud, but once OCC correctly credited the funds to his account 
with P, its responsibility ended. I accept Mr S believes OCC was part of the scam, but I 
havent seen any actual evidence of this. And as I will come onto below, I think its possible 
the scam started with the social media advert Mr S found and wasnt linked to OCC, D or the 
genuine P.
Looking at the social media screenshots provided, I have some concerns. Mr S has 
explained he found OCC via Ps social media, but I note that the image hes provided us of 
Ps page shows an error which is unusual for a genuine firm.
Under Ps name, which is written as youd expect to see it, theres a handle for the firm 
(@...) and this handle has a typo. If for any reason the genuine firm was unable to secure 
the handle for its brand, I would be surprised it would choose to have a typo rather than 
adding something else related to the firm to make it unique. And the website for P doesnt 
have any links to social media on its page  at least at this point in time. Mr S has suggested 
the advert he saw was fraudulent and I agree this seems to be the case.
The messages Mr S received from Ps social media page also contain typos. And again you 
wouldnt expect this from a genuine firm (such as the word fraude). The messages are 
directing Mr S where to invest the money hes transferred to P. So it seems to me this is how 
his money was lost, as he interacted with a fraudulent firm and then followed its instructions, 
using genuine firms to move his money which the scammer ultimately accessed. But as 
above, I cant hold OCC responsible for its part in this chain. I dont have any documentary 
evidence it was aware of any fraudulent activity. It followed Mr Ss instructions and the 
transfers it made were using, and to, genuine firms.
Ive read the article Mr S provided on an international case involving OCC. But this doesnt 
change the outcome of his case, as without any evidence that links OCC to Mr Ss missing 
funds, I cant say its done anything wrong. Ive seen no evidence Mr Ss money was taken 
by or transferred through OCC after he says it went missing. 
I accept Mr S says hes lost money as the result of an investment scam. But I havent seen 
any evidence that shows OCC was complicit in this scam. I accept it was a part of the 
payment journey, but that isnt the same thing. Our service doesnt have the power to look 
into the actions of D and P, as they are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
And based on the social media messages, I think it was actually the investment firm after P 
which took/lost Mr Ss funds. Ultimately, I havent seen evidence OCC did anything wrong in 
this case. It facilitated an exchange and transferred money from Mr Ss account into his 
wallet with P, as he instructed it to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman