DRN-3209573
The complaint
Mrs H  who is also complaining on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr H  feels 
that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account when she was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs H complained to Santander about unarranged overdraft charges and interest applied to 
her account since at least 2010. She says the charges significantly affected her and Mr Hs 
financial position and that the charges have continued to affect her.
Santander looked at Mrs Hs complaint, it said that the charges had been applied fairly.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns, she explained that any complaint 
about charges applied from before 2013 had been brought to us too late. She also explained 
that she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mrs Hs account 
from 2013 onwards. Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found
online.
Mrs H has complained about charges applied to her account from at least 2010 onwards. 
This means that Mrs H had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added in 
order to complain. So, for example, any charges applied between 2010 and September 2013 
would have had to be complained about by between 2006 and September 2019. Mrs H 
didnt complain until October 2019, so she complained more than six years after some of the 
events she is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mrs H with longer to complain here.
I think that in order for me to find that Mrs H knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
she had cause to complain, I need to be satisfied that she was aware the charges were
being applied, knew that those charges were contributing to her financial difficulties, and
knew that it was Santander who was responsible for applying the charges.
Mrs Hs statements would have set out the charges shes unhappy with. So I think that she 
would have been aware of the charges that Santander was applying to her account at the 
time. And shed have been aware of her financial circumstances during that period of time 
too, so shed have known whether she was able to afford to pay the charges. As this is the 
case, I think that Mrs H also ought to have known whether the charges were too much or 
causing her difficulty. And I think shed have known that Santander was responsible for 
applying those charges too. So I think Mrs H would have known she had cause to complain 
as soon as the charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide 
Mrs H with longer to complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that her complaint about 
charges from before October 2013 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. But Mrs H hasnt detailed any specific exceptional 
circumstances that I think would have stopped her complaining earlier, so I dont think 
exceptional circumstances were responsible for the delay.
I can though, look at charges applied to Mrs Hs account from October 2013 onwards.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about 
the charges applied from late 2013 onwards. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Santander charged Mrs H over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs H if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat 
Mrs H fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Santander did treat Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties that 
should have flagged to Santander that Mrs H might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Mrs H wasnt in financial difficulties, but while I 
accept that Mrs H was using her overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account. So I dont think this was enough to flag to Santander that it ought to review her 
account in more detail, or that should have alerted Santander to any potential financial 
difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H, but Im satisfied that Santander 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman