DRN-2237563
The complaint
Mr C complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) hasnt paid his critical 
illness claim in full.
What happened
In April 2012 Mr C took out a decreasing term assurance policy with L&G, which included life 
and critical illness cover (CIC). As part of the application, L&G asked Mr C a series of 
questions about his health, and Mr C didnt disclose any health conditions. 
In 2019 Mr C had coronary artery bypass surgery for ischaemic heart disease, and he made 
a claim for this under the CIC part of his policy. But after assessing Mr Cs claim, L&G 
decided in October 2019 to only pay Mr C a proportion of the £49,955 sum assured at that 
time. It said this was because it had found hed been diagnosed with an autoimmune 
condition very many years before taking out the policy, and for which hed taken daily 
medication ever since. L&G said that when Mr C applied for his policy, hed therefore 
incorrectly answered no when asked In the last 12 months have you had any medical 
condition, illness or injury for which you have received treatment for a continuous period of 
4 weeks or more? L&G said it would have charged Mr C higher premiums if it had known 
about his autoimmune condition. So L&G paid Mr C £31,144 in settlement of his claim.
Mr C complained to L&G. He said hed never intended to mislead and the layout of the 
application form - moving from questions about his health ever, to last five years, and then 
to last twelve months  led him to think this question was about recent conditions 
diagnosed in that time, not long standing conditions. Mr C said if L&G was concerned about 
his autoimmune condition, it should have specified it in the health ever questions along with 
the other conditions it mentioned.
In its final response, L&G said it had been correct to only pay a proportion of Mr Cs claim. It 
said the question was clear and Mr C had been receiving treatment for a condition in the 
twelve month period in question, because hed taken daily medication for his autoimmune 
condition in that time.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service, as he thought this question was ambiguous and 
L&G was applying a retrospective rationale. Our investigator said L&G hadnt done anything 
wrong. He thought the question was clear and that Mr C had failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation by answering it incorrectly. He said if Mr C had answered it 
correctly, L&G would have charged him more for the policy. So he thought L&G acted fairly 
by paying a proportion of the sum assured. 
Mr C disagreed, saying the question was unclear and focused on the last twelve months 
rather than on long term conditions. As Mr C disagreed, his complaint came to me for a 
decision. 
After reviewing Mr Cs complaint I contacted both Mr C and L&G to say I thought the industry 
guidance that applied here was the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI 
Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products September 2019 (2019 ABI code). And that under it, 
I thought L&G needed to pay Mr C a higher proportion of the sum assured, amounting to 
£33,308.50.
Mr C said again that the question was ambiguous but welcomed the additional payment Id 
suggested.  
L&G disagreed. It said the settlement Id outlined was that given by the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, known as CIDRA, and that CIDRA didnt apply 
here. It said it had paid Mr Cs claim in proportion to the premium that was actually charged, 
in accordance with the 2019 ABI code - it said the premiums Mr C actually paid would only 
have bought him an original sum assured of £39,325 which, because it was a decreasing 
term policy, stood at £31,144 when Mr C claimed.
L&G provided further comments to explain its interpretation of the proportionate remedy set 
out in section 9.2.1 of the 2019 ABI code. It said the remedy had two parts; a first part 
intended for policies taken out before 6 April 2013 (like Mr Cs), and a second part for 
policies taken out after that date and which specified using the formula from CIDRA. And as 
the first part didnt specify a calculation, the code allowed some discretion in calculating a 
proportionate settlement. L&G said it had already offered Mr C a fair proportion and my 
suggestion to increase this would put Mr C in a better position than the code intended and 
than other customers.
Im now in a position to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think L&G needs to pay Mr C more in settlement of his claim. 
The relevant law here is the Marine Insurance Act 1906 as the policy was sold before 
6 April 2013, when CIDRA came into force. But as well as taking account of the law, I also 
need to take into account relevant guidelines and codes, which includes the 2019 ABI code, 
as well as good industry practice, to make a decision that is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In light of this I need to determine whether Mr C made a misrepresentation and if so, 
whether that misrepresentation was innocent, careless, or reckless or deliberate. And 
whether L&G has applied the correct remedy for that misrepresentation, which is set out in 
the 2019 ABI code.
L&G says Mr C incorrectly answered no when asked In the last 12 months have you had 
any medical condition, illness or injury for which you have received treatment for a 
continuous period of 4 weeks or more?
Mr C says this question was ambiguous because it was in the health last twelve months 
section of the application form, and that it was reasonable to think it was asking about recent 
conditions, not long term ones. And that if L&G particularly wanted to know about his 
autoimmune condition, it should have specified it in the application health questions. 
After looking at the application form health questions Mr C completed, I acknowledge what 
he says about them progressing from ever to last twelve months. But at the start of each of the health question sections, the form says When answering all of the following questions, if 
you are unsure of the relevance of any medical condition you have had, please disclose it 
anyway. Where examples are shown they are not intended to be a complete list. From this, 
I think L&G made clear its examples werent an exhaustive list and that Mr C should tell it 
about any conditions he had even if he wasnt sure they were relevant. 
And Im satisfied the question in dispute is clear. It asked whether Mr C had any medical 
condition in the last twelve months that he was treated continuously for, for four weeks or 
more. And it doesnt contain anything to suggest its only asking about medical conditions 
that have occurred or been diagnosed in the last twelve months. 
Mr C answered no to that question, and he didnt correct it when L&G wrote and asked him 
to check his application and sign to confirm it was correct  Mr C instead ticked yes when 
asked have we got your details right?, and he signed to say the application was correct. But 
from Mr Cs medical records and what hes told L&G and our service, Im satisfied that 
answer was incorrect. Mr C was diagnosed with an autoimmune condition thirty years before 
he took out the policy and had taken daily medication for it since then. 
So during the twelve month period in question, Mr C had a medical condition (his 
autoimmune condition) for which hed received treatment (daily medication) for four weeks or 
more (ever since his diagnosis thirty years previously). Mr C says he didnt intend to deceive 
L&G, and I dont doubt his sincerity. However, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable of L&G 
to conclude Mr C hadnt taken reasonable care to ensure he answered this question 
correctly when applying for the policy. In other words, Im satisfied Mr C made a careless 
misrepresentation here. 
I think this misrepresentation made a difference, as L&G has provided underwriting criteria to 
show that if Mr C had answered that question correctly, it would have charged him higher 
premiums for both the life and CIC parts of his policy. Therefore, Mr C has paid L&G less in 
premiums than he should have since he took out the policy. For that reason, I think its fair 
for L&G to apply a proportionate remedy.
To think about what a fair proportion would be in the specific circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint, Ive considered the relevant industry guidance that applies here, which is the 
2019 ABI code.
Section 9.2.1 of the 2019 ABI code says where The premium would have been rated  
where the insurer would have offered the same cover but charged the customer a higher 
premium, the insurer will pay the claim in proportion to the premium that was actually 
charged. Where the policy was entered into or varied on or after 6 April 2013, the insurer 
will use the formula set out at Schedule 1, paragraph 8 of CIDRA 2012 or a formula no less 
generous than this. 
I appreciate L&G says the settlement of £31,144 it had already offered Mr C was fair, 
proportionate and in line with the 2019 ABI code. And that the 2019 ABI code allows 
discretion in deciding what a proportionate settlement should be. 
But the 2019 ABI code specifies that the insurer will pay the claim in proportion to the 
premium that was actually charged, which is in line with the CIDRA formula. I dont think 
the code sets out that discretion can or should be applied. L&Gs method of calculation is 
based on the proportionate remedy set out by the ABI in the 2013 version of the code, 
which doesnt apply to this claim. And I dont think it was fair for L&G to use this method of 
calculation when the ABI has specified that the insurer will pay the claim in proportion to 
the premium that was actually charged in the 2019 code.Using that formula, I calculate L&G should in fact pay Mr C a total of £33,308.50 in fair and 
proportionate settlement of his claim. I acknowledge L&G says settling the claim in this way 
puts Mr C at an unfair advantage to other customers who havent made a 
misrepresentation. But I dont agree Mr C is better off in this instance, as he is receiving a 
lesser sum assured than the sum he applied for and believed he would be paid in the event 
of a claim. So, I think he has still suffered a detriment as a result of his misrepresentation.
Putting things right
L&G should pay Mr C a further £2,164.50 to bring the total settlement of his critical illness 
claim to £33,308.50.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay 
Mr C a further £2,164.50 to bring the total settlement of his critical illness claim to 
£33,308.50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman