DRN-2020656
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are unhappy with their tenants contents insurance policy, which they think 
was mis-sold to them by Bode Insurance Solutions Limited (Bode).
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a tenants contents insurance policy through an insurance broker, 
Bode. Mr B and Mrs B tried to make a claim on the insurance policy, which was, ultimately, 
declined. They complained to their insurer about this.
When Mr B and Mrs B tried to refer the complaint to this service, they were unable to do so 
because the insurer was based in the Channel Islands, which is not within our territorial 
jurisdiction.
Mr B and Mrs B said that Bode didnt tell them that the insurer was based in the Channel 
Islands and that they wouldnt have taken out the policy if they had known. They said Bode 
had mis-sold them the policy.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said the key terms and conditions were provided to Mr B and Mrs B, including that 
complaints about the insurer couldnt be referred to this service.
As Mr B and Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was also sold on a non-advised basis. This means that the seller isnt 
recommending that the consumer takes out the policy. It is up to the consumer to decide if 
the policy is suitable for them. During the sales process, the seller must provide enough 
information about the policy so that it is clear, fair and not misleading, in order for the 
consumer to make an informed choice about whether the policy is right for them. However, 
Im aware that there are some potentially untypical aspects about the sale of this policy.
Bode, which was trading under a different name at the time, has said that Mr B and Mrs B 
applied for the policy online. Mr B and Mrs B say that this isnt the case and that the letting 
agent passed on their details to Bode. I dont think that these two statements necessarily 
contradict each other. As Mr B and Mrs B say they didnt complete the online form 
themselves, it appears that, following a discussion, the letting agent might have done this on 
their behalf. However, whatever discussions they had with the letting agent, and the lettings 
agents actions, are outside the remit of this service and would need to be referred to ARLA/ 
Property Mark.
Nonetheless, I think this makes it less likely that Mr B and Mrs B were aware of the key 
terms and conditions of the policy at the point of sale. This means that they were also unlikely to be aware of any ombudsman schemes that the insurer was part of. However, in 
my view, this isnt Bodes fault, as it seems that a third party, the letting agent, might have 
filled out and submitted the application.
I should note that as the insurer is based in the Channel Islands, it is covered by a different 
Ombudsman Service, so I am unable to comment on the policy itself. Im also aware that Mr 
B and Mrs B are concerned about Bodes relationship with the other businesses in this case 
and about its practice of selling policies that are regulated outside of the UK. However, they 
would need to raise these concerns with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
As referred to above, Bode is regulated by the FCA. The FCAs regulations on how firms in 
the insurance business should conduct themselves say it must be clear how to complain 
about an insurer, including providing information on equivalent schemes where it isnt 
covered by this service.
I have read the policy documents that Mr B and Mrs B were provided with in 2017, 2018 and 
2019. In 2017, the policy summary said that the insurer did not participate in the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS). In 2018, I couldnt find any reference to Ombudsman 
schemes. In the 2019 policy documents, this gave the details of an equivalent ombudsman 
service that complaints could be referred to.
I asked Bode for evidence that when the policies were issued in 2017 and 2018, it had 
advised Mr B and Mrs B of the ombudsman scheme they could complain to about the 
insurer. Although Bode provided evidence of providing details of the relevant regulator, it 
didnt provide evidence that it told them the relevant ombudsman scheme.
On that basis, I am currently of the view that there is no evidence that Mr B and Mrs B were 
given the appropriate information. As a result, this means that, in my view, in 2017 and 2018, 
they were mis-sold the policies.
I then need to consider what this meant for Mr B and Mrs B. Im aware that at the centre of 
the issue for them is that their insurance claim was turned down, which was while the 2018 
policy was in place. However, the inclusion or otherwise of information about ombudsman 
schemes, was not relevant to why it was turned down. I also have no reason to think that 
having referral rights to a different ombudsman scheme disadvantaged Mr B and Mrs B. Mr 
B has also said that he has referred their complaint to the other ombudsman scheme, so it 
has not prevented Mr B and Mrs B from accessing the relevant scheme.
Nonetheless, Bode was required to provide the details of the equivalent scheme, which it 
seems to have failed to do on two occasions. Knowing their ombudsman referral rights did 
become relevant during the period in which the 2018 policy was in force. I am therefore 
currently minded to uphold this complaint and say that Bode must pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of not being advised of their referral right in 
the way that they should have been.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 July 2020.
Bode said it accepted my decision.
Mr B and Mrs B acknowledged that their complaint had been upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in line with my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Bode must pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of 
not being advised of their referral right in the way that they should have been.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld and that Bode Insurance Solutions Limited must:
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 compensation.
Pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B and Mrs B 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman