DRN-3636941
The complaint
Mr D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background of the complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide an 
overview of the key events here. 
Mr D had some works carried out to his car by a garage. When the vehicle was returned, 
there was an issue with it that was found to be caused by the level of oil. Mr D felt the 
garage had been negligent and contacted his motor insurance provider. 
His claim was being handled under the public liability section of his motor policy, as there 
was no incident involving impact to the vehicle. And the garages insurer was co-operating 
and had indicated it would make a payment.
Unfortunately, no payment was received so solicitors were instructed under Mr Ds motor 
legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The solicitors engaged with 
the garages insurers and in response to the potential for legal proceedings, the garages 
solicitors defended the claim setting out multiple reasons why they didnt think the garage 
were liable. 
At that point, Great Lakes asked the solicitors to conduct a merits assessment on the likely 
chances of Mr D being successful in his claim against the garage. And the solicitors advised 
they didnt think there were reasonable prospects of success  which is a requirement for 
cover under the policy. So Great Lakes declined the claim. 
Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. He 
said the solicitors werent suitably qualified and that he had a strong legal claim. But our 
investigator didnt agree. She was satisfied that Great Lakes were entitled to rely on the legal 
advice it had obtained.
As Mr D didnt accept this, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a great deal of information regarding his complaint. Id like to reassure 
him that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less 
detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told us.  
Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail he would like, in order to reach what 
I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy say that a claim must have reasonable prospects 
of success which are defined as being a greater than 50% chance of winning. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Great Lakes obtained a merits assessment from its panel firm of solicitors, who 
were of the opinion that the claim didnt have greater than 50% chance of winning. I 
appreciate Mr Ds concerns over the advice obtained. But Im satisfied its properly written 
and well-reasoned, and its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Great Lakes couldnt rely on it. 
Rather, its up to Mr D to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own 
cost, if he wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Great Lakes 
should reconsider the claim. I understand Mr D has engaged with a solicitor who believes he 
has a strong case, so Id suggest that he ask them to provide a merits assessment on the 
prospects of success and that this be passed to Great Lakes directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman