DRN-3807550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) over charged them at 
each renewal of their buildings insurance policy for a period of around five years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O say they recently moved to a new house and as their policy was due to renew
Mr O called St Andrews to discuss their premiums. He says the person he spoke with
acknowledged they had been overcharged by well over £5,000.
Mr and Mrs O say they want St Andrews to refund a minimum of £5,000 in overcharged
premiums. In addition, they want £2,000 for their expenses and compensation due to the
stress they have been caused.
St Andrews says the policy premiums have been calculated correctly. It says its
underwriting criteria is confidential so it cant provide an exact explanation. But some of the
factors include changes in its view of risk and administrative costs. St Andrews says the
cheaper policy Mr and Mrs O have found offers different cover and features. It also benefits
from new business incentives that can include an introductory discount.
St Andrews says Mr and Mrs O were sent renewal information each year, which they didnt
have to accept. It doesnt think a premium refund is warranted.
Mr and Mrs O referred their complaint to our service as they thought St Andrews response
was unfair. Our investigator upheld their complaint. He thought that Mr and Mrs O should be
considered inert customers since 2014. This means that as they hadnt interacted with St
Andrews it was unfair of it to take advantage and increase its premiums each year. He also
didnt think it had provided a reasonable explanation as to why the premiums had increased.
Our investigator thought it was fair for St Andrews to refund any increases in premiums from
2014 along with 8% simple interest.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was enough, and St Andrews didnt think a refund was due.
Because the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered,
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk.
Its not our role to dictate to an insurer what it should charge customers for an insurance
policy. The price it charges, and the methods used to calculate its premiums are a
commercial decision for it to make.
So, we wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk,
the risk assessments it makes  or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But we will
consider whether the insurer treated its customer fairly in the same way it would other
customers, which is consistent with its general approach to pricing.
When considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint, I have thought about whether its reasonable
for them to be considered inert customers. Thats to say a customer who doesnt engage
with their insurer but continues to pay increasing premiums over the years. We expect
insurers to treat customers fairly and not to take advantage of a customers loyalty, because
of a lack of engagement.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs O whether they spoke to St Andrews at any of the
renewals and if they had tried to negotiate lower premiums. They responded to say they had
spoken to St Andrews regularly to attempt to bring premiums down. They say they do this,
with all of our providers yearly.
This shows that Mr and Mrs O werent inert customers. They were actively engaged with St
Andrews and had attempted to lower the premiums theyd been quoted. We asked St
Andrews for further information to show that it had treated Mr and Mrs O fairly regarding the
premiums it had charged.
I cant share this information with Mr and Mrs O as it relates to St Andrews underwriting
process, which is confidential. But I have considered this information in detail.
There are a number of factors that impact on the level at which an insurer sets its premiums.
Claims is one factor. A change in its approach to risk could be another reason why an
insurer might legitimately increase its premiums. In order to be satisfied that St Andrews has
treated Mr and Mrs O fairly, we expect it to be able to explain the reasons behind the
premium increases.
The records provided date back to 2010. St Andrews says Mr and Mrs O registered a claim
in August 2010 for an escape of water. In the 2017/2018 policy year a further claim was
made for an accidental loss. It says Mr and Mrs Os no claims discount wasnt affected by
this, as they chose to pay to protect it. The business also refers to changes of address that
were advised in 2010 and again in 2021.
St Andrews explains that it has steps in place to make sure premiums dont increase
excessively when a policyholder has been with it for several years. I cant give the full details
of this due to commercial confidentiality but, briefly, St Andrews applies a model to all its
policies which sets the price based on a number of factors applied consistently to all
customers. We refer to this as a target price and our service generally accepts its a fair
approach.
Ive looked at the information St Andrews supplied to show what Mr and Mrs O paid over the
years.
From the calculations it has provided the amount Mr and Mrs O paid for their premiums at
each renewal was in line with St Andrews underwriting criteria. They have paid below the
target price for each year. Again, I cant share this information, but Im satisfied it shows that
Mr and Mrs O werent treated unfairly or any differently to the way any other customer would
be treated by St Andrews in the same circumstances.Having considered all of this, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O, I dont think St
Andrews has treated them unfairly. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further to resolve
their complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
St Andrews responded to say it had no further comments or information. 
Mr O responded to say he thought my provisional decision was unfair. He says St Andrews 
has lied and no claim for an escape of water had been made. He says the business should 
provide the recording of the phone call when its agent agreed their premium had been too 
high. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews hasnt provided anything further for me to consider. 
Mr O says St Andrews has lied and provided untrue information. But he hasnt supplied 
anything further to support his comments. Im not persuaded to change my decision based 
on this. 
I acknowledge Mr Os reference to a phone call with St Andrews when he first raised his 
concerns about the premiums it had charged. I dont dispute his recollection of his 
discussion with this agent. But St Andrews has provided underwriting information that 
demonstrates it didnt treat him unfairly with respect to the cost of its policy. 
Mr O says he didnt make an escape of water claim back in 2010. This is at odds with the 
information supplied by St Andrews. Ive thought about this, but I dont think Mr O has shown 
that he has been charged unfairly. The business has demonstrated that Mr and Mrs O paid 
below its target pricing for the entirety of their policy. Because of this Im not persuaded to 
change my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman