DRN-4268192
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions that he says he didnt make
or otherwise authorise. He is also unhappy that they closed his account.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In March 2023 Mr U disputed transactions
made on his Santander account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Santander declined to provide a refund and ultimately went on to close Mr Us account.
Mr U complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Santander had acted fairly in
the decisions theyd made. Mr U disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his
complaint.
In December 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as some of
my reasons are different, Im issuing this provisional decision to give both sides a further
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
On 22 March 2023 Mr U contacted Santander and said that his card had been taken a
couple of days earlier and that there were transactions on his account that he didnt
recognise. Santanders complaint response says that the disputed transactions took place
between 20 and 22 March 2023 and totalled around £1,200.
Mr U has said different things at different times in relation to his complaint. One example of
this is that he initially reported all the account activity from 20 March 2023 onwards as
fraudulent and more recently he told our Investigator that he hadnt made any of the 
payments on his Santander account since 2022. Mr U also told our Investigator that hed
reported the theft of his card to Santander within an hour of it happening. But his initial report
of this to Santander was on 22 March, two days after he says his card was taken.
Mr U has also described aspects of his health along with medication he takes which could in
part account for the inconsistencies in what hes said has happened. The symptoms Mr U
has listed include that he has problems with cognition, explaining his feelings and thoughts
and remembering things. For these reasons, it is difficult for me to place a lot of weight on
Mr Us testimony as reliable and credible evidence. Although I accept that this is likely due to
his medical condition, rather than him being dishonest.
As such, Ive looked to the other evidence that is available. Generally speaking, Santander
should only hold Mr U liable for payments hes authorised. For a payment to be authorised it
must be correctly authenticated (through the agreed process for making a payment) and
Mr U must have consented to the payment being made. Santander have provided evidence
to support that many of the payments in dispute were correctly authenticated and on
occasions this was through Chip and PIN. So, I think its most likely the payments were all
correctly authenticated. But I must still consider whether Santander concluding Mr U
consented to the payments was fair and reasonable.
Most of the disputed payments were to W, a merchant who offer gambling services that
Mr U had previously paid. Of particular note are some calls that took place on 20 March
2023 between Mr U and Santander. In one of these calls, Mr U was asking about a credit he
was due to receive back into his account from W. And the evidence from Santander supports
that the credit was authorised at 11.30am the same day. Mr U clearly states during this call
that he was in possession of his card when the credit was processed through Ws terminal.
He doesnt state that his card had been stolen and several of the disputed transactions
(which are payments to W) took place earlier the same day. There is also a further call on 20
March 2023 in which Mr U is chasing an outcome to a previous disputed transactions claim
hed made, but again he doesnt mention that his card had been taken. I find the call
recordings to be persuasive evidence. And these indicate Mr U was still in possession of his
card at the time at least some of the disputed transactions were authorised.
Beyond this Ive also thought about the way in which the disputed transactions took place
and the pattern of spending. Most of it was with W (a merchant Mr U evidently had an
existing relationship with) and other payments were for small amounts in shops local to the
area where Mr U lives. One example of this being a payment for £0.65 in a convenience
store, at a time when the account balance was several hundred pounds. This doesnt match
the type of account activity typically seen when there is unauthorised account use. Where a
dishonest third party has obtained someones card and PIN they will commonly look to
deplete the funds quickly to maximise their gain. Taking all the evidence into consideration, I
dont think the conclusion Santander reached, which is that Mr U most likely consented to
the payments he is disputing was unreasonable. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly when
declining to provide a refund.
Ive also reviewed the terms of Mr Us account; these allow certain circumstances in which
Santander may decide to end their relationship with a customer. Specifically they say:
It is a condition that you do not act abusively, offensively or violently towards our staff And
if any of the above applies, you will be in breach of these Conditions and we can close your
account on giving you immediate notice
During several of the calls Ive listened to, Mr U was abusive towards Santanders agents
and said some very unpleasant things. Following this, Santander took the decision to close 
his account. At the time Santander took that decision, Mr U had already informed them of his
medical condition  this is supported by Santanders own records.
Given this, I would have expected Santander to have treated Mr U as potentially vulnerable
and to have asked him how his medical condition impacts him and the way in which he
communicates. I cant see that this happened. Had Santander asked, I think its likely Mr U
would have shared his medical condition in the same way that he did with our service. And
whilst Santander are entitled to (and should) protect their staff from abusive conduct, I think
they could have explored other options such as making adjustments regarding how they
would communicate with Mr U, before taking the decision to close his account.
So, Ive gone on to think about the impact of Santanders actions on Mr U and whether I
think they need to do anything more to put things right. And in the circumstances of this
complaint, Im not persuaded that there has been an impact on Mr U such that Santander
need to do more. When reporting the loss of his card and the disputed transactions, Mr U
declined Santanders offer to reissue a new debit card. He said this was because heintended to close his account as soon as his disputed transactions had been investigated.
So, I think its likely Mr U would have followed through with what he said he intended to do.
And as a result of this, even though I think Santander ought to have asked more questions
and explored other options as a result of Mr Us medical condition, I dont think he has ended
up in a meaningfully different position. Because of this, Im not intending to direct that
Santander needs to do more to resolve this complaint.
Both Santander and Mr U responded to my provisional decision to say that they had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or information for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman