DRN-2579687
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that London Capital Credit Union Limited (LCCU) withdrew its loan 
offer to her and says it hasnt treated her fairly given her vulnerabilities. LCCU says that it 
withdrew its loan offer because Miss W exhibited behaviour which was unacceptable 
towards its staff.
What happened
Miss W applied for a loan for £700 with LCCU via the members secure area of its website. 
Her application was approved and uploaded to be signed for electronically. In error, rather 
than signing the document electronically, it appears that Miss W sent the required forms as 
an attachment to an email and the quality wasnt clear. Because of this, LCCU couldnt 
proceed with her application. 
LCCU contacted Miss W and asked her to come to their offices so that Miss W could sign 
the form in person. Miss W attended and signed the form but ended up leaving the office 
with some of the documentation relating to the standing order for repayments, required to 
process her application. A representative from LCCU telephoned Miss W and asked her to 
return to the office with the paperwork. It says that in this call, Miss W swore at the 
representative. LCCU says that because of Miss Ws attitude and behaviour it was decided 
to withdraw the loan offer.
Miss W says that she visited LCCUs office and made it clear that she was going through a 
difficult time as she was a carer for her father who had been hospitalised and she was in a 
very anxious state. She denies swearing at the LCCU staff and doesnt know why her loan 
offer was withdrawn. Miss W also says that she feels that she has been treated adversely by 
LCCU because of her race.
An investigator here considered the complaint and decided that LCCU could have done 
more to support Miss W given her disabilities and fragile mental health. She upheld the case 
and awarded £300 as compensation for distress caused to Miss W. 
LCCU disagreed with this. It said that, amongst other things:
it wasnt aware of Miss Ws vulnerabilities regarding her mental and physical health 
nor that she was a carer
it wasnt obliged to take the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) vulnerable 
consumer guidance into account when dealing with Miss W because this wasnt in 
effect at the time the loan application was withdrawn
it withdrew the loan because the agreement hadnt been executed properly and this 
is in accordance with the FCAs guidelines
its likely its representative suggested Miss W come into branch but this wouldnt 
have been insisted on and if Miss W had flatly said that she wouldnt come in they 
would have posted the application to her for signing
if they asked questions about whether a customer was vulnerable, theyd probably be 
in breach of the Data Protection Act
it doesnt see the request for Miss W to come to their office as an unreasonable one.
As LCCU disagreed with the outcome reached, the case has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that whilst I have read all of the available evidence in this case 
 including the detailed representations of both parties - I have kept my decision to the 
material points which I consider to be relevant. I thank both parties for all the evidence 
theyve submitted in this case. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint overall, 
largely for the same reasons set out by our investigator in her assessment. Id like to explain 
why Ive reached this conclusion. 
At the outset, Id like to express my sincere sympathy for everything that Miss W has been 
through with her health. Its clear to me from reading her testimony and all of the evidence in 
this case, that it has taken a lot for her mentally and emotionally to pursue this complaint. 
Im not going to ask LCCU to reconsider Miss Ws loan application because Im not 
empowered to do this. However, I am empowered to consider how LCCU treated Miss W 
and whether this feels fair and reasonable. 
LCCU has said that Miss W has been a customer since 2014. It further confirmed that whilst 
she had had some missed payments in the past, shes always repaid her loans and has a 
good repayment history. So, it would seem that she was a valued customer with some 
history with the business. 
With regard to the swearing incident, LCCU says that it doesnt record telephone calls and 
has submitted a copy of its contact notes from the time where the specific language it says 
that Miss W used, is recorded. On balance, Im minded to believe that Miss W did swear at 
the representative over the telephone. There is some confusion in LCCUs representations 
to this service as to why the loan offer was withdrawn; on the one hand it has said that its 
because the loan documentation wasnt executed as required and on the other, its said that 
its because Miss W swore at one of its representatives. We asked for a copy of LCCUs 
unreasonable behaviour policy but it told us that it didnt have one. Instead, it submitted its 
Equity and Diversity policy  which isnt the same thing. And so, Ive not been able to see 
whether Miss W was treated in the same way as another consumer would be, had they 
behaved in the same way towards a member of staff. Im not saying that unreasonable 
behaviour towards staff should be tolerated and I appreciate the concerns LCCU has 
expressed about the impact of this on staff morale; what Im saying is that I cant see 
whether the steps taken in Miss Ws case are those that would be employed in any other 
similar case because LCCU hasnt been able to demonstrate what those steps are. Miss W 
says that she feels shes been treated adversely because of her race. I can see how the way 
events have unfolded may have led her to perceive this. 
LCCU says that it wasnt aware of Miss Ws vulnerabilities and challenges with her mental 
health, until this service brought it to their attention. I thank Miss W for sharing two 
independent sources of evidence describing, amongst other things, the extent and impact on 
Miss W of her anxiety, depression and suicidal ideations. The evidence  shared with LCCU 
 also talks about Miss Ws physical disabilities (requiring walking with a stick and wearing 
an adapted foot brace) and the impact of this on her. LCCU responded to this evidence to 
say that it asked the three staff members who were present at the time Miss W visited their office about Miss Ws physical disability and none of them could recall her walking with a 
stick; it also couldnt confirm whether or not Miss W was wearing a foot brace that day. 
LCCU said that it was only made aware of how anxious Miss W was feeling during the 
branch meeting as she expressed how upset she was that her father was unwell and 
hospitalised. Ive considered what both parties have said and on balance, Ive no reason to 
doubt that Miss W has a physical disability requiring the use of a stick and foot brace and 
that its more likely than not that she was using these the day she visited the branch. 
Moreover, even if LCCU werent aware of Miss Ws other vulnerabilities and mental health 
challenges at the time of the loan application, Im empowered to consider what actions it 
took to support her once it was on notice.
Ive noted that LCCU said that it wasnt obliged to take the FCAs vulnerable consumer 
guidance into account when dealing with Miss W because this wasnt in effect at the time the 
loan application was withdrawn  and Id disagree with this. The FCA guidance consolidates 
what was already considered to be good industry practice when dealing with vulnerable 
consumers and I further disagree that by making enquiries as to whether a customer needed 
any further support, it would be in breach of data protection legislation. Miss W has been 
open about the challenges she experiences and I consider that if the right questions were 
asked, shed likely have given this same detail to LCCUs representative. 
LCCU says that its likely its representative suggested Miss W come into branch but this 
wouldnt have been insisted on and if Miss W had flatly said that she wouldnt come in they 
would have posted the application to her for signing. Ultimately, LCCU was the expert in the 
transaction here and Im persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that if other alternatives to a 
branch visit were presented to Miss W, such as positing the paperwork to her, shed have 
requested this. And so I consider it more likely than not, that Miss W felt she had to make a 
branch visit in order for the loan paperwork to be executed correctly and the monies 
released. Ive borne in mind the evidence submitted from the mental health charities about 
the anxiety Miss W experiences when making journeys, in reaching this conclusion. 
It is unfortunate that Miss Ws anxiety was compounded by being asked to revisit the branch 
because shed taken with her one of the standing order forms required to complete her loan 
application. From what Ive understood about Miss Ws conditions, I can see how this would 
have caused her significant distress. Moreover, I would have expected the branch 
representative to have checked they had everything they needed to process the application 
before Miss W left, especially as LCCU has said that Miss W expressed how distressed and 
anxious she was at that meeting. And so, whilst Im not endorsing Miss W swearing at the 
representative when they called her to make another trip to the branch, I can empathise and 
understand why Miss W may have reacted in this way. 
Ive noted that Miss W contacted LCCU to complain about how shed been treated. In 
February 2020, LCCU responded to say that the loan offer was withdrawn because of her 
behaviour. It also said that it would make a point of reminding staff how to handle customers 
who are stressed and finding it difficult to use our systems. I note that no referral rights to 
this service were given at this point as I consider they ought to have been. Miss W 
responded to explain her stress being caused by her father being unwell and her having to 
make multiple visits to the branch without acknowledgement of the effort shed gone to, to 
ensure things were completed correctly. She goes on to say that as a POC (person of 
colour) she felt dismissed and the staff error in not checking whether the correct papers 
were retained felt grossly unfair. In a further email the following day, Miss W again talks 
about being marginalised, being a carer for her father with dementia and having been 
diagnosed with depression for many years. She received a response from LCCU two days 
later which said: I gave you my final response in my email of the 24th of February. I have nothing to add to that and will not enter into further correspondence in the matter. None of 
the additional points Miss W raised were addressed nor acknowledged.
Whilst I acknowledge that this interaction was after the loan had been withdrawn, it is 
ancillary to Miss Ws overall complaint and I am therefore empowered to take it into account. 
I do not consider that LCCU has been receptive to its customers needs and challenges from 
the point at which she submitted her loan application nor has it made any attempt to 
understand these so it can carve out a way with Miss W to continue to best serve her moving 
forwards. Moreover, I consider that it ought to be doing so and has failed in its duty to treat 
its customer fairly as a result.
Putting things right
LCCU hasnt accepted that it provided Miss W with poor customer service. Miss W considers 
that what LCCU has done actually goes beyond poor customer service. Shes told us that 
she feels discriminated against. I can understand why Miss W feels this way, and I do think 
LCCU hasnt quite grasped how its actions have made Miss W feel.  And so, for the various 
reasons stated above, Im making an award for distress and inconvenience caused to her. In 
the circumstances, I consider a payment of £300 is warranted for the way in which Miss W 
has been treated.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about London Capital Credit Union Limited  and I therefore require it to:
Pay Miss W £300 for distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman