DRN-2166978
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline her claim under her employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C worked in a sedentary role and was a member of her employers group income 
protection insurance policy, held with Unum. The policy would pay benefit, after a deferred 
period of 26 weeks, in the event that Mrs C became unable to perform her occupation due to 
illness or injury.
In April 2019, Mrs C stopped working due to symptoms of anxiety with depression. She 
remained off work and additionally started developing other health problems, including high 
blood pressure and gastric issues. She made a claim under the policy.
In October 2019, Unum declined the claim. It considered the medical evidence indicated that 
Mrs Cs symptoms of anxiety were directly linked to challenges she faced in her home life 
and did not support that she was suffering from a medical condition which would prevent her 
from carrying out her role.
Mrs C appealed against Unums decision but in December 2019, after reviewing updated 
evidence, Unum continued to decline the claim.
In January 2020, Mrs C complained to Unum. Later that month she returned to work.
In February 2020, Unum issued a final response letter not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. It 
believed that Mrs Cs various health problems were not of such severity that they should 
have prevented her from performing her occupation throughout the deferred period.
Mrs C was unhappy at Unums response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should be upheld. She 
considered the evidence showed that Mrs C had been unfit to work throughout the deferred 
period and beyond. She thought Unum should accept the claim and pay the benefit which 
was owed, plus interest. She further thought that it should pay Mrs C £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused by unfairly declining her claim.
Unum didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that Mrs C had not properly been 
diagnosed with anxiety and depression. It considered that neither her high blood pressure 
nor her gastric issues should have caused her to be absent from work for a long period. It 
said that occupational health reports, to which the investigator had referred in her view, were 
simply telephone assessments which were based on Mrs Cs own reporting and without any 
examination. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be eligible for benefit, Mrs C needs to show she was medically unable to perform her 
occupation throughout the deferred period, which ran from April 2019 to October 2019.
The medical evidence consists largely of the GP records and the occupational health reports 
produced for her employer.
The evidence shows that Mrs C visited her GP in April 2019 saying she was struggling with 
her mood and was feeling stressed. Mrs C cited issues in her home life, including difficulties 
with her young son, as possible causes of this. Her GP prescribed her some medication and, 
a few days later, agreed to certify her as unfit to work.
She continued to see her GP on a regular basis and continued to be signed off work 
because of anxiety with depression. Her GP changed her medication from time to time and 
there was some fluctuation in her condition; for instance, in July 2019 she reported that her 
depression had settled though she was still feeling anxious but in August 2019 she reported 
that she had been feeling really low in mood and had been tearful. It was around this time 
that she also started reporting gastric problems. In July 2019, her GP wrote to her 
employers occupational health provider and said that Mrs C was making slow progress in 
the improvement of her mental health and it was difficult to predict when she would be fit to 
return to work. 
During September and October 2019, beyond the end of the deferred period, Mrs C 
continued to report feeling stressed and also fatigued. Meanwhile, investigations were 
undertaken into her gastric symptoms. In the referral letter of October 2019, her GP said: 
Her bowels currently are taking over her life in that she is constantly going to the toilet and 
feeling so uncomfortable from the bloating.
Throughout this period, Mrs C was undergoing regular telephone assessments by her 
employers occupational health provider. The occupational health adviser agreed with her 
GP that Mrs C was unfit to work during this period due to her anxiety and related symptoms.
I consider that the evidence supports that Mrs C was medically unfit to work throughout the 
deferred period. As our investigator pointed out, she was deemed unfit for work by two 
different doctors at her GP surgery as well as in multiple occupational health assessments. 
She was medicated for both anxiety and depression throughout this period and was 
eventually referred for counselling. She reported symptoms such as fatigue, sleep problems 
and inability to concentrate which would understandably impact on her ability to perform her 
occupation.
Unum has objected that Mrs C was not properly diagnosed with anxiety and depression. 
However, while such a diagnosis may have helped her claim, I dont think the lack of it is 
sufficient reason to decline the claim. The important point is that Mrs C was suffering from 
symptoms of anxiety and depression which prevented her from working.
Unum has cast doubt on the reliability of the occupational health assessments, noting that 
these were simply telephone assessments which were based on Mrs Cs own reporting. 
However, this is not strictly true because the occupational health provider, unlike Unum, 
actually asked the GP on occasion to provide specific reports on Mrs Cs condition and her 
progress. These GP reports were used by the occupational health adviser to help form their 
opinion. I therefore see no reason to disregard the occupational health advisers reports. 
Unum has also said that Mrs Cs other health issues which arose while she was absent from work should not have caused a prolonged absence. I agree that her high blood pressure 
should not necessarily have caused her to be absent from work. Her gastric problems may 
not have been expected to cause a prolonged absence. But that is not a reason to decline 
the claim because, as described above, Mrs Cs anxiety-related symptoms alone were 
sufficient to render her incapacitated throughout the deferred period and beyond. Though 
clearly, by the end of the deferred period, her gastric problems were also a significant factor.
In November 2019, Mrs C reported that she felt she was starting to get back to normal. She 
was seen by her community mental health team and was referred for counselling. She said 
that, at this stage, it was more her bowel problems rather than her mental health which was 
preventing her from returning to work. She was eventually diagnosed with IBS and was 
recommended to take medication which helped with her gastric symptoms.
By December 2019, as both her mental state and her gastric symptoms were improving, 
Mrs C was preparing for a return to work. She eventually achieved this in January 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied the evidence shows that Mrs C was prevented from working throughout 
the deferred period due to her poor mental state. Her GP was gradually able to bring about 
an improvement through medication and once her mental health had been restored to a 
satisfactory level, and her gastric symptoms were no longer debilitating, she returned to 
work. 
I therefore consider that Unum should accept Mrs Cs claim and pay the benefit which is 
due, plus interest. I further consider that Unums unfair decision to decline the claim will have 
caused Mrs C a degree of distress and inconvenience for which it should pay her £250 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Unum Ltd to do the following:
accept Mrs Cs claim and pay benefit in accordance with the policys remaining terms 
and conditions from the end of the deferred period to the date she returned to work;
add interest to this at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each benefit 
payment should have been paid to the date of settlement;* and
pay Mrs C £250 compensation.
* If Unum Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman