DRN-3442981
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Startline Motor 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2021 Miss B acquired a used car via a 60-month hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. The car was six years old and had a mileage of 54,332.
Within a short time, Miss B experienced problems with the cars gearbox and with the boot 
not opening. Miss B also says there was a chip in the windscreen which had been present 
since shed collected the car from the supplying dealer.
In July 2021 the car was taken to a garage to be repaired and Miss B says it was thought 
that the issue with gearbox had been sorted. Unfortunately, only a few days later the car 
broke down as it became stuck in second gear. Miss B took the car back to the repairing 
garage who diagnosed it as having engine misfires and an internal gearbox failure that 
required it to be stripped for investigation. It provided Miss B with a diagnostic report. Miss B 
says that at this time the engine management light was also illuminated.
Miss B contacted the supplying dealer and notified it of the problems with the car. She 
explained that the garage that had inspected the car had advised that the warranty which 
had come with the car may not cover the costs of these repairs. Miss B said she would be 
happy to keep the car but would reject it if necessary.
The supplying dealer agreed to take the car back for repair and Miss B says she was given a 
date in August 2021 by which it would be fixed. However, the car wasnt repaired as the 
dealer said the fault couldnt be diagnosed. The car was returned to Miss B and she says 
that the supplying dealer agreed she could reject it during a phone call. 
The broker who had arranged the hire purchase agreement was contacted, but Miss B says 
the supplying dealer then said the car couldnt be rejected as there wasnt any fault with it. 
The broker opened a complaint, but said if Miss B was unhappy at the progress or outcome 
of her complaint she could raise the matter with Startline as it was the finance company for 
the car.
Less than two weeks later the car broke down for a second time due to it again getting stuck 
in second gear. The broker arranged for the car to be independently inspected. Miss B says 
that following the inspection the independent engineer advised her not to drive the car. Miss 
B didnt receive a copy of this report and was told by the broker that it had been sent to the 
supplying dealer and that the dealer had the right to repair the car. It was agreed the car 
would be collected from Miss B.
Although it was agreed that the car would be collected at the beginning of September 2021 it 
wasnt actually collected until around two weeks later. In the meantime, Miss B complained 
to Startline.
In October 2021 Miss B was emailed by the supplying dealer saying that a third garage was 
investigating the issues she had been having with the gearbox but, as yet, no fault had been 
found. It said it had fitted a new coil pack.
Due to the length of time it was taking to repair the car Miss B contacted Startline and asked 
to reject it. She said she had been unable to use the car for 10 weeks and the supplying 
dealer had had it for over three weeks.
Miss B says she had no response and wasnt able to obtain information from the supplying 
dealer either. She sent Startline an email repeating that she wished to reject the car.
Miss B says the car was returned to her at the start of November 2021, she queried with the 
supplying dealer what repair work had been carried out to the gearbox as it hadnt supplied 
her with any repair invoice for that part.
Miss B says that the supplying dealer hadnt fixed the issue with the gearbox as it continued 
to get stuck in gear intermittently.
Miss B made another complaint about the quality of the car to Startline at the end of 
November 2021. Startline upheld her complaint but said the repairs had been completed. 
and she therefore now didnt have a right to reject the car.
Miss B complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that Miss Bs complaint 
should be upheld. 
Our investigator said that although the misfire had been repaired, no repairs to the gearbox 
had been undertaken as the supplying dealer said no fault could be found with it. However, 
Miss B said that the problem had persisted and had even provided video-evidence of that. 
Our investigator said on the evidence that had been provided, she was satisfied that the car 
had either been developing a fault or been faulty at the point of supply. And that it wasnt 
therefore of satisfactory quality.
As the repairs undertaken by the supplying dealer didnt appear to have been successful, 
our investigator said that it would be fair for Miss B to now reject the car and the agreement 
to be cancelled and her deposit returned. She also said that as Miss B hadnt been able to 
use the car since the inspection date in August 2021 it would be fair for Miss B to be 
reimbursed any monthly payment made from that date.
Due to not being able to use the faulty car, our investigator said Miss B had also incurred 
additional expenses such as insurance costs for the car and arranging alternative transport. 
She had also repaired the chip in the windscreen. She said the total costs incurred 
amounted to £605 and should be reimbursed by Startline.
Finally, our investigator said that due to Miss Bs personal circumstances dealing with the 
faulty car had had a significant impact on her and so £350 compensation was fair for the 
distress and inconvenience that had been caused. 
Startline disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said while it appreciated Miss Bs 
frustration at the length of time the repairs had taken, no repair could have a definitive time 
line because the age, use of and condition of the car would all play a part in the fix being 
effective. Startline also said that in line with the agreements terms and conditions it wasnt 
liable for any associated costs for Miss B while she was without the car. It said the car had 
been repaired.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complain has been passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
information is missing or contradictory then I must consider what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened in the circumstances.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss B is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Startline is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was six years old and had a mileage of 54,332. So, some issues of 
maintenance and repair would be expected over time. However, Ive seen that Miss B 
experienced problems with the cars gearbox within the first few weeks of acquiring it. She 
has supplied a diagnostic report from a garage that sets out the car is suffering from 
misfires and an internal gearbox fault.
Ive also seen that the car was inspected by an independent engineer and a copy of that 
report has now been provided to me. This report states that faults were found with the 
vehicle which would have been present from the point of supply and were the 
responsibility of the retailer. The independent engineer noted the engine misfiring and that 
the car crunched when placed into reverse gear. They said there was a gearbox fault 
present.
Following this report, the supplying dealer agreed to repair the car. Ive seen that the 
supplying dealer had the car for around one month before returning it to Miss B in 
November. Startline says the car was repaired but Miss B says the problem with the 
gearbox remains and it continues to intermittently become stuck in gear. She has 
provided a short video that shows the fault occurring.
Looking at the invoice repairs from the supplying dealer, I cant see that any repairs were 
carried out on the gearbox. Sparkplugs and a coil were fitted which appear to have fixed 
the misfiring issue so there were some repairs carried out, but no work undertaken to the 
gearbox. Ive seen an email sent by the supplying dealer to Miss B saying that despite 
three garages investigating the car no issue with the gearbox could be found. 
But I dont know the extent of any investigations or whether the gearbox was stripped as 
recommended in the diagnostic report so I dont know why no fault could be found. Miss B 
has been consistent in describing the fault with the gearbox and has also said that it was 
intermittent. Ive also seen that both the diagnostic report from July 2021 and the independent report from August 2021 set out a fault is present. Taking the evidence into 
account Im satisfied that there is a fault with the gearbox and that this was present when 
the car was supplied to Miss B. The car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I accept that where faults are found with a car then the retailer should have an opportunity 
to repair first. And I think its reasonable to say here that the retailer has had that 
opportunity but the fault with the gearbox remains. Startline has said that repairs cant 
have definitive timescales so it would be unfair to criticise how long the car was with the 
supplying dealer. But under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 repairs must be undertaken in 
a reasonable time so I disagree this isnt something I can take into account. In any event, 
despite the car being with the supplying dealer for over three weeks, the fault with the 
gearbox wasnt fixed.
I think its fair for Miss D to now reject the car and for the agreement to end with nothing 
further to pay. Miss Ds deposit should be reimbursed to her.
Miss B has only driven around 2,000 miles in the car and says she was advised in August 
2021 not to use it by the independent engineer. While that advice isnt contained in their 
report, I dont think Miss B is mistaken about being told that. I also think that in light of the 
car having broken down twice and the intermittent fault of getting stuck in a low gear that 
it isnt surprising Miss D didnt feel safe driving it. I agree with the view of our investigator 
that it would be fair for Startline to reimburse any payments she has made under the 
agreement since August 2021 to reflect her inability to use the car.
Startline says it isnt liable for any costs incurred for periods Miss B was without the car. It 
says this is set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement. But, as the car wasnt of 
satisfactory condition at the point of its supply to Miss B then I think its unfair she isnt 
reimbursed for having to pay unexpected additional travel costs or the costs of keeping 
the car insured when she wasnt able to use it. Finally, I think its fair she is reimbursed for 
the repair to the windscreen that she paid for as Ive seen that chip had been present 
when she collected the car from the supplying dealer. This amounts to a total of £602.33 
to be repaid to Miss B by Startline.
Miss B has explained why, due to health problems, the car was so important to her and 
the impact it has had on her in having to deal with the faulty car. Ive also seen that she 
has had to repeatedly chase about having the car collected for the repairs and then 
afterwards for information about what was happening with the car. The supplying dealer 
had the car for around a month while repairs were to be carried out and then returned the 
car with the same fault with its gearbox. Again, I agree with our investigator that 
compensation here is warranted and looking at the impact on Miss B I think £350 is fair 
and reasonable.
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Startline to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss Bs deposit of £300 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of payment.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss B.Reimburse all payments made by Miss B under the agreement after August 2021. 
Tax is to be added to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of collection.
Reimburse Miss B the amount of £602.33 which she has incurred paying for 
alternative transport, keeping the car insured though she was unable to use it and 
fixing the chip in the windscreen. Tax is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate 
of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of payment.
Pay Miss B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her having to deal 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Im asking Startline Motor 
Finance Limited to do the following:
 End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss Bs deposit of £300 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of payment.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss B.
Reimburse all payments made by Miss B under the agreement after August 2021. 
Tax is to be added to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of collection.
Reimburse Miss B the amount of £602.33 which she has incurred paying for 
alternative transport, keeping the car insured though she was unable to use it and 
fixing the chip in the windscreen. Tax is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate 
of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of payment.
Pay Miss B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her having to deal 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman