DRN-3414601
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) didnt reimburse her in full after she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In November 2020 Miss G was called by a scammer who asked to speak to her mother. 
Miss G explained they were speaking to her daughter  the number had previously belonged 
to her mother. The scammer then told Miss G she was speaking to HMRC and they were 
calling as she owed a substantial amount for outstanding council tax bills. 
She says the scammer asked her to search the number they were calling from online to 
prove it was an official HMRC number, which was the same except for the country code.
Miss G told the scammers she was a university student and had filled out the necessary 
forms to register as exempt from paying council tax. The scammer asked her for proof and 
she sent, via Whatsapp, a copy of a letter confirming her university ID number and other 
details.
Over a period of approximately 20 minutes, Miss sent the scammers three payments for 
£997, £988 and £950. She said after the initial transfer for the outstanding council tax the 
scammer told her she had to pay various fines and fees for the initial amount being overdue. 
She also says she was told around £2,000 would be refunded to her within 24 hours. The 
scammers asked for a fourth payment and Miss G spoke to her housemate to ask for money 
at which point the scam was uncovered. 
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
Metro Bank says one of those exceptions applies in this case. It accepts it didnt provide 
adequate warnings to Miss G at the time of payment and so agreed to refund her 50% of her 
loss. But, it felt Miss G was partly responsible for the loss as she reasonably couldve 
identified the call was a scammer. It said:
The scammer had initially called to speak to a different person
HMRC is aware of the scam and has widely publicised it
HMRC wouldnt use Whatsapp to communicate with its customers and a request to 
do so shouldve alerted Miss G to a problem
Miss G was aware she was exempt from paying council tax 
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and said that:
Metro Bank was liable for refunding Miss G unless it was able to establish that she 
had failed to meet her requisite level or care, either by ignoring an effective warning 
in relation to the payment being made or she made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing what shed been told by the scammers.
Metro Bank accepted it didnt provide any effective warnings in this case and so Miss 
G hadnt ignored these warnings and I agreed with this. But having considered 
whether Miss G had a reasonable basis for believing what shed been told by 
scammers I didnt think she did. 
The scammers initially called to speak to a different person and offered no cover 
story of why they then suddenly had Ms Gs details when she informed them of who 
she was. 
They said they were calling from HMRC in relation to council tax, but had no other 
personal information about her that might reasonably lead her to believe she was 
speaking to HMRC or her local council such as her address or the address the 
council tax related to. I also thought it was strange she didnt question why HMRC 
would be calling about council tax, which its not typically responsible for. Miss G had 
confirmed that as a university student shed recently completed council tax 
exemption forms which wouldve been through her local council. So although she 
didnt have much experience in paying council tax, based on the experience she did 
have, I thought she reasonably ought to have been aware it involved her local 
council.
Miss G had searched the number the scammers were calling from and could see it 
had a different country code. Which I think ought to have seemed strange given they 
were pretending to be a government organisation in the UK. I also thought it ought to 
have seemed odd scammers asked her to communicate via WhatsApp rather than a 
more formal communication channel.
Miss G was also told she needed to make separate payments of around £1,000 to 
cover different fees and charges, but all of the payments were made to the same 
account. Miss G hasnt been able to provide any plausible explanation she was given 
as to why this was the case.
I could see Metro Bank had made reasonable attempts to try and recall the funds 
from the scammers account but unfortunately the funds had already been moved on 
so couldnt be retrieved. So I thought it had done everything I would expect in trying 
to recall the funds.
Under the CRM code I felt Metro Bank should reimburse Miss G 50% of her loss. As 
it had already done this I didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Metro Bank responded and confirmed it accepted my provisional decision. Miss G didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised 
above.As Metro Bank has already reimbursed Miss G for 50% of her loss, I dont think it needs to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman