DRN-2760675
The complaint
 Mr A and Ms Ms complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to the 
misreporting of some mortgage repayment information, to their credit file. 
What happened
 Mr A and Ms M had a mortgage at all relevant times with NatWest. They contacted NatWest 
in March 2020 requesting a payment holiday for three months, to which NatWest agreed. 
Later, in May, they contacted NatWest again with a view to discussing matters going forward 
as the agreed payment holiday was coming to an end. A further payment holiday was 
agreed for June and July.
Unfortunately, NatWest didnt amend Mr A and Ms Ms credit file for either the first or second 
payment holiday to show their account wasnt in arrears, and this led to two complaints, 
which NatWest upheld. For the first complaint (July complaint) NatWest offered Mr A and Ms 
M £100 and for the second (September complaint) it offered £50. NatWest also amended the 
credit file to show the correct position.
In the course of checking their credit files Mr A and Ms M noticed further incorrectly recorded 
information, showing that four payments to their account had been missed in December 
2017, January and November 2018 and July 2019. Mr A and Ms M made a third complaint 
about this to NatWest as they said they had been in a payment arrangement at that time. 
NatWest accepted this, corrected the credit file, and offered compensation of £150.
Mr A and Ms M were unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. They told this service that because of 
NatWests errors there had been adverse consequences for them, in particular that they had 
been unable to lease a vehicle due to the wrong credit reference entries.
Our investigator thought that although there had been poor service, the amount of 
compensation NatWest had offered and the corrections to the credit markers, was enough to 
put things right as it had effectively put Mr A and Ms M back in the position they were. Mr A 
and Ms M then pointed out that there had been a further incorrectly reported missed 
payment for December 2020 and the investigator recommended that a further £100 should 
be paid and both their credit files corrected.
Mr A and Ms M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. 
Im going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence.
There is seemingly no dispute with respect to the first three complaints. NatWest accept that 
there was incorrect information recorded to Mr A and Ms Ms credit files. It is also accepted 
that those credit files have been corrected. The remaining dispute on these complaints 
centres on the amount of compensation offered by NatWest.
In relation to the fourth complaint, Mr A and Ms M produced a screen shot of their credit file, 
taken on 30 March 2021, which shows that it was updated on 25 February 2021 and 
displaying a missed payment for December 2020. I acknowledge NatWest said in March 
2021 that they had corrected that entry to show that Mr A and Ms M were in a payment 
arrangement, but the evidence I have seen contradicts that, certainly in so far as to what the 
correct position was on 25 February 2021. It is clear therefore that at the very minimum Mr A 
and Ms Ms credit file was still being impacted by the end of February 2021. I also accept 
that since that time Mr A and Ms Ms credit files have been corrected and an arrangement to 
pay is being recorded. I am therefore satisfied that Mr A and Ms M had good cause to raise 
a further complaint and that NatWest should further compensate them for this additional 
trouble and upset.
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we take 
into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused. We categorise awards we make into the brackets of modest, 
substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no prescribed figure I can turn to, since the 
facts of each case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all 
the circumstances of the case in point and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set 
against the effect upon the complainant of any particular service failure.
I know Ms M has produced a letter dated November 2020, from a car finance company to 
say that her application for credit had, following a credit search, not met their underwriting 
criteria. In other words, her application had been refused, but it is not at all clear whether the 
reason it was refused related to the misreporting on their credit files or due to some other 
information. When considering applications for credit lenders do base their decision on a 
variety of factors such as its own lending criteria, affordability and information provided in the 
application form, and it may well have been the case that the application was declined for 
one of those reasons. The same reasoning applies to their credit card company declining to 
increase their credit limit. 
I was very sorry to hear about Mr As poor health and I sincerely hope he is improving. I 
have no doubt that the errors caused by NatWest would only have added to what was 
already a difficult time for them both. And Ive factored that in when deciding what would be 
an appropriate award here. 
Putting things right I appreciate Mr A and Ms M will probably be disappointed with my decision, but having 
weighed all the evidence into the balance, I think the award here should fall within the 
moderate bracket. I do therefore think that £400 is a fair and reasonable amount and I think 
it reflects the trouble and upset caused by the misreporting.
I uphold this complaint, and instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr A and Ms M 
£400 to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
 So, my final decision is that it should pay Mr A and Ms M £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman