DRN-2983220
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) will not carry out 
repairs following a valid subsidence claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs L made a claim in September 2019 as they noticed cracking in the walls of their 
free-standing garage. 
RSA inspected the damage. It concluded the damage was caused by a cypress hedge 
directly behind the garage. This was also confirmed by an arboriculture report which said the 
cypress hedge was the dominant cause of the damage.
Enquiries had to be made to establish who owned the hedge and it has now been confirmed 
this vegetation is owned by Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour. Despite attempts made by RSA to 
contact the neighbour, it was unsuccessful in reaching them. 
Mr and Mrs L raised complaints with RSA about how long the claim had been ongoing. They 
would like repairs completed.
RSA responded. In summary, it said because the same vegetation was the cause of the 
subsidence which Mr and Mrs L registered a claim for in 2008, it needed to ensure the cause 
of the damage was addressed. It feels that all its enquiries were valid. RSA said it would 
continue to monitor the movement and communicate with Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour and if 
needs be, send them a notice letter which puts them on notice that they will be liable for 
further damage.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs L referred a complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. She felt the evidence supported 
RSAs actions taken during the claim. The expert evidence supported RSAs conclusion that 
the cypress hedge was the cause of the damage. Because RSA had a responsibility to 
complete a lasting and effective repair, and because this was the second subsidence claim 
for damage caused by the same hedge, mitigation of the hedge was vital to the claim. She 
felt the claim had been progressed accurately and that RSA hadnt caused any avoidable 
delays.
Mr and Mrs L responded. They felt removal of the hedge was unreasonable and expensive. 
And it was unfair for the neighbours to be put to the expense of removing the hedge. Mr 
and Mrs L recommended that a trench be dug deep enough to sever the roots and filled 
with hardcore to prevent the roots growing in the same direction again.
Mr and Mrs Ls suggestion was put to RSA for comment. RSA replied with an update. It said 
that it had carried out extensive monitoring of the property, and the results had shown that 
the structure had returned to stability, so it is looking to proceed with repairs. RSA have also 
put the neighbour on notice as they havent responded in respect of mitigating their hedge. It 
didnt think that a trench or a root barrier is required as the structure is stable and no further 
cracking or worsening of the existing cracking had happened.
Our investigator informed Mr L of this update. She said she felt it was fair now that the 
property was stable for work to begin. She also said that placing the neighbour on notice 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as the cause of the subsidence hasnt been 
mitigated. Mr L remains unhappy that his neighbour has been placed on notice and the time 
its taken to deal with his claim and requested for his case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint, Im mindful that RSA is required to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. But claims relating to subsidence are likely to take a significant amount of time to 
resolve, often because of the investigations and the extent of monitoring necessary to 
identify the cause of the problem. And especially when other parties are involved for 
example neighbours, local councils etc. 
From looking at the expert reports on file, Im persuaded that the cause of the damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ls free-standing garage is the mixed cypress hedge belonging to the neighbours. 
And I agree that to complete a lasting and effective repair, the cause of the damage needs to 
be addressed and/or the property needs to stabilise.  I can see RSA has been trying to get 
the neighbour to remove the cause of the damage  the vegetation. But in the meantime, it 
has been monitoring the movement of the property.
Considering that this is the second episode of subsidence caused by the same vegetation. 
Im satisfied that it was right for RSA to try and get the cause mitigated so it could complete 
a lasting repair. As all parties know, this hasnt been successful, so RSA has placed the 
neighbour on notice. I appreciate Mr and Mrs L are unhappy about this, and felt it was unfair 
for the neighbour to have the expense of removing the vegetation and suggested that a root 
barrier is used instead. RSA has said the root barrier isnt required now as the property has 
stabilised and it will now proceed with repairs. 
However, Im satisfied that it was fair for RSA to put the neighbour on notice. The hedge 
belongs to the neighbour and it is that, that is causing the damage to Mr and Mrs Ls 
property. The insurance policy Mr and Mrs L has is designed to only cover the cost of 
repairing damages caused by the subsidence its not designed to cover the cost of taking 
action to stop the movement or, if it has already stopped, prevent it from happening again. 
So, RSA were right in asking Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour to mitigate their hedge. This is 
because we expect insurers to carry out effective and lasting repairs. If the hedge isnt 
mitigated, then on the balance of probability, it is more likely than not that the clay shrinkage 
could occur again causing the same damage. This would mean that the repairs are not 
lasting. As RSA are now going to proceed with repairs as the property is stable, should 
another episode of subsidence occur in the future due to the same vegetation, RSA will 
contact the neighbour as they will be liable. 
Regarding the delays and handling of the claim, I think all enquiries made by RSA were 
valid. RSA needed to establish what was the dominant cause of the subsidence, including 
who owns the vegetation. And when the cause of subsidence damage is owned by a third 
party, it can take time to resolve the claim as it is reliant on the third partys co-operation. It has in the meantime being monitoring the property to see if it stabilised. Im pleased to see it 
is now stable and works can start. 
I can appreciate to Mr and Mrs L it mayve felt little was happening over this time, but Im not 
persuaded RSA have done anything wrong here. I think the claim has been handled 
reasonably and I cant hold RSA responsible for the lack of co-operation from the neighbour 
and works couldnt start before the property stabilised. So, I wont be asking RSA to do 
anything further other than to contact Mr and Mrs L regarding the repair work they intend to 
do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman