DRN-3993990
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when trying to make two 
international payments.
What happened
Mr F travelled to Switzerland for some medical treatment. He needed to pay for the
treatment in two instalments using international bank transfers. The first was for £10,789 (in
Swiss francs). He tried to make this on 20 February 2022 - the payment not made and his
account was blocked. He arrived in Switzerland on 21 February 2022 and called Lloyds. He
made the payment on that call  at the third attempt. On 24 February 2022, following
completion of the treatment, he tried to pay the last instalment of approximately £5,800 (in
Swiss francs). He made six calls to Lloyds but the payment wasnt made. Mr F then
transferred to money to another bank and made the international payment using that bank.
Mr F complained. He said:
- When he called to make the payment on 21 February 2022, Lloyds questions were
an invasion of his privacy.
- Because his account was blocked on the first payment attempt, he spent a stressful
30 minutes on the phone when he arrived at the airport - and only managed to make
to make the payment on the third attempt.
- When he tried to pay the second instalment, his account was again blocked and the
payment not made. As it was to the same beneficiary, he couldnt see why that was
the case  as he had told Lloyds a second payment would be needed.
- On 24 February 2022, on one of the calls, Lloyds call handler was uncaring  and
then told him to go to an ATM to unblock his debit card. This meant he had to walk
three miles to the nearest town to do so. And that was after his medical treatment 
and he had been advised not to do strenuous exercise.
- Because of what happened, he had to stay in Switzerland for an extra night. This
caused increased hotel bills and car parking charges.
- He later said to us that he had to take five extra days off work due to the stress of
what happened  this cost him £1800.
Lloyds apologised for the difficulties that Mr F had. They accepted that some call handlers
were focused on his debit card transactions rather than the international payments he
wanted to make. He had also been transferred to the wrong departments  rather than the
fraud team. Lloyds said theyd had a short-term systems issue which caused authorisation of
payments to be caught in a referral loop That meant Mr F had to repeat the security
process by calling back each time and going through the questions again. Once a payment
was set up, Lloyds system should have recognised it and therefore it should be accepted
the next time.
On the questions posed to Mr F on 21 February 2022  this was part of Lloyds security
checks and they said they were necessary, and not intrusive. Lloyds paid compensation of
£307  being £100 distress and inconvenience; £48 towards call costs; £74 hotel bill; and
£85 car parking charges.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought Lloyds had done enough. Lloyds
security checks were necessary as part of their fraud detection processes. He said the
payment of £307 by Lloyds was sufficient.
Mr F didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I made a provisional decision where I said:
Mr F was to undergo a medical procedure in another country  and when he tried to make
the first payment the day before he departed, it was declined. He then left for Switzerland
and arrived on 21 February 2022  and then tried again to make the payment for the first
instalment for his treatment. Ive read Mr Fs file in detail and listened to all the calls between
himself and Lloyds. And overall, I dont think Lloyds acted reasonably here. Over the course
of eight phone calls, Mr F clearly suffered a good deal of stress and inconvenience and I
think Lloyds should do more to settle his complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that Lloyds, like all banks, have checks in place to prevent fraudulent
payments  so I accept the need for those. And Mr F also accepts that.
Therefore, when Mr F tried to make the first payment on 20 February 2022  it was blocked
for further checks. I accept that. His account was then blocked and he was asked to contact
Lloyds. I then listened to the call made from the arrival airport on 21 February 2022. On the
third attempt, Mr F managed to make the payment. The call lasted about 40 minutes  but at
least the payment was made. Mr F then told the call handler that he would need to make
another payment of a smaller amount to the same beneficiary after his treatment. The call
handler said  there would be a reasonable chance of it going through as it was to the same
business.
But here  Lloyds told us during our investigation that if Mr F had used the same internet
banking profile for the second payment (i.e. if it had been saved as a known payee)  it
would likely have gone through without any problem. I think it would have been reasonable
for Lloyds to tell him that on the call  but they didnt. If they had, all the subsequent issues 
wouldve been avoided. As it was, when Mr F came to make the second payment on 24
February 2022  Lloyds told us he set it up as new recipient  and so this caused it to be
declined again. If he had used the previous payee profile  it would very likely have gone
through.
Lloyd also told us that they had a systems problem at the time  and so on the payment
attempts on 21 February 2022 and 24 February 2022  an erroneous referral loop was
happening, and so there were some transaction attempts which were declined
unnecessarily. It appears that that was the cause of some of the problems encountered by
Mr F.
On Mr Fs point about the invasion of his privacy  I heard on the call that there was only one
question about his treatment  and the call handler was polite and respectful. And  that was
part of Lloyds fraud checks process. So - I dont agree with Mr F on that part of his
complaint.
I then listened to six calls made by Mr F on 24 February 2022  and each time the payment
failed. But he was passed between several departments, which didnt help. And I wasparticularly concerned by the third call on that day. I must say I found the call handler to be
cold  and moreover, didnt get to grips with what Mr F wanted: to make the payment.
She said his debit card was blocked and he needed to make a transaction with it using the
PIN number  to unblock it. Lloyds told us during our investigation that the card was blocked
because it had reached a certain number of contactless transactions  and therefore a PIN
payment was needed. But the call handler didnt explain that. Mr F asked if he did what the
call handler asked - would the payment be made  but she didnt answer and repeated the
need to make the PIN transaction. And more importantly, I dont think the debit card had
anything to do with the online payment that Mr F was trying to make  and why he called.
Mr F says she was told he needed to visit an ATM to make a withdrawal. But she didnt say
that - she just said to make a debit card payment. But because Mr F was out of town, he had
to walk three miles to the town to do that  causing him a lot of stress in his condition. Mr F
had explained to Lloyds that he had had an operation. And Ive seen there were notes on his
account to say that. So  the call handler shouldve realised his situation. So  I dont think
Lloyds acted reasonably here.
Mr F was passed between departments on 24 February 2022  and eventually gave up. He
made a GBP transfer to his other bank account and made the international payment through
that bank. But on that day  he made six calls totalling over an hour to Lloyds to try to get
things sorted out. It seems to me that he was transferred between departments in error 
Lloyds confirmed that - and no one be seemed to be able to sort his problem out. On the fifth
call, I heard Lloyds call handler say he would call Mr F back  but he didnt. I accept that on
some calls, Mr F ran out of call minutes or data on his phone  so some of the issues were
unavoidable.
Therefore, in summary  I think Lloyds should do more here. I say that because:
- They couldve advised Mr F to pay existing payee on his mobile banking app to
when make the second payment but didnt. If they had, its likely many of the issues
wouldve been avoided.
- Lloyds had systems issues whereby Mr F was referred for security checks/questions
when it wasnt needed.
- Lloyds call handler on 24 February 2022 asked Mr F to validate his debit card by making a 
PIN transaction - but that had nothing to do with his international payment.
So he had to walk three miles to do that.
- He was passed between departments on 24 February 2022 and there were six calls,
all without resolving the payment problems he had.
- Lloyds promised a call back at one stage, and that wasnt made.
Lloyds have paid compensation of £307, of which £207 was to meet Mr Fs additional costs
of calls, hotel, and car parking. £100 was for distress and inconvenience  and its that
aspect that I am reviewing. Mr F has argued that he should get loss of earning of £1,800 
that isnt something our service would agree to  we dont, in general, agree to refund loss of
earnings. But - I think Lloyds should pay an additional £300. This would be in line with what
our service would expect to see for what happened here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision and agreed to pay the compensation. Mr F didnt 
respond.I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds accepted the provisional decision and Mr F didnt respond, Im not departing from 
it in making my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should:
- Pay £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. This in addition to the £307 
already paid (of which £100 was for distress and inconvenience).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman