DRN-4298843
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. 
(trading as Telefonica Insurance UK Branch) (Telefonica) has rejected a claim for the loss of 
his mobile phone.
References to Telefonica include its agents and claims administrators.
What happened
Mr M had a mobile phone provided by a network that Ill refer to as Network A. This was a 
replacement phone that Mr M had been given following a problem with a previous phone. 
When this replacement phone was lost between the time of boarding a plane and arriving at 
his destination, he made a claim under the insurance policy with Telefonica that was 
provided by Network A. He provided the phone number that he had for the phone which 
Network A recognised as his.
Telefonica declined Mr Ms claim. It said that another number was being used on his phone 
at the same time as his. This might have been due to the phone having a dual Sim  a 
physical Sim and an electronic Sim. Mr M says that this was investigated by Network A and 
a mistake or error was identified. Telefonica says that the number Mr M provided wasnt the 
last number used by the phone. If he could provide the number used, it would suggest that at 
the time of the loss the phone was being used by him.
Mr M has consistently maintained that he doesnt know the other number used from his 
phone. He says hes never given his phone to anyone. Network A knows the other number 
and that its being used by one of its customers, but it wont provide this information to Mr M 
for data protection reasons. Mr M maintains that it is within Telefonicas power to obtain this 
information.
In its final response letter to Mr M, Telefonica explained that it considered that the 
information that Mr M had provided was inconsistent. It says that hed told Telefonica that 
Network A had told him that a previous user of the phone may have inserted an e-Sim into 
the phone and this hadnt been removed before the phone was supplied to him. When 
Telefonica spoke to Network A, it couldnt confirm this information, but confirmed that the e-
Sim, had been inserted into the phone after it had been delivered to Mr M. It therefore said it 
was unable to fairly assess Mr Ms claim and declined it by reference to the following policy 
term:
 You must take reasonable care to ensure that the information provided to Us when 
You take out Your policy is complete and accurate and that no facts are 
misrepresented to Us. If any fact is misrepresented to Us or if You fail to answer a 
question in full, or fail to provide the requested information to Us, this could invalidate 
Your insurance cover and could mean that part or all of Your Claim may not be paid. 
Your policy is void at Our discretion in the event of a misrepresentation by You which 
is deliberate or reckless.
Telefonica went on to explain that in order to validate the claim, it would need to establish 
that Mr M was in possession of the phone at the time of loss. As Mr M wasnt able to confirm 
key details of the phone and its usage, it couldnt validate this.
Mr M says he has health concerns and has suffered considerable stress and anxiety over 
Telefonicas failure to deal with the various complaints hes made and to adequately 
investigate who is using the other number from his phone. He brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigators view was that Mr Ms explanation that there may have been an e-Sim on 
his replacement phone that hadnt been removed by Network A before the phone was 
provided to him could be correct, and that Telefonica hadnt done enough given its resources 
to confirm the validity of what Mr M had said before rejecting his claim. She therefore didnt 
consider that Telefonica had acted fairly towards Mr M and that it should settle his claim.
Mr M has accepted our investigators view. Telefonica hasnt provided any response to it 
despite a reminder having been sent.
 
Mr Ms complaint has therefore been referred to me as an ombudsman for a final decision 
from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Whilst I understand why Telefonica needs to satisfy itself that Mr M was in possession of the 
phone at its time of loss, and that he hadnt, for example, sold it to somebody else, I dont 
see how Mr M can prove possession by knowing the other number associated with the 
phone. Continuing the example of his having sold his phone to a third party, Mr M wouldnt 
be expected to know the number of a new Sim inserted by the new owner. 
 
It is for Telefonica to show why Mr Ms claim should not be met and that a policy term covers 
this decision. I consider that the term Ive quoted above refers to misrepresentations when 
taking out a policy and doesnt extend to information provided when making a claim. I 
consider that if there is any concern about the accuracy of information provided by Mr M 
when making a claim, the policy term relating to Fraudulent Claims is more appropriate, but 
Telefonica has not alleged any fraud by Mr M.
Telefonica hasnt provided any response to our investigators view, which might have 
addressed the point Ive raised above. I consider it reasonable to regard such failure as 
suggesting that it has nothing further to add, or that it takes no issue with our investigators 
view. It has had the opportunity to clarify its position.
In these circumstances, I dont consider that Telefonica has done enough to prove on the 
balance of probabilities that Mr Ms claim is not valid. It wouldve been helpful if Telefonica, 
in response to our investigators view, couldve clarified why it considered it appropriate to 
decline his claim.
I should add that whilst Mr M has made a number of other complaints about Telefonica, this 
service isnt able to address complaints relating to claims handling as that is not an activity 
which we regulate. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I require Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. (trading as 
Telefonica Insurance UK Branch) to settle Mr Ms claim subject to any other terms and 
conditions of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman