DRN-3736507
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as S, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds settlement offer in relation to a claim for business interruption cover under its 
business insurance policy. 
Mr W, as director of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
S is engaged in defence activities, consisting mainly of provision of firearms and firearms 
training to the police and military.  
In March 2020, S contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business interruption, as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. S said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in 
March 2020, it had to close its business from March to June 2020, which resulted in a loss of 
revenue. S says Hiscox initially said it could not make a claim, as there was no cover. 
However, it says it obtained legal advice and then lodged the claim.  
S also submitted two further claims, for periods of Government imposed restrictions in 
November 2020 and January 2021. 
Hiscox said the policy provides cover for losses arising as a result of S not being able to use 
its premises following closure by a public authority, as a result of an occurrence of a 
notifiable disease within the vicinity of the insured premises. However, it said that the 
Government restrictions had been a national response to the pandemic and not as a result 
of any specific occurrence of Covid-19 in the vicinity of Ss premises. 
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a premises access clause which provides 
cover if the policyholder is prevented or hindered from accessing their business premises. s 
denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within a mile radius 
of the premises. Hiscox said S was not denied access of its premises as a result of an 
incident and so this section of cover would not apply to the claim either. Hiscox said that all 
other parts of the business interruption section of cover require there to have been damage 
to property and so also would not apply to Ss claim.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Ss policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox reconsidered Ss claim after that judgment was made and as a result it confirmed in 
December 2021 that it accepted that S was required to close the retail side of its business 
and met that part of Ss claim. However, Hiscox still did not accept that S was required to 
close its entire business. It said S was still permitted to provide its services to the police and 
military and so that part of its claim was not covered. 
Mr W is very unhappy about this. He has made a number of submissions in in support of the 
complaint. Ive considered everything Mr W has said but have summarised the main points 
below: 
Hiscox has not complied with the Supreme Court judgement in the test case.
The Government guidance was that businesses could continue to work with frontline 
police/military only and it does not provide services or firearms to frontline positions. 
It wasnt sure initially therefore if it could trade or not, so it contacted its local council 
each time the Government imposed a lockdown (i.e. March, November 2020 and 
January 2021) and was told each time that it must close and was not permitted to 
have any visitors to its premises or do any face-to-face business with customers. 
Due to the nature of its business, S could not do any trade online and is not allowed 
to advertise, so all trading ceased. 
As a result of the local council guidance, S also received a grant each time, which it 
was only entitled to as it was a business that was mandated to close. 
The insurance policy was sold to S on the basis it covered the whole business not 
just the retail side, which is only 1-2% of its business. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst S may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close all of its business by the Government, so it had 
not been caused an inability to use its premises, as required by the policy. The Investigator 
didnt think the claim was covered under any other part of the policy either. 
S does not accept the Investigators assessment. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
S has complained about the rejection of three claims altogether, each relating to different 
lockdown periods. As they are separate claims, I am only going to address the first claim for 
the period from March 2020 in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Ss submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Ss entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. I have considered the section of cover that both parties consider is relevant to this 
claim below: 
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following 
ii.. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority. 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ss was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Ss business alone. The court also made it clear that it 
may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out an inability to use its 
premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would provide 
cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or 
for a discrete part of its business. 
So the question is whether or not S suffered an inability to use its premises.
S does a small amount of retail trade and Hiscox has agreed that this discrete part of its 
business would be covered. I think that is reasonable. I have to determine whether I think 
there was also an inability to use the premises for the remaining business activities. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant to considering this question. These regulations were important in 
setting out which businesses were required to close. 
Ss business doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically 
mentioned in the regulations brought into effect in March 2020, either as being a business 
that was required to close or that was permitted to stay open. 
Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude 
that S was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).The insured premises are a unit consisting of a room with some display items and an office 
upstairs. And S has said that most of its business is by way of contracts with the police and 
military, which would often be subject to a tendering process. 
I do not therefore think that Ss business, as it has been described in the evidence provided 
to me, would fall into the same category as the non-essential shops and services that were 
specifically listed in the regulations as being required to close. While a very small part of its 
services were to members of the public, it would not appear to be open to the public in the 
way that the shops and other businesses that were specifically listed as having to close 
would have. I therefore agree with Hiscox that S was not mandated to close by the 
Government. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that Ss employees and its commercial customers that 
might need to attend its premises, would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work 
when attending the premises. 
The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that might have had an impact on 
demand for Ss services and the pandemic would also have affected the normal operation of 
the services S supplies, which might also affect demand. However, this does not amount to 
an inability by S to use its premises.  
However, having said all that, I also have to consider whether the instructions S says it had 
from its local council might trigger the cover. S says it discussed its entire business operation 
with the council during each lockdown period.
A local authority would be deemed to be a public authority in my opinion. Unsurprisingly, S 
has not been able to provide a recording of the phone conversations it had with its local 
council. It has also not been able to provide any documentary evidence of a direction or 
requirement from the local council that it should close its premises and was unable to use 
them for any purpose.  
S has however, provided evidence of receipt grants received during each lockdown period. 
The one paid in June 2020 says it is for discretionary funding   and has provided a copy of 
an email from the council revenue officer dated 8 September 2021, which says:
I can confirm [S] were granted the Local Restrictions Support Grant  which a 
requirement of is that the company was mandated to close during periods national 
lockdown. As such [S] were entitled to and received the grant funding offered. 
Hiscox says the fact that S received a grant from its local council reflects that the retail part 
of its business was mandated to close but does not prove that S was unable to use its 
premises at all. 
In addition, Hiscox refers to Mr Ws email dated 16 August 2021, in which he says he asked 
the local council for a letter to confirm its advice to him and he said he was told that:
it is not the councils policy to provide documentary evidence for insurance 
companies as to whether or not a business was mandated to close. In the first 
instance they have pointed me at the Governments published list of essential 
businesses and told me that a Firearms Dealer and Training Equipment provider 
would not fall under essential, as such that is why they have supplied me with the 
grants for the lockdown periods.Hiscox says that the council referred Mr W back to the Government (March 2020) 
Regulations and these did not set out any requirement for all aspects of Ss business to 
close. 
Without any independent evidence of the discussions S had with its local authority, it is 
difficult to be certain. I have to consider the evidence that is available and determine what I 
think is most likely to have happened. 
It is accepted that the retail part of Ss operation was required to close and it seems to me 
likely that S would have qualified for the local authority grant as a result of the closure of the 
retail side of its business. Ive seen no evidence that the whole business had to cease in 
order to get the grant. Having considered everything provided to me, I am not persuaded 
that the fact S received a grant from its local authority, is enough to establish that Ss local 
authority imposed a restriction on S which meant it could not operate the non-retail part of its 
business.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman