DRN-4276487
The complaint
Mrs R complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a type of personal pension plan arrangement. She 
says the advice, which was provided in 2000, was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited is now responsible for answering 
this complaint. To keep things simple therefore, Ill refer mainly to Sun Life when referring 
to the responsible business. 
What happened
At the time, Mrs R was a deferred member of her OPS, having been employed previously in 
the 1990s and accrued a number of years worth of benefits. Sun Lifes recommendation 
was to transfer away from her deferred DB scheme. Mrs Rs circumstances of the time 
showed:
She was aged 36, married and with one dependent child. She was in good health
Mrs R was by then employed in a new role earning £10,632 per year, with further 
income of £2,038 per year. She had by then joined a new public sector DB scheme 
with her new employer which isnt the subject of any complaint.
She had mortgage of around £25,500 with 13 years left to run on a property worth 
around £40,000.
The final cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Rs DB pension was around 
£10,073. This was transferred to a personal pension plan in July 2000.
The normal retirement age (NRA) of the DB scheme in Mrs Rs case was 2029, 
which was 65 years.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 26 July 2023 saying I thought the complaint was one we 
could look in to. 
One of our investigators has also looked into the merits of Mrs Rs complaint and said they 
think we should uphold it. Sun Life hasnt agreed with this. So, because the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by Sun Life in 2000. Based on the information Ive seen I 
understand the advising business was more likely to have been a previous member of the 
Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO), rather than the Financial 
Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA).
Nevertheless, as of 2000 Sun Life was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). 
When the PIA took responsibility for LAUTRO and FIMBRA businesses in 1994, it adopted 
the LAUTRO and FIMBRA rules. And so, these adopted rules applied at the time of the 
advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Examples of the key FIMBRA rules are set out, although not limited to, those below
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant 
information concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to 
provide investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client 
and any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, 
which types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was suitable and in Mrs Rs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding her complaint.
Financial viability To demonstrate the financial comparisons between her current DB scheme and transferring 
out to a personal pension arrangement, Sun Life referred in its final response letter about 
this complaint to a critical yield rate. The critical yield is the average annual investment 
return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - 
to provide the same benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different 
things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension arrangement could achieve 
the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
Sun Life hasnt been able to show me the full suitability report or transfer analysis from the 
period, the implication being neither are available after the passage of time. But in its final 
response letter to Mrs Rs complaint, it said the critical yield required to match Mrs Rs DB 
scheme benefits was 8.24%. But there was no mention of whether this was a result of taking 
all the benefits in a pension form, or if taking a reduced pension and tax-free lump-sum. 
There was also no mention of whether the critical yield was being applied for an NRA of 65, 
or a different age. Sun Lifes critical yield figure is therefore of limited value. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
In Mrs Rs case, our investigator said the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice 
was given was only 6.9% (for a retirement at age 60). However, as Ive said, I think its more 
likely the NRA of the scheme was 65, even if Mrs R might have wanted to retire earlier. For a 
retirement at 65, the discount rate was 7.1%, with some 28 years left to retirement. This is 
still well below the critical yield figure Ive set out above and so it implies that exceeding the 
critical yield was not probable in these circumstances. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the 
middle projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. In its final response 
letter, Sun Life said these projected growth assumptions from the regulator meant matching 
the critical yield was possible. But I dont agree with this. Sun Life gives no explanation or 
context as to why reaching a sustained growth rate close to the critical yield was likely. As 
Ive said, the middle rate assumption was only 7% and Sun Life itself says Mrs R had a 
moderate attitude to risk.
However, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs R did have a moderate attitude to risk. All 
the evidence points to her having no investments of this nature and no past investment 
experience to draw upon. She also appeared to have very little capacity for loss. In any 
event, both the middle growth assumption and the discount rate implied growth of below 
8.24%. As our investigator explained, Mrs R would have had to have seen her investments 
outgrow the critical yield, year-on-year for over 28 years, to make transferring viable from a 
financial perspective. In my view, there would be little point in transferring away from a DB 
scheme to achieve benefits of a lower overall value upon retiring. There would also be little 
value in transferring even to obtain similar financial benefits. And these scenarios are what 
Mrs R faced as a consequence of this advice to irreversibly leave her DB scheme.
Of course, transferring away could have been justified on other grounds. In my view, Sun 
Lifes rationale for other transfer reasons are somewhat confused. However, Ive 
considered what it has said, nonetheless. Ive also thought about other issues that could 
have affected a decision about whether or not to transfer.
Other potential reasons for the transfer adviceDue to the lack of information available from Sun Life, Ive had to rely mainly on what we can 
still access from Mrs Rs DB scheme, what shes told us, and written information shes 
retained herself from the time of the advice. Ive also considered with care everything Sun 
Life said in its final response letter to Mrs R and what it said in response to our investigators 
view. 
Ive used all these things to fairly assess other likely reasons given for transferring.
Did Mrs R need to transfer at all?
I think one of the most obvious issues in this situation was that Mrs R was only 36 years old 
and still had over 28 years to go before she reached the NRA of her DB scheme. I think the 
adviser should have therefore started from the premise that this seemed far too young to be 
considering transferring out of a scheme that had certain valued benefits and guarantees 
unless any explicit and positive reasons existed. At just 36, I dont think Mrs R could have 
yet formed any concrete plans for her retirement as she still had a growing family, a 
relatively new career and a home to keep. And I cant see that the adviser really took any 
account of what Mrs Rs retirement income requirements might look like from a financial 
perspective. 
In any event, there was simply no reason for Mrs R to transfer away at all. Sun Life has 
recently said that it had an understanding that Mrs Rs DB scheme was closing down. But 
this isnt recorded from anything Ive seen issued at the time; and if the scheme was in 
financial trouble, I would have expected comprehensive evidence showing this. In fact, if this 
was the case, I think the adviser would have used this to shorten his workload. By this I 
mean that this reasoning would have probably been so powerful he would have only needed 
to explain this clearly once to justify that Mrs R obviously had to transfer away.
Weve obtained evidence from the DB scheme that there was no such vulnerability in the 
scheme and I think its more likely Mrs Rs old role, or parts of the company shed previously 
been employed with were changing. The scheme still exists today and is paying deferred 
members and I think Sun Life could have easily checked this. So, to be clear, there is no 
evidence Mrs Rs DB scheme was closing or that she otherwise needed to leave her DB 
scheme. 
The notes Ive seen from the adviser at the time suggest Mrs R was concerned about the 
performance of the scheme. Its not clear what she meant by this. But as Ive said, Mrs R 
was not experienced in these types of matters and had little understanding of how a DB 
scheme worked, as opposed to a money market invested personal pension plan. So, the 
adviser should have been informing Mrs R that her DB scheme didnt operate in a way that 
was directly affected by market conditions in the way a defined contribution scheme was. 
Her scheme was a promise to pay a particular pension at a certain age and this could easily 
have been explained to her. References were also made to her scheme being frozen which 
I think were inaccurate, unhelpful and potentially worrying for her.
So, in my view, all these things clearly indicate the transfer away wasnt likely to be in her 
best interests.
Were there any other specific objectives in transferring?
In responding to her complaint, Sun Life makes mention of the adviser having explained 
some of the transferring objectives to Mrs R. However, as we no longer have any suitability 
report (or similar) I cant see what these objectives were. Mrs Rs wider financial 
circumstances werent recorded, or at least kept for us to look at now. For example, theres no evidence her husbands circumstances were considered in any detailed way as part of a 
potential transfer decision. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs R would have wanted to personally manage her pension. 
This isnt mentioned by Sun Life and theres certainly no evidence she had either the desire 
or capacity to manage these types of funds. I think she would have found the complexity of 
doing so uncomfortable. On the other hand, Mrs Rs existing pension was managed for her, 
by trustees, and I think this more suited her limited investment knowledge and her wider 
financial situation.
Death benefits
I cant be sure whether, or the extent to which, death benefits were discussed at the time, 
But in my view, the death benefits on offer through the existing DB scheme were probably 
good. For instance, upon death after a retirement, the spouse benefits would have likely 
provided a pension increasing with the retail prices index (RPI). Ive taken this from some of 
the documents Ive seen and also my knowledge of DB schemes in general. If death 
occurred before retirement  and of course, Mrs R was still only 36 at the time  there was 
likely a spouses pension revalued to the date of death, again with RPI, plus a likely benefit 
between dependent children. In the event of incapacity rather than death, there were other 
benefits to consider. 
These were, in my view, examples of important benefits within the DB scheme. Mrs R was 
married and these types of benefits were not generally present outside the DB scheme. I 
think they were likely underplayed during the course of the advice. I think the adviser should 
have been promoting these to Mrs R and explaining how valuable they were to her and her 
husbands situation.
Other issues
The investigation of this complaint has, to a degree, been somewhat restricted due to the 
lack of contemporaneous documentation from the advice sessions(s) which Sun Life has 
been unable to provide. Whilst I accept the transfer took place over two decades ago, it also 
followed a substantial Pension Review process which the then regulator directed firms 
involved in pension transfer advice to carry out. The Pensions Review came about in the 
mid-1990s and so only a short time before the advice was given in this case. It also followed 
a period where many concerns had been expressed by the regulator and indeed within the 
financial industry, of widespread failures when advising clients to transfer away from DB 
schemes.
In this context, there was a well-known and widespread requirement for proper 
documentation to be kept indefinitely for obvious reasons. The Pensions Review process 
lasted several years and placed a heavy burden on firms like Sun Life to go back and review 
cases where DB transfer advice had been given. So, when Sun Life says now that it cant 
recover the necessary evidence from the time, this in my view, represents a significant 
failure.
Ive noted that in its final response letter to Mrs R, Sun Life places weight on it having 
prepared a transfer analysis report to discuss and compare your anticipated rights under 
your former scheme and our proposed personal pension plan. It also says, a personal 
financial profile was completed and this document recorded your personal and financial 
circumstances, and the recommendation made by the adviser. However, what Ive seen are 
somewhat incomplete documents mainly supplied by Mrs R. Sun Life has been able to 
provide very little and it has not evidently retained a proper recommendation report or 
transfer analysis. Theres also no evidence of the benefits and value of her existing scheme being properly explained to Mrs R, a fact which she remembers as being one of the main 
failures and points of her complaint.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from Mrs Rs DB 
scheme was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
Sun Life failed to provide us with any meaningful information to support why such a transfer 
was merited and why it recommended it to Mrs R. Although it provided a summary of what 
happened during the advice session(s) it had with Mrs R, within a final response letter, Sun 
Life has basically been unable to supply much of the important transfer rationale, including 
any suitability report and a comprehensive transfer analysis. What this means is that the key 
thoughts of the adviser, and his rationale for recommending transferring, arent clear. 
Sun Life began its defence of the complaint by implying Mrs R could have grown the value of 
her pension outside the DB scheme, to a degree that made transferring financially 
worthwhile. However, as Ive shown, theres simply no credible evidence of this in my view. 
As all the indications point to her receiving lower rather than higher financial benefits in 
retirement as a result of transferring away, I dont think the transfer recommendation was 
suitable from financial comparison grounds.
I also looked at the other potential reasons given for a transfer. However, Sun Lifes 
response to this was incoherent. On one hand it implied that her existing scheme was in 
trouble and possibly closing down. If this were the case, Id have expected very clear 
evidence set out on the relevant records to show this. However, no such evidence existed 
and weve confirmed with the scheme itself that this wasnt the case.
Sun Life also made several references to Mrs R being given an adequate amount of 
regulatory information and warnings in the course of the advice. It also said that the transfer 
process was relatively unhurried and also that shes had over 20 years of statements about 
her new pension, and therefore, plenty of time to complain. I understand the points being 
made.
However, it was Sun Life that was the regulated party here. It was being paid for the advice 
and Mrs R, a person with no pensions or investment knowledge, had every right to expect 
shed get reliable and trustworthy advice from someone with relevant experience. She may 
well have gone into the advice session(s) with some pre-conceived ideas. But Sun Lifes job 
wasnt to just transact what Mrs R may have thought she wanted at the time; the advisers 
job was to really understand her circumstances and provide advice that was in her best 
interests.
Mrs R was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within her current DB 
scheme. I accept the regulatory requirements were different at the time, but the advice still 
ought to have been clear enough for Mrs R to make an informed decision and Sun Life has 
failed to produce this. At just 36 years old, Mrs R was still a relatively young woman in terms 
of building a pension. There was no credibility in yet saying she ought to transfer and no 
reason why Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to use the DB pension in the way in which it 
was originally intended.
So, I dont think the advice given to Mrs R was suitable. I therefore think Sun Life should 
compensate Mrs R for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's DB pension transfer 
redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs R would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Sun Life must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Rs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Sun Life should:
calculate and offer Mrs R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs R before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs R receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs R accepts Sun Lifes offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs R for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Sun Life may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I now direct Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Mrs R the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited pays Mrs R the balance. If Mrs R 
accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman