DRN-3669304
The complaint
Miss P complains Provident Personal Credit Limited failed to fully carry out the agreement
she had with it to settle a previous unaffordable lending complaint.
What happened
In December 2019 Provident made an offer to settle a complaint Miss P had raised about
her loans being unaffordable  this was following the Financial Ombudsmans involvement in 
the case. As part of the settlement Provident agreed to pay compensation towards eight 
loans. However, one of those loans was with a third-party collection agency (Company A) 
and Provident as part of the compensation held back £1,478 to cover the capital that Miss P 
owed. Provident also said:
There was also £1888.00 interest outstanding for [loan account number], however
we have also reduced this to nil closing the account.
Finally, Provident agreed to remove these loans from Miss Ps credit file.
However, Miss P says that Provident didnt pay any the compensation to Company A or
recall the debt from it and arrange to close it. Instead Miss P says that she only received
confirmation the account had been returned to Provident when Company A wrote to her in
February 2022. Which is over two years after the loan account shouldve been closed.
Miss P says, she had this account appearing on her credit file for additional time, with a
balance and no payments being made towards it wouldve had an impact on her
credit score. Miss P also says, on top of the damage to her credit score, she has had to 
make numerous calls and chasers not only Provident but also to Company A to find out what 
was going on.
After she raised a complaint with Provident, it provided a response on 18 February 2022,
but this isnt a valid final response letter because Miss P wasnt provided with referral
rights to the Financial Ombudsman. But Provident did provide a cheque for £250.
Unhappy with this response Miss P referred her complaint here.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it because in her view the
compensation Provident had paid of £250 was fair and reasonable. Although, she did
accept, given the information provided that Provident hadnt carried out the redress in
2019 when the previous complaint was closed.
The adjudicator also said that for her to make any further award against Provident shed
need to see some evidence of the impact on Providents error had on her. For example,
evidence that she was refused credit solely, because of Providents inaccurate credit file
entry.
The adjudicator said Provident had agreed to update her credit file, but it could take up to
45 days to do so. She also didnt think that Provident had to pay Miss P any further
compensation as a result of Provident holding money back to pay Company A and then
not doing so and Provident wanting to offset the outstanding balance was a reasonable
course of action.
Miss P didnt agree with the adjudicator and she responded, and Ive summarised the
response below.
In March 2020 Miss P was aware Company A still had the loan account because she 
spoke to them and it agreed to place the account on hold.
Miss P accepts this matter was left due to COVID and everything being delayed.
She had no response from either Company A or Provident in relation to the debt or 
the compensation.
Miss P had problems being added to a mortgage in July 2020 and at this time she had 
no other accounts in default or in arrears.
Miss P accepts no payments were made towards the account since July 2018.
In September 2020 Miss P was given an update by Company A  that there was no 
change.
Miss P also sought to raise a dispute with a credit reference agency  but this was 
declined as the information was accurate.
Miss P contacted us in 2021 but was told about the Scheme of Arrangement that 
Provident had proposed. At which point a further hold was placed on her account.
In February 2022 when Miss P received the letter saying the account was being 
passed back to Provident it encouraged her to contact us. She spoke to Company A 
at the time, and it had no record of Provident trying to recall the balance.
The account was only closed and returned due to the status of Provident.
Miss P also says that she should be given the amount of money that was offset (plus 
8%) because Provident didnt do what it said it would do and shed now be in the same 
position  with the balance written off following the Scheme of Arrangement.
The adjudicator went back to Miss P and explained why her points hadnt changed her
mind about the case. She said that there was another case on our system about another
lender recording a default in 2015, and so this wouldve been visible at the time of the
mortgage application. She was also satisfied that the refund that Provident paid to Miss P
was correct and she didnt think it would be fair to refund the amount that was offset
because it was capital that was owed.
Provident didnt respond to either of the adjudicators assessments.
Miss P didnt agree and provided further points which Ive considered and outlined below.
Miss P wasnt able to add her name to her partners mortgage and this was declined
due to her credit score.
No company ever supplies the exact reason why credit may have been declined and
Miss P cant provide any further information about that.
The point about the previous default was corrected after her complaint was
` considered by the Financial Ombudsman.
Miss P reiterated that Provident held back some of the refund to clear a loan with
Company A which didnt happen as Provident didnt do this the funds belonged to
Miss P.
Had Provident paid all the compensation to her, Miss P couldve paid Company A
directly and settled the balance and credit file long ago.
As no agreement had been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.After the complaint was passed to me, further information was requested from Miss P about 
her contact with Company A. She didnt have any further evidence to provide  but did say 
she would contact them to ask if they could provide a list of emails or calls that she made to 
it about this matter.
However, no further response had been received and I felt I was able to issue a provisional 
decision on this matter. I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I 
was intending to uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
A copy of the findings from my provisional findings follow this in smaller font and italics and 
form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything that has been provided by Provident and Miss P Im
intending to partly uphold her complaint and Ive set out why below.
It is clear an error has been made here. Provident ought to have, in or around
December 2019 used the refund that it was due to give Miss P to offset the outstanding
balance held with Company A. It is clear this ought to have been done and wasnt.
It seems, that the outstanding balance has now been written off and Miss P isnt being asked
to either pay the balance or is being chased by Company A for it. However, what I cant be
sure about is whether Provident has deleted the loan from the credit file, as it said it would
do in 2019. I deal with this element in the putting things right section below.
But I say no more about the error because what Im being asked to decide is whether the
compensation payment Provident has already offered is sufficient, given the circumstances
of this case.
Ive seen an email from Miss Ps financial adviser in July 2020  so around seven months
after the adverse information ought to have been removed. The email does suggest that
Miss P couldnt be added to a mortgage because the illustration in the email was only for
Miss Ps partner.
Unfortunately, in this case I dont have a copy of Miss Ps credit file so I dont know whether
there was any other information that may have been taken into account by the mortgage
company before it declined her application.
I appreciate that Miss P says companies wont ever provide the exact reason why a
mortgage will be declined, but without a credit file and something from the mortgage
company I cant say for sure whether there were other factors that it may have taken in to
account.
But what I do think is fair to say, is that clearly, having an account that was open with
Company A and no payments being made towards it, wouldve had quite a significant impact
on any application for credit. But I cant say for sure the sole reason for the declined
mortgage application was as a result of the incorrect information Provident had not removed.
In addition, Miss P has also shown that she tried to resolve this situation by contacting a
credit reference agency directly to raise a dispute about the record. This was an option that
was open to Miss P but really ought to not have been needed because Provident ought to
have updated the credit file by recalling the debt.I dont have a copy of the response from the credit reference agency, but given the record
remained on her file, until it was recalled in February 2022 does lead me to conclude that the
request to make the adjustment to the credit file was rejected. Whether it was right or wrong
for this amendment to be rejected, isnt something that I can comment on but what this does
show is that Miss P was taking steps to try correct her credit file when she really need not
have done so.
Miss P has been asked, and as far as I can see has tried to obtain further details from
Company A about the contact, she has had with it. She hasnt, to date had a response, but
Ive seen nothing to make me think she wouldnt have contacted them about this issue. After
all, she contacted the credit reference agencies, so I think its fair to conclude that she
wouldve had some contact with Company A about what it was doing with her outstanding
balance.
Equally, Provident hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a file to outline its
position or responded to the adjudicators assessment. So again, I cant see what it did to try
and resolve the case and or why it didnt do what it said it was going to do. This also, may
have highlighted any contact from Miss P after January 2020 when she tried to get this
matter resolved.
Miss P accepts that this issue did drift, and she provided some reasons why  such as the
pandemic and the situation with Provident. I can quite understand that this may not have
been her priority especially if she wasnt seeking credit at the time, but I dont think that
necessarily reduces the distress caused because ultimately, Provident hadnt done what it
said it was going to do and Miss P was aware of this.
Miss P has in effect said, that she had adverse information on her credit file, showing an
outstanding balance and do payments being made for 26 months longer than she was
expecting given the offer that Provident made.
So, I now needed to consider what is fair compensation. Miss P has said she should be
given at the least, 8% simple interest on the sum Provident withheld from her refund
because this wasnt used to repay Company A (or to have the debt recalled) as Provident
said it would.
Ive thought about this carefully, but for similar reasons as the adjudicator explained I dont
think this would be a fair outcome. Miss P was always due to repay the capital amount she
owed on her loan (equivalent to the sum Provident withheld). So, what ought to have
happened is Provident sorted out the outstanding loan and that wouldve been the end of it.
Although Provident didnt do this, that doesnt mean that Miss P gets either the funds back or
8% simple interest because it was money that she was always due to repay and what was
owed. So, there isnt any direct financial loss as a result of that  meaning she isnt out of
pocket because for example Provident withheld too much money (or too little). The issue
here is that Provident didnt do what it said it would do.
But, I can see and I am prepared to accept that this issue has been ongoing for far too long
 and to be clear  I still dont know whether the record has been deleted as Provident said it
would be  so I am going to direct Provident to do that, in this case if it hasnt been done.
But, given the evidence Miss P has provided, the fact this went on for over two years, she
had to chase Company A, the credit reference agency and the Financial Ombudsman
Service to try and resolve something that Provident hadnt agreed to, wouldve caused her
distress and inconvenience. Especially, knowing the information was still there and she
wasnt getting anywhere with Provident. Given these factors I dont think £250 that Provident
has offered is enough.
Taking everything into account, including all the factors listed above, I consider a fair and
reasonable outcome to be a further award by Provident to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused to Miss P. Having thought about everything I consider a further
payment of £250 bringing the total compensation to £500 to be fair and reasonable.Response to provisional decision 
Both Miss P and Provident were asked to provide anything further for my consideration  
before issuing the final decision, as soon as possible but no later than 26 August 2022. 
Provident didnt respond or acknowledge the provisional decision. 
Miss P called the Financial Ombudsman Service and confirmed she accepted the findings. 
She then followed this up with an email, which Ive summarised below;
A previous default was removed from her credit file and this was before she applied 
to be added to her partners mortgage  which is why she believes the reason for the 
declined application was down to Providents information.
She confirmed she spoke to the third-party debt collection agent but would need to 
carry out a data subject access request in order to receive evidence of its contact. 
Later, Miss P confirmed the Provident loan had been removed from her credit file. 
As the deadline for further submissions has now expired, Im proceeding on the basis that 
Provident doesnt have anything further to add  the final decision follows. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P says she agreed with the findings of the provisional decision but I wanted to address 
her comments she made in the email to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Firstly, it is frustrating that when Miss P requested to do a data subject access request by 
the third party in order to obtain details of her contact with it. But as she can see from the 
provisional decision, I dont think seeing all the contact would make any difference to the 
outcome that Ive reached as Ive accepted that this did likely occur. 
Secondly, I did think about the mortgage application. While I do accept Providents incorrect 
information may have played a part in her request being declined, as Ive not seen anything 
from the prospective mortgage lender to confirm the sole reason for decline was due to 
Providents error I wasnt, in this case, able to make a specific award for it or award 
compensation for any potential financial loss. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons as I did in the 
provisional decision and Ive outlined below Provident needs to do to put things right for 
Miss P. 
I accept Miss P says the loan has been removed from her credit file, but Ive kept the first 
bullet point of the redress in to make sure that Provident checks to ensure this has 
happened. 
Putting things right
In order to put thing right, Provident should carry out the following.
Provident should, if it hasnt already done so remove the loan from Miss Ps credit file
in line with what it agreed to do in 2019.
It should pay Miss P a further £250 taking the total award of compensation to £500.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ps 
complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for Miss P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman