DRN-2241752
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 1992 in connection with a mortgage. It provided cover for Mr A if 
he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr As needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr A the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr A is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr A says Halifax put him under pressure to buy the PPI, but he repeatedly refused to buy it. 
Even though Halifax has provided a copy of the PPI application he completed, and certificate 
of insurance, Mr A points out that a later letter from Halifax suggests he hadnt made a 
definite decision about buying the PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr A has said, and Ive also reviewed the documents 
from the time his mortgage was arranged. Ive also kept in mind that these events took place 
many years ago, and that its possible that exact recollections of what happened can fade 
over time.
I can see that the PPI section of Mr As mortgage application was completed to show that 
PPI wasnt required. This supports what Mr A has said about not wanting the policy.
But it seems he completed a PPI application a few months later, in January 1992. It wasnt 
unusual for PPI applications to be made later in a mortgage process, even if the cover was 
initially turned down.
The application document said:
Complete and return this form...You will be asked to complete a standing order for premium 
payments from your Investment account with the Society.
The cover started on 3 February 1992. But on 31 March Mr A received a letter from Halifax 
that said:
I refer to your Mortgage Payments Protection application and would be grateful if you could 
confirm whether you still intend to proceed with the application.
If the application is to proceed, please complete the enclosed standing order with your 
investment account details.
Mr A says this letter in March shows his cover wasnt in place in February. Whether it was or 
wasnt I dont think matters. It looks to me likely Mr A completed his mortgage application in 
February but hadnt yet completed his standing order to finalise the process. It looks like it 
was a two stage process. The letter in March seems to me to indicate that Halifax was 
asking for the standing order to be returned and I think its likely Mr A completed this and 
returned it to Halifax after receipt of that letter. And I think Mr A wouldve understood what 
the standing order was for. On balance, I think its unlikely that Halifax wouldve maintained 
the cover for Mr A if he hadnt provided the standing order details it needed.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Halifax didnt make Mr 
A aware he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr A to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr A was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr A says he was entitled to generous employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings. Mr A says his employer benefits 
meant he didnt need the PPI. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr As employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr A could use his employer benefits and savings to 
pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to him, despite 
his existing arrangements. 
- Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medicalconditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- The PPI cost was set out in the application Mr A completed, so seems he knew what 
he would be paying for the cover and found it acceptable. The policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr A
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr A wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr A would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would 
still have taken out the policy.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman