DRN-4393692
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claim under 
her pet policy and unreasonably imposed an exclusion.
What happened
Mrs R applied for her policy for her cat in December 2022 and the start date of her policy 
was 26 December 2022. 
In the application process she answered no to the question has [name of pet] ever shown 
any sign of injury or illness or been unwell? We need to know anything you have noticed or 
discussed with your vet or any other professional about [name of pet] health or behaviour. 
Even if there was nothing to be concerned about and the problem resolved quickly. 
Pinnacle said when Mrs R made her claim for her cats illness, a blocked bladder, in 
February 2023, it asked for her cats history from her vet. It noticed that on 21 November 
2022 the vet history showed her cat had some blood in his urine and he was given some 
Synulox tablets plus some Metacam. Given Mrs R didnt mention this in answering the above 
question, Pinnacle placed a reviewable exclusion on Mrs Rs policy for urinary problems to 
be reviewed in March 2025.
Mrs Rs claim for her cats treatment was for a blocked bladder and since that was a urinary 
problem which was now excluded, Pinnacle refused to pay Mrs Rs claim. 
As Pinnacle wouldnt change its stance Mrs R brought her complaint to us. The investigator 
was of the view that Pinnacle hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs R disagreed so her complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I do appreciate Mrs R will be very 
disappointed, but Ill explain why Pinnacle was entitled to do this. 
In insurance applications there is a duty on consumers to answer all the questions asked as 
accurately as possible. Mrs Rs cat did have a problem with blood in his urine in November 
2022. Thankfully it seemed to clear up following medication. Unfortunately, however Mrs R 
didnt explain this in her application and in answering the question above. 
So, when Pinnacle saw this in her cats vet history it applied the provisions of the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act (CIDRA). It said that because Mrs R didnt 
answer the question accurately that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one under 
CIDRA. And I consider thats correct under the CIDRA provisions. So that meant it then had 
to look at what it would have done had it known about her cats urinary problem in 2022. So, 
it looked at its underwriting guide which told it had it known about this issue it would have 
excluded claims in relation to urinary problems and it would be reviewed in two years. So 
thats what it did with the cover on Mrs Rs policy. Theres nothing wrong with Pinnacle doing 
this, as the provisions of CIDRA permitted it to do this. And in effect, it puts the situation 
back in the position it would have been in had the answer to that question been answered 
accurately by Mrs R. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Rs claim also concerned a urinary problem. It was a different type of 
urinary problem as there is no evidence that they are connected but nevertheless it is a 
urinary problem which is presently excluded from cover. Had Mrs Rs claim been about 
something else entirely and unconnected to any urinary problem then in all likelihood her 
claim would have been valid and then paid.
It is standard industry practice not to examine every pets vet history on application so as to 
underwrite it fully before issuing the policy. The regulator, namely The Financial Conduct 
Authority permits this. This is largely because of the duty on consumers to answer the 
questions asked accurately and then the remedies are provided by CIDRA if there was any 
issue in the accuracy of answering the questions. I consider the question asked was clear 
too and not misleading in any way. So consequently, I consider Pinnacle didnt do anything 
wrong. I also consider its reasonable that the exclusion is reviewable after two years.
So, in conclusion Pinnacle has done nothing wrong here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman