DRN-3616114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection plans in 2002 and 2003.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F originally arranged the mortgage in 2002 and also took out PPI which was free 
for 12 months. In 2003 they took out a further advance. At that time the first PPI policy was 
cancelled and they were sold a new policy that covered both the original mortgage and the 
further advance.
Mr F suffered an injury in 2016 and therefore made a sickness claim on the policy which, as I 
understand it, paid out for the full 12 months maximum available under the policy terms. 
However, Mr F was subsequently made redundant by his employer on the grounds of 
incapacity. Mr F then made a claim for unemployment which was declined by the insurer on 
the basis that he had not returned to work for 30 days prior to becoming unemployed.
In responding to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the policy having been mis-sold, 
Nationwide upheld the complaint about the 2002 sale. However, as no premiums had been 
paid, no compensation was due to them. Nationwide said that the 2003 policy was not mis-
sold. However, Nationwide did offer to refund the premiums that Mr and Mrs F paid for the 
period from the end of Mr Fs sickness claim until the policy was cancelled in February 2020, 
plus interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say they wanted PPI to cover their mortgage repayments against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. So there is no suggestion that they werent given a choice 
about buying the policy.
However, Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs F with sufficient information for them to 
be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
I think that Mr and Mrs F would have known something about the policy  that it would 
provide cover for their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Mr and Mrs F say they have never seen the policy document. However, Ive seen a copy of 
the mortgage offer letter that Nationwide sent to them on 25 February 2002 which says that 
the policy document was enclosed. However, Im mindful that Mr and Mrs F made their 
decision to buy the policy in advance of seeing the policy document.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it did not cover. However, if there were any failings 
on the part of Nationwide, I need to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs F suffered loss as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether 
or not they would still have taken out the policy if Nationwide had done things properly.
I consider it unlikely that Nationwide highlighted the 30 day re-qualification clause in the 
policy. However, Mr and Mrs F have themselves said that they never imagined themselves 
in a scenario where Mr F would be too sick to work again or lose his job after an injury. 
Therefore, even if they had been told about this clause at the time, I dont think it would have 
changed their minds about buying the policy and they would have taken it out anyway. 
Which means they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
Its an awful thing that happened to Mr F, none of which was his fault, and I fully appreciate 
that he fought hard to keep the job that hed had for so long. Mr and Mrs F have said they 
feel very strongly that the policy should provide cover for long-term sickness and 
unemployment resulting from it. However, there are different insurance products to cover 
different sorts of risks. This is a typical mortgage payment protection policy that is intended 
to cover mortgage repayments for a relatively short defined period.  And it is not unusual for 
such policies to have limitations around from switching from a disability claim to an 
unemployment claim and vice versa. Cover of the nature Mr and Mrs F talk about is 
available in income protection policies and it was up to Mr and Mrs F to source the type of 
insurance they felt would meet their needs.
In this case the complaint is against the seller, Nationwide, who is also the lender, but who is 
not the insurer. The terms have been put into the contract by the insurer and can only be 
exercised by the insurer. So what the insurer can and cant do and whether it has acted 
unfairly or not isnt something I can consider here.
On another matter, Mr and Mrs F have said that they arranged the policy to cover both of 
them equally but when Mrs F tried to claim in 2015 after being made redundant, she was told 
that the policy only covered Mr F. This decision is only looking at whether or not the policy 
was mis-sold, so I cannot look at that issue here. If they wish, Mr and Mrs F would need to 
make another complaint about the policy being amended without their consent. However, I 
would say that, if the policy had been split 50/50 between them, Mr F would only have 
received half the amount in benefit that he received from his sickness claim. Therefore, it is 
likely that Mr and Mrs F are no worse off as a result of the policy being either set up or 
amended to cover just Mr F.
In summary, Im unable to conclude that the PPI was mis-sold. I consider that Nationwides 
offer of £696.14 to refund the premiums paid from the end of Mr Fs claim to when the policy 
was cancelled is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman