DRN-3684390
The complaint
Ms M complains that she took benefits at normal retirement age from a Zurich Assurance 
Limited (formerly Eagle Star) annuity but did not receive the first instalment until 29 days 
after her normal retirement age. She feels that she has not had a pension payment for this 
period and has lost out as a result. She would like Zurich to pay her a pension payment for 
those 29 days.
What happened
Ms Ms former employer had set up a pension scheme with Eagle Star. Ms M joined the 
scheme in December 1992 and her normal retirement date was 3 December 2020. 
In 1999 Eagle Star became part of Zurich, and policies like Ms Ms were transferred. Zurich 
explain that Ms Ms policy had the same terms and conditions as before.
By July 2020 Ms M was preparing to take her scheme benefits. These would be in the form 
of a lifetime annuity, the terms of which were determined by the scheme rules.
She was given an illustration for the annuity dated 9 July which she signed and dated on 21 
July. The illustration showed a retirement date of 3 December, and an annuity amount 
payable in monthly instalments for life from 1 January 2021.
Ms M contacted Zurich on 4 December to query why she had not received her first payment 
the day before. Zurich confirmed that the annuity had been set up with a retirement date of 3 
December, but that the terms of the policy meant that the first payment would be received on 
1 January 2021. 
Ms M complained to Zurich on 15 December that she would not receive a pension payment 
for the first 29 days of her retirement, which she felt amounted to a change in the terms of 
the annuity contract on Zurichs part.
Zurich responded to her complaint on 8 February (although unfortunately Ms M did not 
receive that letter and only got a copy on 19 March) that the payment schedule was in line 
with the Scheme Rules and Terms and Conditions. 
Ms M did not accept this view, believing that the payment terms amounted to age 
discrimination as those who were born earlier in the month would have to wait longer for 
their first payment. The complaint was referred to this service to be resolved.
Our investigator said that they thought that Zurich did not need to take any further action as 
they had followed the scheme rules. Ms M did not accept that opinion. She thought it was 
unfair that the period from 3 December to 1 January did not attract a pension payment, and 
she also felt that this amounted to age discrimination based on the day of the month in which 
annuitants were born.
The case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Zurich have acted fairly in setting up and paying Ms Ms 
annuity. 
The scheme rules which dictated the terms of the annuity state that unless otherwise 
specially arranged pension payments would be payable by monthly instalments on the first 
day of each month, the first monthly payment falling due on the first day of the month next 
following the date of retirement (or if retirement takes place on the first day of the month, on 
the date of retirement). For Ms M, that meant 1 January 2021.
Ms M said that she didnt really notice the payment date on the illustration, but I am not sure 
that is important. In all of the correspondence over the years her retirement date is referred 
to as 3 December; but equally the payment date was always stated to be the first of the 
following month. These were the terms on offer and I have seen no evidence that she was 
misled about them at any stage.
So I find that in setting up Ms Ms annuity Zurich acted in line with the scheme rules. I do not 
think that they did anything wrong in making the first payment on 1 January because this 
payment date was always part of the conditions of the policy. 
Ms M is disappointed because she feels that the period from 3 December, when she 
reached her Normal Retirement Age, until 1 January when she received the first instalment, 
did not attract a pension payment. She said in her complaint to this service that she felt that 
she had missed out on that payment. Im afraid that I do not agree with her analysis 
because, for the reasons given above, Miss Ms annuity should only have started paying 
from 1 January  there was no entitlement to an earlier payment.  
I understand that Ms M feels that the payment terms amount to age discrimination based on 
when in the month someone was born. But the same payment terms would apply if the 
policyholder was a year older, or a year younger than Ms M. Zurich were entitled to apply the 
terms of Ms Ms policy as long as those terms didnt treat her in a way that was inherently 
unfair. 
Ive considered the impact of the Equality Act 2010 on this case. Specifically, Ive considered 
the aim of the legislation regarding age discrimination. Which is to protect people from being 
treated in a less favourable way than others because of their age. In making a determination 
though, I am applying a test of what I think is fair and reasonable. I dont think that what 
Zurich were doing here was unreasonable. Zurich were honouring the terms of the 
agreement set up in the 1990s. Based on what Ive seen I do not think Zurich applying this 
term of Ms Ms policy amounted to unfair treatment based on age.
My final decision
I am not going to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I do not require Zurich Assurance Limited to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Martin CatherwoodOmbudsman