DRN-4261492
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from Nationwide Building
Society surrounding a branch visit.
What happened
Mr C visited a Nationwide branch in July 2022 to pay in a cheque and instruct a transfer from
his account. Nationwide felt that Mr C couldnt verify his identity, despite Mr C presenting
identity verification documents to them, including his passport. Mr C was then seen by the
branch manager who provided a poor standard of service to him, including pausing his help
with Mr C to give assistance to another customer.
Mr C was also made to wait in several queues and spent over two hours in branch, only to
be then told that he couldnt be helped that day and would need to come back. Mr C wasnt
happy with the service hed received from Nationwide, and he felt that Nationwide hadnt
taken due account of his disabilities. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr C and explained they didnt feel Mr C had given them enough
information to be able to conduct a thorough investigation into his complaint, despite their
asking Mr C for this more detailed information. And Nationwide didnt feel the information
they did have was sufficient for them to reasonably uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C wasnt
satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that it could be
reasonably said that Nationwide had acted unfairly to Mr C, given the limited information that
Mr C had provided, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C remained dissatisfied, so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 July 2023 as follows:
It's clear from Mr Cs submissions to this service that hes unhappy about the service 
he received at Nationwides branch. But as an impartial service, we must consider 
both Mr Cs and Nationwides understanding of what happened. And while 
Nationwide do have a record of Mr C visiting their branch in July 2022, they dont 
have any record of Mr C interacting with the branch manager or being told that he 
couldnt be helped that day and that he would have to return to branch at another 
time. And Nationwide also dont have any record of there being any trouble trying to 
verify Mr Cs identity.
Mr C has been asked to provide further information about his complaint by both 
Nationwide and this service, but so far hasnt done so. Indeed, Ive asked Mr C to 
provide answers to specific questions about his complaint. Mr C responded and 
advised that the had already given the answers to these questions to this service in 
his previous submissions. But, having re-reviewed Mr Cs submissions to this 
service, I confirmed to him that the answers to the questions Id asked werent 
included in the information hed given to date.
This makes it very difficult for me to consider upholding Mr Cs complaint at this time. 
For instance, while Mr C has explained that he was made to wait in several different 
queues, he hasnt explained why he was asked to wait in these queues or what each 
queue was for. The absence of this information means that Nationwide havent been 
given the opportunity to respond to a more detailed description of the poor service 
that Mr C feels that hes received. And I also dont feel that Im able to reasonably 
assess whether Mr C was treated unfairly here, given that without further information 
I cant discount the possibility that Mr C being asked to wait in these queues was 
necessary for what he wanted to achieve on that day.
However, Im also mindful of Mr Cs disabilities as hes described them to this 
service. And so, Id like to give Mr C one final opportunity to provide the more 
detailed information Ive asked of him  the receipt of which I hope will enable me to 
investigate Mr Cs complaint in the impartial manner that Im duty bound to undertake 
as a financial ombudsman.
As such, Im issuing a provisional decision here whereby I do not uphold this 
complaint. This is because I dont feel that the information currently provided to this 
service by Mr C provides any fair or reasonable cause for me to do so. But in issuing 
this decision on a provisional basis, I also provide Mr C with a last opportunity to 
provide detailed answers to the following questions:
1: In your complaint youve said that you received poor service from 
Nationwide in branch. Please can you elaborate on this and in as much detail 
as possible describe the poor service that you received?
2: What reason did Nationwide give when they said they couldnt verify your
identity? Why did verifying your identity take so long?
3: What do you feel Nationwide should have done differently? What service
should you have received?
4: In your complaint youve said that because Nationwide gave you poor 
service, you had to visit the branch again the next day. Why did you need the 
visit the branch again the next day? What did you have to do during that 
second visit?
5: In your complaint youve said that Nationwide ignored your disabilities. Why
do you feel this way? What do you feel Nationwide should have done
differently?
I would like to reiterate to Mr C that the answers to these questions arent apparent 
from the information that hes provided to this service so far. Id also like to confirm to 
Mr C that he can provide the answers to these questions in whatever format is most 
convenient for him  for instance, in writing or by telephone  and I invite Mr C to 
contact this service if he requires any assistance in any way regarding this matter.
Importantly, I must confirm to Mr C that if I dont receive any responses to the 
questions listed above, I feel that I will no choice other than to issue a final decision 
whereby his complaint will not be upheld for the reasons described above.Finally, should Mr C provide detailed answers to the questions asked of him above, it 
doesnt necessarily follow from this that I will uphold his complaint. This is because, 
as explained, Im asking the above questions to get a better understanding of Mr Cs 
complaint so that I can fairly consider it.
Mr C did respond to my provisional decision letter, but unfortunately didnt provide answers 
to any of the above listed questions. As such, as explained in my provisional letter, I dont 
feel that Im unable to uphold this complaint as Mr C would like.
Accordingly, my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Nationwide to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, 
but I hope hell understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman