DRN-1734826
 
Complaint          
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with BoS in 1989. They werent sold PPI at this stage. 
However, it appears they took out a further advance in 1992 and the PPI was sold to them at 
this time. 
Although the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mr D. It would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I will now explain 
why.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs D say they werent given a 
choice about taking PPI. They say they were forced to take it and were told that their 
mortgage offer would be withdrawn if they didnt take PPI out. BoS disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily in such cases I would look to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have 
happened. But, unfortunately, BoS no longer have the documents from the time of sale. 
However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale, so I cant hold this 
against BoS. But what it does mean is that I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mr and Mrs D didnt choose to 
take it out. Particularly given that Mr and Mrs D didnt take out PPI when they first took out 
the mortgage  it was sold to them some three years later. So it looks like they would have 
been aware that the mortgage wasnt conditional on them taking out PPI and I am unable to 
place weight on their recollection that the mortgage offer would have been withdrawn if they 
didnt take PPI. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs D were pressured into take PPI.I appreciate that being forced to take out PPI is Mr and Mrs Ds main complaint point but as I 
havent upheld their complaint on that point, Ive gone on to consider the other aspects of the 
sale to check if Mr and Mrs D were mis-sold PPI for any other reason.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr D was eligible for the policy. And based on Mr Ds age 
and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr D would have been eligible.
BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs D to take PPI. This means they would have had to take 
adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. I dont know whether they 
took all the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
Although Mr D has told us he wouldve been entitled to pay from his employer if he 
was off work sick, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and would have 
been particularly helpful when Mr Ds sick pay reduced to half. It would also have 
paid out if he lost his job in addition to any redundancy pay he may have been 
entitled to. The mortgage was a long term commitment and repeated claims under 
the policy would have been possible.
 
Mr D has mentioned he would have had savings at the time of the sale. But there is  
no guarantee that the savings would still have been available if/when the need arose. 
In any event Mr and Mrs D could have used the savings for other essential living 
expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage repayments. I appreciate what Mr 
and Mrs D say about their parents being able to help but circumstances change so 
again this help was not guaranteed. And ultimately the mortgage was only Mr and 
Mrs Ds responsibility.
 
Mr and Mrs D could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, BoS also had to give them 
clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.
It's possible that BoS didnt give Mr and Mrs D all of the information as they should have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them. 
So I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs D this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Bank of Scotalnd plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman