DRN-4268999
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative (The Co-op) Bank Plc caused his personal
information to be given to a third party after his account was compromised.
What happened
Mr W was the victim of an account takeover by an unauthorised third party who was able to
utilise funds in it before it was blocked. A separate complaint about the situation was made
by Mr W and a final decision was issued.
When Mr W brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, he also raised an
issue concerning his belief that The Co-op had breached data protection regulations by
disclosing his personal information to the fraudster. This was an additional element to his
complaint and at the time, The Co-op hadnt had the opportunity to address this particular
issue. Mr W was invited to raise this separately with The Co-op and then bring the complaint
to our service if he wished to do so.
Mr W raised the breach with The Co-op who acknowledged the complaint but didnt issue
him with a final response. Mr W then brought his complaint to our service for an independent
review.
Mr W argues that during various conversations held with the fraudster, The Co-op disclosed
personal information about him. The Co-op have since argued that the information contained
in the conversations was security information, rather than personal information and no
breach occurred.
Theres a disagreement about what exactly some of those details held by The Co-op were.
Mr W believes that some of the security information held by The Co-op was incorrect and
The Co-op believe that Mr W is mistaken about some of those details.
The investigator who looked into the complaint didnt uphold it but acknowledged there had
been a data breach when The Co-op disclosed information about the funds held in the
account. But, she couldnt comment on whether The Co-op had failed to follow their own
processes (which Mr W believed was the cause of the breach) because this had been part of
the original decision from the earlier complaint.
Mr W disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint. Many of Mr Ws comments
relate to the previous complaint issues and are essentially a continuation of that complaint.
As Ive already issued a decision about that, Im unable to further comment. I have however,
read all of Mr Ws additional points and accept that he has been left unsatisfied by The Co-
ops responses.
But, I will say that Mr W wanted to understand the extent of the knowledge obtained by the
fraudster (quite reasonably) and my understanding is that hes now in possession of those
details from the phone calls between The Co-op and the fraudster.
Mr Ws comments concluded with his belief that there was a data breach and:
The Co-op failed to complete adequate security checks, and this is a breach of the
terms and conditions.
Mr W is entitled to know the full extent of that breach.
The banks response to the original decision is incomplete.

As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me. I issued my 
provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ws complaint on 30 June 2023. In my provisional 
findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ws complaint and offered both sides the 
opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that decision 
is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W was the victim of an account takeover when an unidentified third party was able to gain
access to his account held with The Co-op. I recognise that this would no doubt have been a
worrying time for him.
As previously mentioned, Ive already dealt with the substantive issues concerning this
matter and dont intend to go over the original complaint again. As a decision has already
been issued on those matters, Im unable to further comment. Some of Mr Ws comments
relate to how The Co-op have responded to the directions contained within the decision.
That decision was our services final word on the issues I considered and enforcement of
that decision is now a matter for the courts. However, I understand from Mr W that he
wanted information about a call that wasnt included in the original response from the Co-op
and that has since been provided to him. So, I hope that Mr W has a better understanding of
the extent of the original compromise of his account.
Mr Ws current complaint relates to whether The Co-op disclosed personal information about
him, and he believes that The Co-op failed to follow their own procedures which led to it. The
Co-op didnt provide Mr W with a final response to his complaint. I didnt think was
particularly helpful to Mr W.
The Co-op have argued that security information isnt personal information because it can
be fictionalised or just made-up information. Security information in this context is the data
used to confirm the caller is the account holder when they speak with The Co-op.
The Co-op are under an obligation to protect Mr Ws personal data, whether they class it as
security information or not.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) defines personal data as:
Personal data only includes information relating to natural persons who:
can be identified or who are identifiable, directly from the information in question; or
who can be indirectly identified from that information in combination with other
information.
Here, Mr W provided information about himself to The Co-op to satisfy their security
information needs when accessing his account. Some of those details related to specific
aspects from Mr Ws life, including details of schools attended and place of birth.
So here, I dont agree with the position taken by The Co-op that they believe security
information cant be a cause to breach data security regulations. If The Co-op hold personaldata relating to Mr W and they disclose it to a third party  its difficult to see how thats not
an unauthorised disclosure. Whether there was a breach of The Co-ops procedures or not
doesnt particularly impact whether the disclosure happened. Firms are required to guard
against the disclosure to those falsely posing as the genuine account holder.
Whilst its for the ICO, as the regulator, to make any determination about whether The Co-op
has breached the relevant legislation here, Im able to assess the issue in relation to Mr Ws
complaint and the impact this had on him.
Theres no doubt here that the unidentified third party already had some information about
Mr W, including his name and address, so his identity was already known. But, the
information disclosed by The Co-op could only add to the knowledge of the fraudster.
Mr W hasnt sought additional compensation here, but to receive an acknowledgement from
The Co-op that they caused him unnecessary additional stress by their handling of his
situation by failing to tell him about the breach of his information. Also, he sought clarification
by The Co-op concerning the specific personal information they disclosed to the fraudster.
Mr W also wanted additional information which primarily relates to the previous decision.
Regarding the issue of what exactly the information held by The Co-op was, Im aware
theres some disagreement. But here, I dont think its of particular relevance to this
complaint. Those details previously held by The Co-op can be amended by agreement with
both parties, so the issue of what was recorded can be updated as necessary (if it already
hasnt been). What is of relevance is the data breach and how that impacted Mr W.
My initial thoughts here are that The Co-op disclosed personal information to an
unauthorised third party and failed to notify Mr W of those details. Im currently intending to
uphold this complaint. Im aware that information concerning the missing call has already
been given to Mr W, so Ill recommend that The Co-op tell Mr W the specific personal
information related to this complaint that they disclosed to the unauthorised third party 
where this information hasnt already been provided to him. Also, to make an apology to him
for their handling of the issue. Whilst I acknowledge the unnecessary stress and
inconvenience caused to Mr W, Im not aware that he suffered any further impact from the
way that his personal information was handled by The Co-op.
I invited Mr W and The Co-op to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. The Co-op clarified that information 
contained in the first call was omitted by error and they believed that all personal information 
contained in the calls with the fraudster had been disclosed to Mr W.
Mr W made further comments:
He wanted to know if the data breach extended to any other type of access  in 
particular Mr W believed that the fraudster had accessed his online banking account.
Mr W made further comments regarding the previous decision and how its bound to 
this one.
Further correspondence was entered into between all the parties and The Co-op provided 
summaries of their contact with the fraudster to Mr W. He remained unsatisfied with how 
they dealt with his complaint and continued to believe that the fraudster had managed to 
compromise his online accounts.I asked The Co-op for evidence concerning this and theyve since been able to provide 
details that the fraudster didnt access Mr Ws online banking. The only contact was via 
telephone banking.
The Co-op asked if I could be specific when I gave direction concerning what should be 
disclosed to Mr W regarding any personal information that may have been passed to the 
fraudster.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
original opinion, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
I understand here that Mr W remains unsatisfied regarding The Co-ops conduct throughout 
this situation. Ill repeat here that I wont be commenting on how the previous decision has 
been dealt with, although I think its relevant to add that the omission of the first call (which 
contained personal information) has now been provided on several occasions to Mr W.
The Co-op have said this was a genuine error on their part and Im happy to accept their 
explanation for this. Ultimately, Mr W has the information concerning The Co-ops contact 
with the fraudster that should identify any personal information that may have been 
disclosed. 
The Co-ops systems prevent them from revealing certain information (by design) to ensure 
that information isnt readily available to unauthorised persons. So, some of the data cant be 
extracted  but as this information related to what Mr W registered with The Co-op  I dont 
think theres any particular impact on Mr W.
I understand Mr W believes that some of this information was wrong. Whilst that may be the 
case, the same information is capable of being changed by Mr W if he hasnt already done 
so. 
The Co-op provided evidence concerning the payment Mr W thought was done through 
online banking. Having examined it, Im satisfied there was no online banking access.
Regarding The Co-ops request for me to be specific relating to disclosure to Mr W. Whist Id 
like to be able to give specific direction, as Im not the owner of the data, I cant specify what 
they should or shouldnt reveal to Mr W. The Co-op have my explanation regarding their 
approach to security information and from that they can see if theres anything outstanding 
that they need to pass to Mr W. 
If The Co-op believe (as theyve stated) that all personal information has now been given to 
Mr W, then theyve nothing further to disclose. But, the responsibility to carry out the 
direction rests with The Co-op. 
Putting things right
Its now for The Co-op to tell Mr W the specific personal information related to this complaint 
that they disclosed to the unauthorised third party  where this information hasnt already 
been provided to him. Also, to make an apology to him for their handling of the issue, if they havent already done 
so. Whilst I acknowledge the unnecessary stress and inconvenience caused to Mr W, Im not 
aware that he suffered any further impact from the way that his personal information was 
handled by The Co-op.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc and 
theyre instructed to settle the complaint as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman