DRN-3020406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs G in case she 
became unemployed.
I sent Mr and Mrs G and Santander a provisional decision on 28 July 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold. I know 
this will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs G, but Ill explain my reasons.
This sale was two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
understandably, Santander dont still have the original documents from the sale of Mr and 
Mrs Gs PPI. But from what Ive seen of the sales process from the time, in order to get the 
policy Mr and Mrs G would need to have applied specifically for PPI, separately to applying 
for the mortgage itself. And the policys cost wouldve been set out separately to the cost of 
the lending  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage, it was an optional extra. Ive 
not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the time, not anything 
which shows that Mr and Mrs G were misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely 
that Santander made Mr and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so 
after so long.
Santander recommended the PPI for Mrs G, so it had to check it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mrs G was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. While Mrs G did have a pre-existing medical condition at the time, this 
wouldve only affected her if shed bought sickness cover  but she didnt buy sickness 
cover; she bought a cheaper policy with just unemployment cover. And her condition would 
not have prevented her from claiming for unemployment if shed needed to. I understand that 
Mrs G feels strongly about this point and has put in effort to evidence her medical condition  
and I am grateful for the help she gave our adjudicator. But Im afraid this condition was not 
relevant, as she didnt pay for sickness cover.
The policy would have paid out on top of Mrs Gs redundancy benefits and offered her much 
more comprehensive cover. I understand Mr and Mrs Gs family may have been happy to 
help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
mortgage was Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable if Santander had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. And 
ultimately, if Mr and Mrs G had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their 
home. So it seems reasonable that they insured Mrs G, to help protect their home.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mrs G wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs G could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Ive also considered the rules surrounding commission and profit share on PPI policies. But 
those rules only apply to agreements which started on or after 6 April 2007, or which were 
still running on 6 April 2008. Here, Mr and Mrs Gs agreement started in 2001 and ended in 
2005, so the rules about commission and profit share dont apply in this case.
Lastly, Mrs G pointed out that shed had a different PPI policy which got refunded, and I can 
completely understand why she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different cases, were sold using different methods at different times, and so 
on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on its 
individual merits, and Ive explained above why I do not currently think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 August 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs G nor Santander sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman