DRN-4494085
The complaint
Mrs D complains Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) have refused to refund her for a transaction 
on her account she says she didnt make.
Mrs D is represented in this complaint, but for ease when talking about the evidence 
provided and what weve been told I will just refer to Mrs D instead of Mrs Ds representative.
What happened
Mrs D says she doesnt recognise a transaction of £399 taken from her Halifax account on 
2 February 2023. She says she asked Halifax to refund this money, which they did, but then 
re-debited this amount without telling her. This caused her to go into an unarranged 
overdraft and has affected her wellbeing.
Halifax say they refunded Mrs D the disputed transaction amount while they investigated her 
claim, but they made her aware they might re-debit this amount later if her claim was 
unsuccessful. 
Halifax say Mrs Ds claim was unsuccessful because the transaction was made to an online 
payment platform (Ill call them B) which Mrs D has used several times in the past. Halifax 
contacted B and they provided evidence that the payment was made using Mrs D online 
account with them and her usual Halifax VISA card. 
Mrs D was not happy with the outcome of her claim. She says she did not make the payment 
and did not purchase anything via B for £399. So, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered this complaint against Halifax and decided that Halifax did not 
need to pay anything back to Mrs D. Mrs D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has raised several points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive 
considered everything she has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the 
outcome of the case. No discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the informal nature of 
our service.
Generally, Halifax can hold Mrs D liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transaction herself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulation 2017 (PSRs) and terms and conditions of her 
account.  
From what Ive seen, the payment was made using Mrs Ds Halifax VISA card through 
payment service B. And its been confirmed that Mrs Ds email address, genuine card and 
billing address were used to make the payment. Mrs D has also told us that her account with 
B was password protected and this password had never been shared with anyone else. In 
addition, Mrs D says she has only ever accessed her account with B via her phone (which is 
protected by facial recognition) and her laptop (which is password protected.) So, Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence to explain how someone else couldve made this transaction 
and therefore it seems likely that the payment was made by Mrs D herself. 
Ive thought about what Mrs D has said about the purchase being for a phone and that 
Halifax told her the phone was sent to Russia. We contacted B to confirm the delivery 
address but they said no address was listed. So, Ive not been given any evidence to support 
what Mrs D has said here, and in any event, this does not explain how someone couldve 
accessed Mrs Ds account with B and made the payment using her details.
Mrs D is also unhappy that Halifax re-debited the refunded amount without telling her. But 
Ive seen evidence that an email was sent out to Mrs D explaining Halifax would need to 
re-debit the account and she would need to ensure there are sufficient funds in her account. 
So, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong here.
Im sorry to hear Mrs D has not been keeping well. Im sure this outcome will come as a 
disappointment to her, but based on the evidence, and for all the reasons outlined above Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.    
  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman