DRN-4251602
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Legal & General Home Finance Limited caused unreasonable 
delays with their Lifetime Mortgage completion and theyve lost out as a result. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both sides with there having been lengthy 
exchanges in writing over what has happened previously, so I wont repeat this here. But in 
summary, Mrs and Mr G feel there has been a number of unreasonable delays added by 
Legal & General with both the application process and completion process.
A mortgage offer was issued on 12 October 2022 with an interest rate of 5.47% and this was 
valid until 1 December 2022. Legal & General provided a small extension on this offer until 7 
December 2022 but its solicitor was not satisfied with all responses received by this point 
and the offer was withdrawn. The primary reason for this was due to concerns over an 
existing charge/caution on Mrs and Mr Gs property relating to a previous mortgage with 
Lender A. 
Mrs and Mr G needed to reapply for their mortgage but due to the time that had passed, the 
interest rate on the new offer was higher than the previous one with this now being 6.64%. 
They think Legal & General should have accepted confirmation from their solicitor that 
Lender A was in the process of removing the previous caution and this was only declined 
because of increasing interest rates and Legal & General looking to increase the interest 
rate on Mrs and Mr Gs mortgage.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think Legal & General or its 
solicitor had added delays to the process and he believed it was more likely there was 
delays caused from Mrs and Mr Gs side. They had needed to change their solicitor during 
the process which he felt added some delay. But he initially thought Legal & General hadnt 
acted fairly as despite delays in the process, had it accepted the information provided in 
relation to the existing caution with Lender A, he thought the mortgage would have 
completed in time.  Legal & General disagreed and explained why it felt it was the 
responsibility of Mrs and Mr Gs solicitor to have made sure this was removed and 
evidenced ahead of the mortgage completion date. It highlighted the mortgage offer 
document which stipulates Legal & General are to hold the first legal charge on the property 
and that it cannot complete a lifetime mortgage until it has received all documents it needs to 
be satisfied with the title on the property.  This was set out from the start of the mortgage 
completion process and it felt it acted correctly when it said it couldnt accept an email from 
Lender A which stated the request for the charge to be removed had been made. This 
wasnt enough to satisfy it that the title on the property was correct and that it was happy to 
lend.
Our investigator reviewed the information and changed his original outcome. He had already 
explained that he believed delays had been caused by Mrs and Mr G in the process with 
their solicitor. But he now believed Legal & General was acting fairly when it didnt accept 
the information provided in relation to the charge with Lender A and it wasnt fair to expect it 
to provide the lending when there were concerns over the charge and security it would hold. 
Mrs G responded to explain why she disagreed. She didnt think the information provided 
was new and the investigator should have been aware of this from the start. She also felt 
Legal & General were failing to treat a vulnerable consumer fairly, highlighting Mr Gs health 
conditions. 
Our investigator explained that he had considered everything again and believed Lender A 
should have removed the caution previously. But Mrs and Mr Gs solicitor should have also 
made sure this was removed more promptly as it was a requirement of the mortgage offer 
and when this wasnt confirmed before the offer expired, Legal & General had not acted 
unreasonably when it declined to extend the offer again.  
As Mrs and Mr G disagreed with the view of our investigator, the complaint has been 
referred for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr G, but Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why I dont think it would be fair to ask Legal & General to amend the 
interest rate on Mrs and Mr Gs mortgage. I dont think it made an error which resulted in this 
not completing before the mortgage offer expired.
The questions to be determined on this complaint are whether there was a delay added by 
Legal & General. And did it act fairly when it declined to accept the assurance from Mrs and 
Mr G and Lender A about the removal of the caution. 
As a starting point, I dont think it can be disputed there was a delay at the start of the 
mortgage completion process, but this was not the fault of Legal & General. Mrs and Mr G 
changed their solicitor at the start and this meant that time was lost as there was effectively 
no one able to provide the information on their behalf as required by the mortgage offer. And 
it wouldnt be fair to say that any error was made when Legal & Generals solicitor sent 
information to the original solicitor as these were the details it had been provided with.
Equally, Ive not seen anything to indicate Legal & General or its solicitor acted unreasonably 
or added a delay to the mortgage completion process. It appears information was not 
provided as needed to it and this meant its solicitor needed to re-request information and 
clarity after documents had been sent. 
But even if a delay had been added, I think the mortgage would have completed ahead of 
the deadline of the mortgage offer expiring if Legal & Generals solicitor accepted the 
assurance given over the outstanding caution on the title of the property. But I dont think it 
acted unfairly when it said it could not accept what was provided.
The mortgage offer explains Legal & General will secure the mortgage by way of a first legal 
charge on the property and it cannot be completed until it is satisfied with the title of the 
property.
As the lender, Legal & General is entitled to be satisfied that it is able to provide any 
borrowing with suitable security. And while it had been confirmed that Lender A was taking 
steps to remove the caution, it hadnt been ahead of the mortgage offer expiring. 
This is not an unusual or unreasonable expectation and it was clearly set out within the offer 
document. And while I appreciate it may have been difficult for Mrs and Mr G and their solicitor to get confirmation of this being removed, it did need to be done ahead of the 
mortgage being drawn down. 
I understand why Mrs and Mr G may feel it would have been fair for Legal & General to 
extend their mortgage offer further, based on the assurance that the caution was being 
removed when confirmation it had already couldnt be provided. But there is no obligation on 
Legal & General to do this. And I cannot say it should now back date the rate to reflect what 
was first offered. Ultimately Mrs and Mr G were not able to provide what was needed to 
satisfy Legal & General with the title for their property and until this could be confirmed and it 
could satisfy its lending criteria, it was acting fairly when it didnt allow the mortgage to 
complete.
Mrs G has highlighted concerns about Legal & General not treating her and Mr G fairly 
based on his vulnerabilities and that she feels they are taking advantage of this. Im not 
persuaded this has happened, nor do I think it declined to increase the offer to take 
advantage of their situation. The deadline was extended to see if the completion could be 
made, but this extended deadline was missed. And as I feel the main cause of any delay 
was not the responsibility of Legal & General, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
expect it to increase the offer beyond the point it did. 
I dont think it has treated Mrs G and Mr G differently to anyone else and as Ive said earlier, 
what was required to be evidenced on their property title was not unusual or unreasonable. It 
follows that when this couldnt be evidenced as having been completed, I dont think Legal & 
General acted unfairly when it said it wasnt able to complete the mortgage sooner.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman