DRN-1569109
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1999 in connection with a mortgage. Ms O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Ms O took out a PPI policy alongside her mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She complains she 
doesnt recall anything to do with PPI at the time of the sale. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Ms O disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She confirmed 6 months 
full pay followed by 6 months half pay was her sick pay entitlement from her employer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Ms O aware she had a choice in buying the policy. Ms 
O cant remember anything about the sale.
There is limited information from the precise date of the sale. I dont think thats surprising 
given that the sale took place around 20 years ago. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Ms O has told me 
makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its 
more likely Bank of Scotland made it clear to Ms O she had a choice about the PPI, and she 
agreed to buy it although I can understand why she may not remember this now.
Bank of Scotland says the sale was advised. For advised sales the PPI information had to 
be clear enough for Ms O to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable for 
her needs. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for Ms O because she was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and she wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).I noted Ms O says she would have received some sick pay benefits from her employer. But 
the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. This would have been for longer 
than her employee benefits and would have also covered her if she was made redundant. 
So I don't think her employee benefits made the policy any less suitable for her.
I noted also that Ms O says she could have relied on her family and friends to pay her 
mortgage. But I dont think this support could be guaranteed for some unknown point in the 
future. So having the policy would have meant her mortgage repayment could be covered for 
a length of time if Ms O was unable to work. And as Ms O borrowed funds against a large 
and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on her home, I think having the 
security that her mortgage repayments would be made if Ms O was unable to work would 
have been important to her.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms 
O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But having decided Ms O chose to 
take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her so I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Ms O off from taking out the cover. And overall I dont think Ms O has 
lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Ms O. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Ms O has said 
and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands sales processes. And I dont think  on balance 
 I can fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman