DRN-1769898
 
The complaint
Mrs G complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. She says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mrs G took out 3 instalment loans from MYJAR between November 2016 
and April 2017. Ive enclosed a summary of Mrs Gs borrowing with MYJAR, based on the 
information it provided to us: 
Loan Taken Repaid Instalments AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 16/11/2016 27/01/2017 6 £275.00 £88
2 03/02/2017 31/03/2017 3 £200.00 £96
3 01/04/2017Outstanding* (see final 
decision section)6 £800.00 £238
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. But 
Mrs G doesnt agree with what they said so shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mrs Gs complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs G could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship for example, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the 
fact that MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mrs Gs complaint.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mrs G. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history to 
her with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
I think the financial checks which MYJAR most likely carried out in this case would have 
been quite basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the 
lending relationship, I think these types of checks were proportionate, given the overall 
number and circumstances of the 3 loans. For loans 1 and 2, for example, these seem to me 
to be fairly moderate amounts, particularly when considered against what Mrs G had 
declared her income to be. Both were also paid back, and although loan 3 was for a higher 
amount, Mrs Gs declared income of £3,000 per month (net) did seem at a level where the 
repayments were affordable and sustainable for her.
I do accept Mrs G says she was already finding it difficult to manage because of other 
factors in her life at the time and we do now know she struggled with the final loan. But Im 
afraid that at the time, I cant see that MYJAR would have had cause to suspect she couldnt 
pay the lending back for loans 1, 2 or 3. Clearly, if the lending had continued beyond that, I 
would have expected the financial checking process to become much more comprehensive. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but I dont think any of these loans were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 3. I dont direct 
MYJAR Limited to pay Mrs G any compensation in respect of these. 
*I note loan 3 was outstanding. Mrs G has questioned whether the outstanding balance quoted by 
MYJAR is correct and under the 100% overall repayment ceiling which MYJAR will be familiar with. 
Although not upholding the mis-sale complaint, I do require MYJAR to fully explain its loan 3 
calculations to Mrs G, as well as being sympathetic in any repayment plan it proposes to recover the 
outstanding debt for that loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman