DRN-4337681
The complaint
Mr B, through a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains that he was given 
unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc, referred to as the business. 
  
In short, the CMC says that the advice  to invest in the ISA and Direct Share investments  
wasnt suitable because:
Mr B was advised to invest his redundancy money and life savings therefore he was 
advised to invest too much. 
He was advised to invest his money in a portfolio that he was uncomfortable with. 
He was in poor health and had a number of operations before and after the advice, 
therefore was vulnerable.  
What happened
Between 2011 and 2012 Mr B invested £85,000 in several funds. He was, and still is, in 
receipt of monthly income. He surrendered some of the funds in 2023 and received back 
£37,580. His current portfolio is valued at £42,270.  
 
In March 2023, the CMC complained to the business. It said that due to Mr Bs age hes 
unable to recall the details of the meeting(s), however, he does recall investing the majority 
of money from his lifes savings and redundancy money into the investment portfolio. He 
recalls having a mortgage and a car loan but doesnt recall the payments. 
The CMC also said that Mr B had a private pension income of £400 a month, and his 
outgoings included his mortgage payment, utility bills, council tax, insurance, car, and 
general living expenses. 
The business having initially questioned jurisdiction later consented to us considering the 
merits of this complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, the business said that it was unclear 
if the investments were set up on an execution only basis. But even if they hadnt been, the 
recommendation to invest wasnt unsuitable. 
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr B, through his CMC, referred the complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On balance, its unlikely that this was an execution only sale. In other words, its likely 
that this was an advised sale, even though some key documentation is missing.  
Mr Bs likely to have been supplied with key information, such as the key features 
document and the fund guide, showing the risks associated with each fund. 
The investigator cant say that Mr B was advised to invest too much money. He had 
sufficient cash reserves and didnt require access to his money for over 10 years. 
This doesnt suggest that he was unhappy with the investment. 
In addition to the £85,000 invested, Mr B had £25,000 invested in a one-year fixed 
rate cash bond  which was the equivalent of 22% of his total savings. 
Mr B was also receiving an income  to supplement his pension  which he was 
receiving from his Sterling Corporate Bond Fund. 
He didnt touch the investment for over 10 years, which suggests that he didnt need 
the money. 
Despite what the CMC says about Mr Bs circumstances, its unlikely that this 
wouldnt have been taken into account when the advice was given even though 
details arent clear now. 
Hes unable to say that Mr B was unhappy or uncomfortable with the investment. 
Having reviewed the portfolio investments brochure, and Mr Bs portfolio from around 
the time he received advice, he found the following:
oMr B invested £60,000 in the Sterling Corporate Bond Fund, which was a low 
risk investment. 
oMr B invested another £25,000 in the Balanced Income Portfolio (later 
changed to the Santander Max 60% shares income portfolio). 
oSeparate to the above, Mr B invested £25,000 in a risk-free cash bond. 
Assuming Mr B had around £110,000 in savings, he cant say that the mix was 
unsuitable. The portfolio wouldve been diversified as follows:
o£25,000  which is 22.7% of Mr Bs total savings  invested in no risk.
o£60,000  which is 54.6% of Mr Bs total savings  invested in low risk. 
o£25,000  which is 22.7% of Mr Bs total savings  invested in medium risk. 
The asset mix and level of risk that Mr B was advised to take wasnt unsuitable, even 
if he had no investment experience. The portfolio wasnt unsuitable, as it was a 
diversified portfolio, shared between three different asset classes.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said: 
Given the source of the funds  derived from Mr Bs redundancy and life savings  he 
wasnt in a position to invest. 
Despite what the investigator says, theres no evidence that Mr B was comfortable 
with the investment. But in the absence of any evidence that he was, it cant safely 
be said that the advice/risk was suitable. 
Its concerned that theres no documentation even though the investment is still live.  
Having invested £110,000, Mr B didnt have access to cash for short term needs. 
Investing £60,000 into one fund wasnt suitable.  
Its questionable whether or not the Sterling Corporate Bond was actually low risk 
given its four out of seven risk-rating. Furthermore, the unit price has gone down by 
20%, between 2018 and 2023, which cant be classed as low risk.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he made clear that it wasnt his role to risk rate the funds and based on the 
information provided hes satisfied that it was low risk and therefore not unsuitable. Hes also 
not seen any evidence that Mr B didnt have investment experience. It seems Mr B is 
unhappy about the performance of the fund but thats not something that our service would 
consider. 
The CMC maintains that theres no record of the sale and therefore no way to justify the 
sale. Furthermore, it says that Mr B wasnt aware of the risk and volatility involved and these 
matters shouldve been discussed before the recommendation was made.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the advice was unsuitable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr B has about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC, and the business, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
In short, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Our service doesnt consider complaints in isolation about the performance of an 
investment. This is because performance is dependent on the financial markets and 
is not something that a business can control or predict. So, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I cant safely say that the 
business behaved unreasonably just because Mr Bs investments didnt perform 
better. 
Without a fact find and suitability letter, its possible that this couldve been an 
execution only sale. However, and on balance, I think its unlikely that it was. Given 
how these sorts of investments were likely to be sold and given Mr Bs level of 
experience, I think its unlikely he wouldve chosen to invest in the portfolio without 
advice. So, on the face of the limited evidence, and on balance, I think its unlikely 
that these investments were sold to Mr B without advice.  
I note what the CMC says about the lack of documentation. But given the passage of 
time, I cant say that the business has done anything wrong by not being able to 
provide more documentation. This doesnt mean that the CMCs version of events 
should be automatically preferred (and the complaint upheld), just because there isnt 
more information about what happened. 
Whilst I make no criticism of Mr Bs memory, Im still left without (key) details about 
some of the points made by the CMC. Im not suggesting that there can never be any 
gaps in the evidence, however, Im still obliged to decide this case based on the 
available information.I appreciate Mr B recalls that he had a mortgage, but Ive no further details in terms 
of size, whether it was interest only or repayment and what was outstanding. In any 
case, having a mortgage (and/or a car loan, for which I also have no further details) 
didnt of itself mean that he couldnt invest. 
In any event, I cant safely say that these points werent considered when the advice 
was considered. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that they werent. 
I appreciate what the CMC says about risk and volatility, but in the circumstances 
and on balance, I cant say that these werent discussed. I note Mr B doesnt have a 
good memory of what happened at the point of sale, so on balance I cant say that 
these matters werent discussed, just because the relevant point of sale documents 
arent available. 
On balance, I think these matters were discussed and that Mr B was comfortable with 
the investment and thats why he kept it for 10 years, despite arguably being aware 
that it was making losses between March 2015 and November 2018. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I cant 
safely say that he was advised to invest too much money. Notwithstanding the 
source of his funds, his circumstances suggest that he had a reasonable amount of 
money available to maintain his standard of living without having to take any money 
from his investment. 
I note that Mr B didnt access the portfolio for 10 years or so, which, with the benefit 
of hindsight, suggests that he had access to adequate cash reserve and/or the 
investment met his income needs. Im also mindful that Mr B received an income 
from Sterling Corporate Bond Fund to supplement his pension income. This would 
suggest that the investment met his income needs too. 
Im aware of the points raised by the investigator in relation to market volatility 
between  including the China-US trade war, Brexit, and Covid-19  which suggests 
that Mr B didnt need the money and was able to tolerate this level of volatility.    
In my opinion, the above suggests Mr B was comfortable with the recommendation 
rather than uncomfortable as suggested by the CMC. In other words, and on 
balance, Im not persuaded that Mr B was advised to invest in a portfolio that he 
wasnt comfortable with. His subsequent behavior doesnt suggest that he was 
unhappy at all.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, I cant safely 
say that the portfolio was unsuitable given the asset class and breakdown. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr B was advised to take an 
unreasonable level of risk to achieve his medium to long term investment goal.  
Given Mr B circumstances, and the source of the wealth, I dont agree that investing 
£60,000 in one fund with low risk was unsuitable. I note this was balanced out with 
investing £25,000 in a no-risk investment and another £25,000 in a medium risk 
investment.  
I note the CMC says that Mr B was in poor health, but theres no evidence that the 
business was made aware of this. In the absence of any evidence that the business 
was aware  and ignored evidence of Mr Bs vulnerabilities  I cant say that the 
business has done anything wrong. In any case, having health issues doesnt mean 
that it was wrong for Mr B to invest. 
In other words, a business can only advise on the basis of the information provided. If 
Mr B didnt provide certain information about his circumstances, I cant blame the 
business for not taking it into account.    
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. I note the CMC believes that the business should pay him compensation, but I dont agree, 
because I dont think the business is responsible for any losses. Whilst I appreciate his deep 
frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman