DRN-3020736
The complaint
Mr J complains that Hartley Wadsworth & Partners (HWP) advised him to consolidate two 
existing pension plans into a new pension.
He queries whether this was in his best interest and whether it was necessary to switch. He 
had already switched pensions a few years previously. 
What happened
In 2011, Mr J had changed jobs and sought advice about his pensions. He was enquiring 
about joining his new employers pension. He also had a stakeholder pension from his 
previous employer and a personal pension which he wanted to keep separate to his new 
employers plan. He was advised to join his employers pension as it offered generous 
employer contributions and to consolidate his two other plans into a new personal pension 
plan. 
The stakeholder pension had a value of around £27,000 and had a tiered annual 
management charge of 1% for the first £25,000, 0.9% for the sum between £25,000 and 
£50,000 and 0.8% thereafter. 
Mr Js other existing pension plan had a value of around £38,500. It had fund charges which 
varied between 1% and 1.8% (in aggregate about 1.35%) and a policy charge of £2.10 per 
month. It had a loyalty bonus of 0.8% a year.
The recommended plan had a service charge of 0.3% per year for values between £50,000 
and £99,999 which would go down if the plan value increased. The fund charges for the 
funds that were recommended to Mr J were between 0.1% and 0.561%, in aggregate just 
over 0.2%. The adviser fees were £600 plus an ongoing adviser charge of 0.3% per year.
The investigator thought the advice to consolidate the pensions and the recommended funds 
was suitable for Mr J. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that the advice given was overall 
suitable for Mr J. 
The product charges for the recommended plan were lower than in both Mr Js existing plans 
and there were no exit fees or lost guarantees. HWP did consider transferring the 
stakeholder plan (the most expensive of the plans) into Mr Js existing personal pension. 
However, initial commission payments would have been around £1,239. I also note that Mr J 
would have had to pay 0.3% per month on the stakeholder pension transfer value for the first 
two years. So I think it was reasonable not to switch the stakeholder plan into Mr Js existing 
personal pension.
Another option could have been to only switch the stakeholder plan to a new, cheaper 
arrangement and leave the personal pension where it was. Mr J queried whether he possibly 
could have switched funds in his existing plan instead. It is true that Mr J likely could have 
switched funds internally. However, based on the providers literature they didnt offer funds 
which were priced as low as the ones in Mr Js new plan. The minimum was 1% which most 
of Mr Js funds were priced at already. So whilst potentially fund costs could have been 
reduced a little through internal switching, I dont think it realistically would have been by 
much. And by only transferring the lower value of the stakeholder plan, Mr J would have 
been charged higher plan fees of 0.5% instead of 0.3%. I think consolidating the two 
pensions into a new plan in the circumstances made sense.
What I havent included in the above comparisons are adviser fees. I understand Mr J was 
looking for advice not only on these pensions but also on his new employers pension plan. 
And even if the advice had been for Mr J to remain in his existing plans I dont think it would 
have been unreasonable to charge an initial advice fee.
Mr J was also paying an ongoing adviser fee for his new plan which entitled him to annual 
reviews. The new plan was cheaper than the stakeholder pension even including all adviser 
charges. When including the ongoing adviser charge on top of product charges, Mr J was 
overall paying slightly more than he was in his other existing personal pension. However, 
slightly higher costs do not mean a switch is necessarily unsuitable. By switching, Mr J was 
able to consolidate his plans which brings advantages like simplified pension planning and 
reduced costs and more investment options due to higher plan values. And he benefitted 
from an ongoing advice service on his pension for a reasonable charge which I dont 
consider to be an unnecessary benefit in Mr Js circumstances. He was obviously interested 
in his pension provisions and I think having ongoing advice would have been useful. From 
what Ive seen Im also satisfied Mr J was informed of the adviser charges.
Overall, I think the advice to consolidate his existing pensions into a new plan which offered 
ongoing advice was suitable here. Ive also considered the funds that were recommended 
and I cant see any issues here. Mr J was recorded to have a moderately aggressive attitude 
to risk. He was many years from retirement (he was in his late 30s at the time) and could 
absorb any short to medium volatility. He was invested in a mix of equities, corporate bonds 
and property which I consider suitable for Mr J at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman