DRN-1143700
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way in which Admiral Insurance Company Limited made 
records under his motor insurance policy which related to damage that occurred to his car.
What happened
Mr F was away on holiday and when returning to his parked car, noticed that there was a 
small dent on one of the doors. He wasnt sure how this had been caused.
Mr F says he rang Admiral to find out what his excess was under his policy. He decided not 
to pursue a claim. However when he later applied for a new policy, he discovered that the 
damage to his door had been recorded as an incident on his insurance history, and that this 
was adversely affecting the premium offered to him. Mr F complained to Admiral about its 
actions, stating that the questions it had asked him had made this matter out to be more than 
it really was.
Admiral considered that it had recorded the damage to Mr Fs car fairly. Unhappy with that 
response, Mr F brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, concluding that Admiral had acted reasonably 
when recording the door damage as an incident.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators findings. He has stated that a phone call such as the 
one he made shouldnt have had such an adverse effect on his insurance premiums. Mr F 
says that had he been at home rather than on holiday, he could have checked his policy 
excess on-line, and wouldnt therefore have rung Admiral to discuss the damage sustained 
to his car. He feels that the questions Admiral asked him were tailored and have ultimately 
penalised him.
Mr F has stated that the consequences of making the type of call that he did might make a 
policyholder fearful of contacting their insurer. He has reiterated that he never intended to do 
anything other than enquire about his excess, and he considers that he has been unfairly 
treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call recording of the conversation Mr F had with Admiral that forms the 
central part of his complaint. I appreciate that Mr F says that his intention was simply to find 
out what the excess was under his policy, and that had he been at home, he could have 
checked this on-line, without the need to call Admiral. But I also need to consider whether 
Admiral has acted unreasonably in the way that it handled Mr Fs call, and subsequently 
recorded what had been discussed.
At the start of the call, Mr F explained to Admiral that he was not necessarily calling to 
register a claim, but he wanted to discuss this matter. Admiral made it clear that Mr F was 
under no obligation to make a claim. There was discussion about how a claim might affect 
Mr Fs no claims discount. Admiral confirmed that Mr F could have a think about whether he 
wanted to pursue an insurance claim.
Admiral did confirm to Mr F during the call that the recording of an incident could affect his 
premium rating. Admiral later recorded the damage to the car as a non-fault incident. On 
balance, my view is that Admiral acted fairly in this regard. Insurers need to make accurate 
records about their policyholders. Having been told about what had happened to Mr Fs car, 
its difficult to see why Admiral would have chosen not to record this as an incident  despite 
the fact that the damage was clearly not the fault of Mr F.
Insurers use a variety of factors when calculating the risk of offering cover to an individual. It 
appears that in this case, the recording of the cars damage as a non-fault incident has 
caused an increase in the cost of the premium offered to Mr F. Different insurers might rate 
the risk of this incident in different ways, leading to a different impact on the premium that Mr 
F is offered by each insurer. But overall, although I appreciate that Mr F will be disappointed 
with my findings, my conclusion is that Admiral has acted fairly in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
John Swain
Ombudsman