DRN-2669257
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr M on his own behalf and as executor of the estate of the late 
Mrs M. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mr and Mrs M were applying for a mortgage. The policy 
was in Mr Ms name only and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. 
He said, in summary, that:
He was aware of PPI because of the job he did. He wouldnt have agreed to pay for PPI 
because he and Mrs M didnt need it.
He and his wife had life insurance in place to pay off any debts, which was important at 
the time because they had a young family.
They were both in good health when the PPI was taken out and never had time off work 
because of illness.
Other people in his position have had their PPI complaints upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr M says he wasnt aware a PPI policy was in place. But I think there must have been 
some discussion about the policy because the eligibility questions had to be answered as 
part of the application. And the decision was made to take out the policy in Mr Ms name 
only, although it was a joint mortgage. So whilst Mr M may not remember now that hed 
taken PPI, overall, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and 
that they chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs M and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Ms name only. He was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
From the information Mr and Mrs M provided on the mortgage application form, whilst 
the mortgage was taken out in joint names, Mr M was the main wage earner. If Mrs M 
hadnt been able to work, it looks like Mr M could have afforded the mortgage 
repayments from his own income. So I think it was appropriate for the PPI to be taken 
out in Mr Ms name only.
Mr M told us that he would have received sick pay from his employer, but he cant 
remember how much. And he said that he had some savings. From what hes told us, he 
and Mrs M moved house quite frequently as they renovated and refurbished properties, 
allowing them to move up the property ladder. And it seems from what hes said that any 
savings would have been ear-marked for improving their home. The mortgage was a 
significant long-term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ms home was at risk if they 
didnt keep up with the repayments. And they had a young family to consider. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or 
sickness in addition to any sick pay Mr M received. It also covered him if hed become 
unemployed. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr and 
Mrs Ms existing arrangements.
Mr M told us he could have relied on friends and family to help him and Mrs M pay their 
mortgage if he couldnt work. But this wasnt a guaranteed source of income, so does 
not change my conclusion.
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs M 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the policy was set out in the mortgage offer. I accept what Mr M says that not 
everyone reads all of the paperwork when they are taking out a mortgage. But the cost 
was on page one of the offer document  so I think it was made reasonably clear. For 
that reason, I think Mr and Mrs M would have been aware of how much the policy would 
cost each month before they agreed to take it out. And whilst Mr M says that he and Mrs 
M would have wanted to have kept costs down, I find that the policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable.
Mr M says he and his wife had life insurance in place. But this did not mirror the 
protection provided by the PPI. Hes also said that he and his wife were in good health 
and didnt take time off work due to sickness. But insurance is put in place to protect 
against risks which may happen. And, as noted earlier, because of the consequences of 
not being able to meet the mortgage payments, it seems most likely that Mr and Mrs M 
decided they wanted peace of mind to know that their mortgage payments would be 
covered if Mr M wasnt working  either through sickness, an accident or unemployment.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.Ive taken into account what Mr M says about other PPI complaints being upheld. But Ive 
considered the particular circumstances of this complaint and am not able to uphold it, for 
the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman