DRN-2786311
Complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with Capital One (Europe) plcs decision to load a Cifas marker against his 
name.
Background
Mr Z had a credit card with Capital One. In June 2018, a direct debit payment was made to 
that credit card account for £1,145.04. It came from a current account Mr Z held with a 
different business. That direct debit was reversed the following day because there werent 
sufficient funds in the current account. Nonetheless, Mr Z spent on his credit card during the 
period between the balance on his Capital One account changing and it later being reversed. 
Mr Zs account was then blocked until he was able to make a payment to bring the balance 
back down. It wasnt until January 2019 that Capital One sent him a notice of default 
requiring the repayment of the balance in full. At that point, Mr Z hadnt made any payments 
towards his account for over six months. Capital One considered that Mr Z had deliberately 
exploited the situation to spend money on his credit card account that he knew would be 
reversed imminently. In February 2019, it closed the account and loaded a Cifas marker 
against his name.
Mr Z was unhappy with Capital Ones decision and so he referred a complaint to this service. 
His case was allocated to one of our Investigators. Mr Z told the Investigator that this was a 
simple oversight on his part, and that he hadnt acted deliberately.
Our Investigator was unpersuaded. He said that there was only £1 worth of credit in Mr Zs 
current account and so he wouldve known that the direct debit couldnt have been honoured 
by that bank. He also thought the fact that Mr Z didnt subsequently make any payments to 
reduce the debt suggested he hadnt intended to do so. The Investigator also noted that the 
statement history for Mr Zs account showed that there were multiple occasions where direct 
debits had been reversed. Overall, the Investigator was persuaded that Mr Z had acted 
deliberately and that Capital One was therefore reasonable in its decision to load the Cifas 
marker.
Mr Z disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that he had previously transferred 
money into his current account from a different account. On this occasion, he simply forgot 
to make the transfer prior to the direct debit being paid. Because Mr Z disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in 
loading a marker with Cifas. Its a member of Cifas which means its agreed to abide by the 
National Fraud Database Principles. Those principles set a high standard that a firm must 
meet if it wants to load adverse information against a customers name. It says that it on 
order to do so: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police. 
The onus is on Capital One to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive considered 
the evidence provided by both sides and Im satisfied that its done so here.
There are different types of markers. Capital One loaded a Category 6 marker against Mr Zs 
name which covers misuse of facility  a broad category that would nonetheless include 
the type of action that Capital One suspects Mr Z of carrying out. The current account had a 
negative balance of £8999 and an overdraft limit of £9000 on the day the direct debit was 
due. I find it likely that Mr Z was aware that there were insufficient funds in that account to 
make the payment to Capital One.
Hes said that he was in the habit of making payments into that current account from a 
separate account but that in this instance, he forgot to do so. But this doesnt explain why, 
once the error came to light, he didnt make any attempt to correct it by making further 
payments to Capital One. By the time Capital One defaulted his account, it appears that Mr 
Z hadnt made any payments for over six months and it didnt load a Cifas marker until the 
account was eventually closed. 
I cant know with complete certainty what Mr Zs intentions were and so I must reach a 
conclusion here on the balance of probabilities. Overall, Im persuaded that the weight of the 
evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr Z didnt intend to repay his debt to Capital 
One and so hed used a bank account which couldnt make the direct debit payment to allow 
him to spend further credit on his Capital One account.
In view of that, I think it was fair and reasonable for Capital One to load a Cifas marker 
against his name and I dont think it needs to remove it now. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman