DRN-3024315
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wouldnt reduce the maximum 
total mileage on a hire purchase agreement he had with them.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr A was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £7,185, and the agreement was for 48 months; with 
47 monthly payments of £699.95 and an optional final payment of £24,935.13 if Mr A wanted 
to keep the car. The agreement stated an annual mileage of 19,000 miles, and a maximum 
total mileage of 76,000 miles over the four years of the agreement. It also stated that Mr A 
would be charged 11.08 pence a mile for any excess mileage.
In October 2020, Mr A asked BMW if they could reduce the maximum total mileage allowed 
under the agreement and reduce his monthly payments as a result. He said this was 
because he hadnt used the car as much as hed originally expected - hed started working 
from home as a result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and he was doing less 
personal travel. BMW explained they werent able to do this, as it wasnt an option under the 
agreement Mr A had with them.
Mr A wasnt happy with this reply, so he complained to BMW. But BMW didnt change their 
mind. And Mr A brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr A had entered into the agreement at 19,000 miles a year, so it was 
reasonable to conclude that he was happy with this mileage figure at the time. While he 
appreciated that Mr A was no longer using the car as much as he originally anticipated, this 
was as a result of change in his circumstances caused by Covid-19, which couldnt 
reasonably have been foreseen at the outset of the agreement.
The investigator also said that the 19,000 miles a year / 76,000 total mileage was a 
maximum amount, after which Mr A would be charged. So the possibility of him doing less 
mileage was always factored into the agreement. And the terms and conditions Mr A agreed 
to dont allow for the mileage to be altered, and the payments changed as a result. So he 
didnt think that BMW had done anything wrong by not agreeing to Mr As request.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think the outcome of the investigation was 
fair, and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr A signed on 25 September 2019. 
And its clear that Mr A agreed to a maximum total mileage of 76,000 over the four years of 
the agreement. But this is a maximum mileage - Mr A isnt required to drive the car for 
76,000 miles, but he would be charged if he exceeded this mileage. 
Mr A has said that he did just over 10,000 miles in the first year, which is much less than the 
19,000 miles hed expected to do. But theres a total mileage limit of 76,000 over the full four 
years of the agreement. Which means that Mr A has the flexibility to exceed 19,000 miles in 
subsequent years, while remaining within the total mileage limit. And not get charged for any 
excess mileage.
In signing the agreement, Mr A agreed to BMWs terms and conditions. Ive reviewed these, 
and theres no right for Mr A to vary the allowable mileage specifically, or to vary the terms of 
the agreement generally. So I dont think that BMW did anything wrong by not agreeing to a 
variation of the terms of the agreement.
Whats more, this is a hire purchase agreement. So its designed that Mr A would own the 
car at the end of the agreement. The final payment has been calculated based on the 
estimated value of the car at the end of the agreement, and the mileage forms part of that 
estimate. So, if BMW were to have reduced the monthly payments based on a reduced 
mileage (and Im not saying they should have), then the amount of the final payment would 
increase accordingly. 
So, of he took the option to purchase the car in September 2023, Mr A would end up paying 
the same amount as he would under the agreement as it stands now. And, with a lower 
mileage, the residual value of the car at the agreement would likely be higher than the final 
payment. So, as Mr A hasnt said that he doesnt intend to purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement, I dont consider BMWs decision not to agree to a variation of the terms has 
resulted in Mr A suffering any financial disadvantage.
As such, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I think BMW acted 
reasonably by refusing his request to vary the terms of the agreement. And I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman