DRN-3274172
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G are unhappy that following an escape of water claim made with HDI Global
Speciality SE (HDI), their carpet was disposed of.
Mrs G and Mr G are also unhappy with the handling of the claim. Any references to HDI
include its agents.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs G and Mr G made a claim under their Landlords policy for damage caused
by an escape of water. HDI appointed a contractor who assessed the damage. The
contractor advised the carpets and underlay needed to be removed to allow the property to
be dried out, and they felt they were beyond repair. They arranged for them to be disposed
of.
It soon became clear the policy Mrs G and Mr G held didnt cover carpets. HDI said they
wouldnt be considering any claim for these. Mrs G and Mr G said the carpets belonged to
them and shouldnt have been thrown away. They also said the carpets could have been
cleaned and restored to the property. HDI argued the contractor who made the decision the
carpets were beyond repair was very experienced. They were inclined to trust his
judgement. Mrs G and Mr G were offered a cash settlement for the claim, but this didnt
include the cost of replacement carpets.
Mrs G and Mr G believe they were treated unfairly because HDI said they needed to find
their own contractor, but then sent one. Mrs G and Mr G said this caused them a great deal
of inconvenience and the delay led to a dispute with their tenants over rent.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. She concluded HDI should pay half
the cost of the replacement carpet Mrs G and Mr G had obtained a quote for. She said this
was fair, as there was no firm evidence the carpet wasnt salvageable. HDI agreed but Mrs
G and Mr G didnt and asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman.
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
The claim has been settled and there are only two points outstanding, these being the
carpets and overall handling of the claim. Ill consider each complaint point in turn.
Carpets
I agree with HDIs conclusion the carpets were not covered under Mrs G and Mr Gs policy,
so I have considered whether it was right to dispose of them.
As they were not covered, they remained Mrs G and Mr Gs property. I dont consider the
should have been disposed of without their consent.
HDI argued the extent of the escape of water means the carpets could not be salvaged. As a
result, Mrs G and Mr G would have had to replace the flooring. Mrs G and Mr G say their
starting point would be to have the carpets deep cleaned. Unfortunately, now that the
carpets have been disposed of there is no way to assess the damage. HDI provided photos
of the carpets, but Im not persuaded these prove the carpets or the underlay were beyond
repair.
On the basis it cant be proven the carpets were not salvageable, I agree HDI should pay
Mrs G and Mr G the reasonable cost of replacing the carpets.
Our investigator asked Mrs G and Mr G for an invoice or any evidence of how much the
carpet originally cost. Mr G said they were unable to provide this, saying a previous tenant
bought the carpet from a high street retailer in 2018. They provided an estimate for
replacement flooring from the same retailer. The carpet element was priced at £52 per
square metre.
However, Im not persuaded a tenant in a rented property was likely to purchase carpet at a
cost of £52 per square metre when they left relatively soon after. Given the circumstances, I
think its reasonable to assume a tenant would have been more likely to select a carpet at a
lower cost per square metre. With this in mind, Im intending to require HDI to pay Mrs G and
Mr G the cost of £15 per square metre towards replacement carpets, unless Im provided
with evidence to show the cost of the carpets laid in 2018. If Mrs G and Mr G are able to
provide this, Ill consider it, whilst mindful of the fact it was three years old when removed.
The estimate Mrs G and Mr G provided also included underlay and the fitting costs. HDI
says the severity of the flood would likely have rendered the underlay unsalvageable.
However, like the carpet, I dont consider it has definitively evidenced this. Therefore, Im
intending to require HDI to contribute 50% towards the cost of the underlay set out in the
quote Mrs G and Mr G provided. Mrs G and Mr G would also always have had to pay to
have the carpet refitted after it had been removed for the property, because it wasnt covered
under the policy so I dont think this should be covered by HDI.
Service issues
Mrs G and Mr G state they were told by HDI they didnt have a contractor to send to assess
the property. They say says this was incorrect as they later sent contractors.
HDI said on 18 August they asked Mrs G and Mr G to obtain quotations for the necessary
work. Mr G replied, saying he was unable to do so despite contacting four different builders.
On 24 August, HDI agreed to instruct contractors. A cash settlement was offered on 15
September.
Any insurance claim will usually result in some inconvenience, so I have considered whether
there were unavoidable delays which were the sole responsibility of HDI. I dont think there
were. HDI said they dont normally instruct contractors but here they agreed to do so due to
the severity of the damage, and to limit any delays.
Therefore, Im not upholding this part of Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. As I dont consider
there were any unavoidable delays, it follows Im not going to recommend HDI make a
payment to reflect the inconvenience they experienced.
HDI accepted my provisional decision. Mrs G and Mr G told our investigator they had 
received the provisional decision, but we didnt receive any further comments from them 
within the timeframes given, despite requests they do so. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side provided any further arguments or reasoning for me to consider, I dont see 
any reason to depart from the conclusions I outlined in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Speciality 
SE to:
Pay Mrs G and Mr G an amount equivalent to £15 per square metre for 
replacement carpets
Pay Mrs G and Mr G 50% towards the cost of the underlay set out in the quote
provided
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman