DRN-3452853
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund money he lost, which he believes 
was the result of a scam.
Mr M is represented in this complaint but for ease of reference, I have referred to all 
submissions as if made directly by Mr M.
Background
Mr M has explained that in 2011, he met a lady on an adult website  for ease of reference 
Ill refer to her as Ms P. Mr M built a relationship over time with Ms P, meeting her on two 
occasions and became engaged. In 2012 Mr M and Ms P faced issues in the relationship 
and parted ways, cutting contact.
In 2019, Mr M was on another adult website when he again came across Ms P 
unexpectedly. The two began speaking again regularly from this point onwards, both on the 
website, on other instant messaging services and by phone on a few occasions.
Mr M has explained he was in love with Ms P and wanted to start a life together. Having 
reviewed the conversations between them, I can see he told her this on multiple occasions. 
However at the time due to Covid-19 there were travel restrictions, so this was difficult. Ms P 
also expressed concerns over meeting Mr M after how their previous relationship ended.
Mr M made payments to Ms P, both through the adult site she was on and also directly to Ms 
P using an international payment service. Payments from his Vanquis card in particular were 
made between July 2019 and February 2021, although he made further payments through 
other banking providers he had accounts with.
Mr M has explained he made the payments as he believed he was supporting Ms P at a time 
she was struggling financially and had a young child  believing they would eventually meet 
and be together. In total Mr M made around 46 payments from his Vanquis card, totalling 
around £8,000.
In April 2021, Ms P advised she considered Mr M to be just a friend. At this point Mr M 
considered hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted his banking providers to raise a 
scam claim, as well as the Police, Action Fraud and the Home Office.
Vanquis investigated Mr Ms claim but declined a refund. It said it was holding Mr M liable for 
the transactions as he willingly authorised them. Mr M disagreed with Vanquis response and 
so contacted this service. He said another banking provider he holds an account with has 
provided him with a full refund and didnt understand why Vanquis wouldnt do the same. 
Mr Ms complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator 
considered that the payments were in line with Mr Ms typical spending behaviour  so 
wouldnt have appeared out of character or unusual to Vanquis for it to have intervened. She 
also didnt consider that further questioning by Vanquis wouldve led Mr M to believe he was 
the victim of a scam, or raised concerns with Vanquis  based on him having met Ms P and 
having been in a relationship previously with her. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said that the payments were a drastic 
change in his account use, as before then he wasnt spending large amounts on adult sites. 
He also thought that where the adult websites payment processor was based from was 
synonymous with scams. He noted that the company had a number of poor online reviews. 
Mr M considers that, had Vanquis questioned him further on the payments he was making, it 
wouldve identified that he had fallen victim to a scam.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Vanquis actions, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Vanquis 
should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I appreciate this has had a
significant impact on him, both financially and emotionally. Its understandable, having lost
such a significant sum, why Mr M feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
Having considered everything both Vanquis and Mr M have provided, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to safely conclude Mr Ms complaint meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. While well never know with certainty what Ms Ps intentions were 
when liaising with Mr M, it appears there was at some point in the past a genuine 
relationship between the two that deteriorated. Having reviewed the instant messaging 
conversations that took place between the pair, I can see that while Ms P did at times refer 
to financial struggles, payments Mr M made to her were largely made without request or 
even knowledge at times by Ms P  so I cant safely conclude that Ms P induced Mr M into 
making the payments, by means of deception. Ms P eventually also told Mr M she wished to 
just be friends, despite still receiving money from Mr M  which arent the actions I would 
expect a scammer to take.
Even if I was to consider this as a scam, I dont think that any of the payments Mr M made 
ought to have been considered out of character or unusual by Vanquis. While I appreciate 
payments were being made internationally, which could be considered a higher risk indicator 
for fraud, I can see that in the 12 months prior to the scam Mr M made international 
payments from the account on a number of separate occasions  so I dont think Vanquis 
ought to have identified payments to an international payment service as suspicious or out of 
character for that reason alone, based on it being similar to other spending behaviour on Mr 
Ms account. The value of the payments also wasnt so out of character that I think this 
shouldve raised concern with Vanquis. Mr M has raised concerns about the company that processed the payments he made to the 
adult site in question, where its based from and online reviews. While Ive seen there are 
some complaints from individuals online claiming theyve had payments taken that they 
didnt authorise, this isnt what Mr M is alleging  hes acknowledged the payments made to 
the site were authorised by him. As Mr M is claiming Ms P specifically scammed him, rather 
than the site he met her on, or the company that took payments for that site, I dont think the 
location of the payment processor is of particular relevance in this complaint.
Even if Vanquis had called to query any of the payments Mr M made, I dont think its 
intervention wouldve stopped Mr M from proceeding with further transactions, or raised 
concerns for Vanquis that Mr M was at risk of financial harm. I say this because Mr Ms 
circumstances arent aligned with what Id consider to be the typical hallmarks of a romance 
scam. Mr M knew Ms P and had met her in person in the past  and built a strong enough 
relationship with her at this time to propose. Their meeting in 2019 was by chance, rather 
than instigated by Ms P as a scammer, most payments made by Mr M from his Vanquis card 
were made towards the adult site she worked for, rather than to her directly and from what 
Ive seen, direct payments to Ms P were mostly instigated by Mr M without Ms Ps request, 
or even her knowledge at times. 
I appreciate Mr M may be frustrated that another of his banking providers has refunded the 
payments he made through that account. I havent seen the details of that case to know 
what reason the bank had for providing a refund  whether it considered Mr M had been 
scammed and that it was, for some purpose, liable  or whether it made a commercial 
decision to provide a refund. Either way, I can only consider the circumstances of the 
complaint Mr M has against Vanquis, and for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think 
Vanquis should be held liable for Mr Ms losses.
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mr M has been through here. But unfortunately, Im 
not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Vanquis  so 
whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Vanquis 
to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is to not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman