DRN-3804310
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Vitality Life Limited, trading as Vitality Life (Vitality) withdrew the 
cover they provided for him after obtaining and reviewing his medical records.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr B applied to Vitality for a policy which provided both life and serious 
illness cover.  
At around this time, a friend of Mr B was diagnosed with prostate cancer.  His friend 
encouraged Mr B to get himself checked.  Mr B spoke to his doctor about a frequent desire 
to urinate.  The doctor recorded that Mr B said this had been happening intermittently for a 
few months.  Further investigations were started.
A few days later, Vitality wrote to Mr B to tell him theyd requested a copy of his medical 
records. In May, Vitality wrote again, telling Mr B that, because of the outstanding 
investigations, they couldnt offer him cover.  They confirmed that they may be able to do so 
once the investigations had been completed.  And they cancelled Mr Bs benefits and 
arranged a refund of his premiums.
Shortly after this, Mr Bs broker told Vitality that Mr Bs medical investigations had been 
completed and asked if the policy could be reinstated.  Vitality said a new application would 
have to be made.  An application was submitted.  
Based on the information it contained, Vitality requested an updated GP report and further 
tests before they made a decision.  When they got these, Vitality noted Mr B was due to 
follow up with his GP in three months time.  So they told Mr B they couldnt provide cover 
then and that he could re-apply in three months.
The following month Mr B was sadly diagnosed with prostate cancer.
Shortly after he submitted the second application, Mr B complained to Vitality about their 
decision to cancel his first policy and about them requesting additional information to assess 
his second application.  In response, Vitality explained that theyd based their decision to 
withdraw cover on his GPs note that Mr B had been experiencing a frequent desire to 
urinate for a few months.  
Vitality said Mr B should have answered yes to the question on their application form about 
intending to seek medical advice.  They said they wouldnt have offered cover if theyd 
known about Mr Bs symptoms.  
In respect of Mr Bs second application, Vitality said theyd requested additional information 
to accurately assess this.  And, because theyd noted follow up with the GP was due, they 
couldnt offer cover until this had been completed.  They invited Mr B to contact them again 
then.
Mr B replied and told Vitality hed completed the first application accurately.  He said hed not 
had the symptoms recorded on the GPs notes.  But hed pretended he had because hed 
promised his friend hed get tested and this was the only way to do that.  Vitality confirmed 
their previous response was unchanged.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Vitalitys response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered the information provided and the relevant law - the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).  He was satisfied Mr B had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and Vitality had acted in line with that by 
cancelling the first policy and refunding his premiums.  And he said it was fair for Vitality to 
defer their decision on offering a second policy while Mr B was undergoing investigations 
and received a diagnosis.  So he didnt think Vitality needed to do anything more to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  I know hell be very disappointed by 
my decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
Before I do that, I should clarify that its not my role to decide whether Vitality should offer  
Mr B the cover he applied for in January.  Rather, its to decide whether the decision Vitality 
made to withdraw cover was fair and reasonable, and made in line with the relevant law.
In this case, the relevant law is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality think Mr B failed to take reasonable care when he answered no to the question:
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any 
impairment or medical complaints that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are you 
currently awaiting the results of any investigations?
Vitality have based their conclusion on the fact that, a month after completing his application, 
Mr B visited his GP and told the GP about urinary issues, which he said hed had for a few 
months.  Mr B says he answered Vitalitys question accurately and the reason his GPs 
notes show what they do is that he wanted to be tested for prostate cancer to reassure his 
friend.  And the GP wouldnt have referred him if he didnt think he had symptoms.
Ive thought very carefully about this.  I think its reasonable to rely on the GPs records as 
accurate.  And they are the only evidence of Mr Bs health at the time he applied for the 
policy.  Without compelling evidence to persuade me the records arent accurate, I think 
Vitalitys reliance on their contents was reasonable.It follows that Im satisfied Mr B didnt take reasonable care answering the questions in the 
application form and made a misrepresentation.  Vitality have shown that, if hed answered 
yes to the question above, theyd have deferred their decision on providing cover to Mr B 
until all investigations were complete.  So Im satisfied there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation.  
Vitality have cancelled the first policy and refunded the premiums Mr B had paid.  Thats in 
line with the remedy set out in CIDRA for a careless misrepresentation.  I think thats fair. 
I can see that a decision on offering cover following the second application Mr B made, in 
which he disclosed the information on his medical records, was deferred as he was 
undergoing tests.  Im very sorry to see those showed he did, in fact, have prostate cancer.  
Id still expect Vitality to deal with his application - if Mr B wants them to - and make a 
decision about whether theyd offer him cover, in line with their underwriting criteria.  But I 
think the decision they made in respect of his first application was fair.  And so I dont think 
they need to do any more to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Vitality Life Limited, 
trading as Vitality Life.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman