DRN-3517780
The complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited refused to accept a promissory note as payment towards 
his outstanding balance. Hes also unhappy MBNA refused to return the promissory note; 
and feels they havent proven the debt exists.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
MBNA has sent us a copy of the credit agreement Mr F signed when he took out the 
credit card in September 2002. So, Im persuaded Mr F knowingly applied for the 
card, and by signing the agreement he agreed to managing his account in line with 
the terms and conditions. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Fs statements, and an arrears letter MBNA sent to him in 
September 2021. These documents explained payments could be made by direct 
debit, standing order, debit card, online banking, cheque, and telephone banking. 
I consider this information was set out clearly and concisely. Given promissory notes 
werent listed (and the fact Mr Fs had his credit card for nearly 20 years) he ought to 
have known they werent a payment method MBNA accepted. Because of this, I cant 
agree MBNA are being unreasonable by not accepting Mr Fs promissory note.
MBNA has also provided evidence that shows Mr F had satisfactorily cleared his 
balance in early May 2021, before he completed a £20,0000 money transfer at the 
end of that month. Ive also seen he made successful payments towards his account 
in July and August 2021, before he cancelled his direct debit. However, he also made 
a further payment in October 2021. This information supports my conclusion that 
Mr F was aware of the ways he could make repayments. 
Mr F has questioned whether MBNA is permitted to pursue him for his credit card 
debt and has quoted several pieces of legislation to support his position. Ive taken 
on board the points Mr F has made. However, we are an informal alternative to the 
Courts. While we consider the relevant laws and regulations, we must also give 
weight to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive had to place a considerable amount of weight on Mr Fs signed credit agreement, 
how he managed his account from 2002 onwards, and the fact he attempted to make 
a payment (albeit using a method MBNA doesnt accept). Ultimately, Mr Fs own 
actions have consistently demonstrated he was fully aware of having the credit card, 
the fact he was obligated to repay any money he spent on it, that he was aware of 
MBNAs various accepted methods of payment, and the amount he owed following 
the money transfer in 2021. So, despite the concerns Mr F has raised, or the 
legislation hes quoted, Im not persuaded MBNA have treated him unfairly by 
reiterating he is still responsible for the amount that remains outstanding on his credit 
card.
MBNA complied with Mr Fs requests to send him a copy of his signed credit 
agreement. And having reviewed MBNAs correspondence to him, I am satisfied 
theyve adequately explained what Mr F owes, and why. Therefore, I wont be asking 
them to send Mr F any additional information despite his list of queries.
Mr F has also requested for his promissory note to be returned to him. MBNA has 
sent us information that shows its not their policy to return promissory notes. As 
thats a commercial decision for them to make, we dont have the power to ask them 
to do something different. On multiple occasions, MBNA have told Mr F they wont be 
accepting his promissory note as payment, so I dont consider Mr F will suffer any 
detriment by not having it returned. Because of this, I wont be asking MBNA to do 
anything in respect of this point.
MBNA has told Mr F he can contact them if hes experiencing financial difficulties. He 
may want to take MBNA up on their offer if hes unable to repay the outstanding 
balance he owes them.
I know this isnt the answer Mr F hoped for. But for the reasons above, Im not upholding his 
complaint against MBNA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman