DRN-3777323
The complaint
Mr B complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G), which he 
says were unaffordable. This complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Bs behalf by 
a claims management company (CMC). But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Mr B.
What happened
L2G agreed two loans for Mr B. Loan 1 was for £250 and was taken out in July 2019. Loan 2 
was for £401.52 and was taken out in February 2020. Part of the proceeds of Loan 2 were 
used to repay Loan 1. Some of the information L2G provided about the loans is shown in the 
table below.
Loan 
numberStart date Repayment 
dateLoan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 17/7/2019 15/2/2020 £250 £57.14 18
2. 15/2/2020 28/3/21 £401.52 £91.77 18
Mr B says that L2G failed to conduct proportionate checks and it could have done more prior 
to providing the loans. He was affected financially and mentally by taking out the loans and 
he feels L2G shouldnt have lent to him. At the time he was in a bad place financially and it 
took a long while to recover.
L2G didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint but in its final response letter it offered to refund £350 to 
Mr B as a gesture of goodwill. It doesnt appear that Mr B accepted the offer.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Bs financial situation. 
Normally, hed consider information such as Mr Bs bank statements to see whether the 
lender wouldve found anything concerning which might have affected its decision to lend. 
But he said that Mr B hadnt sent this Service that information. The adjudicator said that if  
Mr B was able to provide bank statements from around the time of each loan, he would 
consider whether they made a difference to the complaint. 
In response to the adjudicators view, Mr B provided this Service with some bank 
statements. The adjudicator reviewed these and he said that he didnt feel there were any 
concerns within them that would have indicated to L2G that it shouldn't have lent to Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B
and to L2G on 28 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when L2G lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Id said that L2G would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we consider 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I wouldnt go into detail on these points. 
Id thought about whether L2G completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Bs applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his repayments 
without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the information it knew, and 
what it ought reasonably to have known.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £250. Id noted that L2G gathered some information from Mr B about his 
income and expenditure. It had also carried out a credit check.
Mr B had told L2G his monthly income was £2,100. But L2G said that it had verified that he 
received a minimum monthly income of £1,888.47 via an online income verification tool. L2G 
calculated Mr Bs monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £1,621.23. So, it 
said that the loan repayments would have been affordable. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr B had a total credit 
balance of £3,389. I could see that Mr B had an outstanding county court judgement (CCJ) 
for £786 from six months prior to his loan application. There also appeared to be a number 
of unsatisfied defaulted accounts from a few years before. Mr B also appeared to have been 
in recent need of credit. Hed taken out a credit card account and a mail order account in 
May 2019 and in April 2019 hed taken out a short term loan for £300 on the same date that 
hed repaid a previous short term loan. I thought L2G might have had concerns that Mr Bs 
finances might have been under pressure in view of the relatively recent outstanding CCJ, 
the outstanding defaulted account balances and the short term loan and two new credit 
accounts hed opened since April 2019. So, I would have reasonably expected L2G to have 
taken steps to verify Mr Bs actual monthly income and actual monthly expenditure to gain a 
more thorough understanding of his financial position in order to satisfy itself that he would 
be able to repay the loan without having to borrow again. L2G didnt say that it took steps to 
do this.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with L2G. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of around £57 for 18 months. Given the length of time Mr B was committing to 
repay the credit and what L2G would have likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its 
checks were sufficient for the lender to get a clear picture of Mr Bs finances at the time. 
L2G needed to do more than just ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, 
requesting bank statements from Mr B, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses. I couldnt see that L2G took steps to do this. 
But although I thought L2G should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Bs complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown L2G that Mr B 
couldn't repay the loan  without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. Mr B provided this Service with his bank statements from around the time of Loan 1 and his 
credit report. Id reviewed these to give me the best picture of what the lender should have 
seen, although I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G should have done. 
Id asked the adjudicator to contact the CMC as I needed some more information about 
some of the entries on Mr Bs bank statements. Id noted that his income varied greatly from   
April 2019 and June 2019 and asked for the reason for the variations. Id asked if the 
consumer was paying certain living costs which didnt appear on his statements. We didnt 
receive answers to my queries. So, Id reviewed the statements for the month before the 
loan application without the information Id asked for.
Id noted that Mr Bs income was £1,949.53 and his total regular living costs and credit 
commitments appeared to be in the region of £1,350. Overall, I didnt think the account was 
showing signs of financial distress. The statements didnt show any apparent issues such as 
significant gambling or short term loans received in the month before the loan application. I 
didnt think the statements would have caused L2G serious concerns if it had seen them. 
So, from the information Id seen, I didnt think better checks by L2G would have uncovered 
anything that would have shown that Mr B might have difficulty repaying his loan. Looking at 
everything in the round, I hadnt seen enough to find that L2G ought to have declined to lend 
Loan 1 to Mr B and I wasnt persuaded that L2G lent irresponsibly on this occasion. So, I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Id noted that L2G used £151.52 from the proceeds of Loan 2 to repay Loan 1.
Loan 2 was for £401.52. Id again noted that L2G had gathered some information from Mr B 
about his income and expenditure. It had also carried out a credit check.
Mr B told L2G his monthly income was £3,300 but L2G said that it verified that he received a 
minimum monthly income of £1,358.81 via an online income verification tool. L2G calculated 
Mr Bs monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £994.08. So, it said that the 
loan repayments would have been affordable. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. Id noted that these still showed an unsatisfied CCJ and 
default balances. In addition, there were two accounts including a hire purchase account in 
arrears and another account in arrears in the month prior to the loan application. I could also 
see that Mr B had taken out a short term loan for £150 in December 2019. So, again I 
thought L2G might have had concerns that Mr Bs finances might have been under pressure. 
So I would have reasonably expected L2G to have taken steps to verify Mr Bs actual 
monthly income and actual monthly expenditure to gain a more thorough understanding of 
his financial position in order to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan without 
having to borrow again. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this.
Given the length of time Mr B was committing to repay the credit and what L2G would have 
likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for L2G to get a clear 
picture of Mr Bs finances at the time. 
Even though I thought that L2G shouldve carried out better checks at the time, as I said 
above, it didnt automatically follow that L2G was wrong to provide Mr B with Loan 2. So, Id 
asked the adjudicator to ask Mr B for copies of his bank statements from around the time of 
Loan 2, so we could see what better checks would have shown L2G. It didnt appear that the 
adjudicator had reviewed bank statements from around the time of Loan 2 when he provided his comments to Mr B following his view. It appeared that Mr B had provided this Service 
with his bank statements from an earlier period. 
Despite the adjudicators request, I couldnt see that we had received copies of Mr Bs bank 
statements from around the time of Loan 2. So, I wasnt able to get a picture of what his 
financial situation was like at the relevant time. That means I couldnt say that, if L2G had 
completed further checks, it wouldve found that Mr B couldnt afford to repay Loan 2. So, 
based on the information Id seen, I wasnt able to conclude that L2G shouldnt have agreed 
to provide Loan 2 to Mr B. Id said that if Mr B was able to provide us with the relevant copies 
of his bank statements, I would reconsider my provisional decision. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr B or L2G, I said that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
L2G responded to my provisional decision to say that it didnt have any additional points to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr B and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B and Im sorry to hear about his difficulties. 
But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman