DRN-3504368
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a 
claim on her roadside assistance insurance policy. Mrs A is represented in this matter by her 
husband, Mr A. 
What happened
Mr As car needed to be taken to a garage for diagnosis and repair. UKIs appointed 
engineer attended and tried to start the car using leads attached to a spare battery. Mr A 
said the engineer had attached the leads incorrectly and this damaged the car. It had to be 
removed to the garage by another company. Mr As garage said damage had been caused 
by reverse polarity. 
The car needed new parts and repairs and Mr A was without it at a distressing time. UKI said 
that its engineer hadnt damaged the car. But it agreed that its customer service and 
communication had been poor. It offered Mr A £150 compensation for this and £300 towards 
hotel bills he had incurred. But Mr A remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show that UKIs engineer had caused the damage to Mr As car. 
And so he couldnt hold UKI responsible for this. He agreed that UKIs level of customer 
service had been poor, but he thought its offer of compensation was sufficient for this. 
Mr A replied that he thought UKI had declined evidence that was offered and should have 
provided an independent assessors report. He thought UKI had admitted liability. He said 
the total cost for hotel bills and repairs was over £5,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A felt upset and frustrated by UKIs decision that it wasnt 
responsible for the damage to his car. I can see that this occurred at a very distressing time 
for him and his family. And I was sorry to hear about their loss and about the effects this 
matter has had on Mr As health. 
Mr A, and UKI, have provided detailed submissions setting out their versions of events and 
rationales. And Ive considered these. Mr A also wanted to submit photographs for me to 
consider. But I cant see that these will add any substantial further evidence for me to 
consider. 
Mr A also set out a number of questions that he and Mrs A wanted answered. But it isnt my 
role to provide detailed technical information. And, whilst Ive read his submissions, I dont 
take instructions from consumers. My role is to consider his complaint against UKI and to 
decide whether it has responded to it fairly and reasonably. And, whilst Mr A has added 
further points, Im satisfied that the core of his complaint is that he thinks UKIs appointed 
engineer damaged his car. 
Our Investigator has already explained that were not engineers. We dont assess whether or 
how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see that UKI provided an exceptionally detailed response to Mr As complaint. It arrived 
at this by consulting its technical engineers for advice on the likely causes of the damage to 
the car Mr A had claimed and the likelihood that this had been caused by its appointed 
engineer when he attached leads to charge the car. 
UKI didnt uphold this part of Mr As complaint as it had evidence that he had been working 
on the car and UKI thought it more likely he may have caused the damage himself. It noted 
that the reason for the callout was an existing electrical fault. It noted that the door had to be 
unlocked manually rather than electronically. And Mr A himself had said the car had faults 
that he was trying to diagnose and fix. 
Mr A thought UKI had admitted liability in its letter to him. But Im satisfied from the section 
where the relevant sentence lies that UKI was setting out Mr As complaint points and it 
didnt accept liability for the damage. 
UKI also considered the evidence that Mr A had provided in his testimony. I note that Mr A 
has many years of experience in working on his cars. But Mr A isnt technically qualified and, 
more importantly, he is not independent. And so I think it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to put 
greater reliance on the expert evidence provided by its engineers. 
Mr A provided a report from his own garage that said the damage had been caused by 
reverse polarity. And I cant see that UKI disputed this. But the garage report doesnt state 
how this had occurred or who was responsible for it. 
When there is a dispute between a consumer and an insurer about repairs, we often think 
its fair and reasonable for one party to provide an independent assessors report to resolve 
the dispute, if possible. But I dont think that was needed in this case as the damage wasnt 
in dispute, just who caused it. And I dont think an independent engineer would be able to 
say who had caused the damage. 
Mr A was unhappy that UKI later asked for CCTV footage taken when the engineer had 
visited him when he had earlier offered this. But I cant see that this footage would have 
shown how the engineer connected the leads. So I dont think it would have helped to 
resolve the dispute. 
So I think UKI took into account Mr As version of events, his garages report, the reports 
from the attending engineers and photographs taken at the time, and the technical view from 
its engineers. I think it reasonably considered this evidence and decided that it couldnt say 
that its appointed engineer had caused the damage to Mr As car. So Im satisfied that it 
justified its decision not to pay for the additional repairs to Mr As car or for his loss of use. 
Mr A was also unhappy with UKIs level of service. As Ive said above, this matter occurred 
at a very difficult time for Mrs A and Mr A. I think UKI tried to accommodate their needs. But I 
think UKIs communication could have been better. And I think it raised their expectations 
about the size of courtesy car and hotel accommodation that would be provided. But Im satisfied that £150 compensation for this level of communication and £300 gesture of 
goodwill towards hotel costs is fair and reasonable. This is because the compensation is in 
keeping with the what Id require in similar situations and with our published guidance. And I 
think the goodwill gesture is out with what is required by the policys terms and conditions. I 
dont require UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman