DRN-3084339
The complaint
Mr W, as a director of N, complains about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline Ns 
business interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
N held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. The policy provided cover for 
a number of areas of risk, including those relating to business interruption. Mr W contacted 
Covea to claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said there was an 
interruption to Ns business from 23 March 2020 due to restriction of access (not an 
outbreak of the disease at our premises) caused by the lockdown announcement.
However, Covea declined the claim. It said that the general cover for business interruption 
provided by Ns policy related to circumstances where damage had led to an interruption. 
And Covea did not consider COVID-19 to be damage as required by the policy. Covea did 
say that there was cover provided by the policy in relation to the impact of diseases, but that 
this required there to have been an outbreak of a relevant disease at the insured premises. 
And Mr W had not suggested there had been such an outbreak and that he had actually said 
the interruption was not because of an outbreak at the premises.
Mr W was unhappy with this and, when Covea did not change its stance, he brought Ns 
complaint to this service. Mr W had argued that the findings of the Supreme Court in The 
Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the 
FCA test case), effectively meant that the underlying cause of an outbreak at the premises 
would be the same underlying cause of the pandemic generally  so the fact that there had 
not been an occurrence at the premises should not mean cover was not provided. 
However, our Investigator was not persuaded that Ns complaint should be upheld. He 
thought Covea had applied the terms of the policy appropriately. Mr W remained unsatisfied 
with this, though he has not provided any further evidence. So, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on N, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover Ns looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy N took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ns policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ns business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ns claim. And I think 
Covea acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ns claim under this area of cover.
Ns policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a relevant disease has led to the premises being closed. And the terms used in the 
extension mean that I think COVID-19 would be a relevant disease. However, this clause 
requires that there be an occurrence of an outbreak of the disease at the premises. It has 
not been suggested that COVID-19 did occur at Ns premises. Mr W has even said that such 
an event was not the cause of Ns business being interrupted. So, I dont think this extension 
provides cover in the circumstances of this claim. 
I do note Mr Ws comments around the judgment in the FCA test case. However, I think the 
findings he is alluding to are those that mean that if there was an outbreak which was partly 
at the premises and partly outside of the premises, the occurrences outside of the premises 
should not mean there would be no cover. That entire outbreak  or each occurrence of the 
disease that formed the outbreak  would be the same underlying cause of the government-
imposed restrictions introduced in March 2020. However, in order for there to be a 
concurrent cause of loss, there would first have to be an occurrence of an outbreak at the 
premises. Without this, the events at Ns premises were not relevant to the Governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions. 
This is confirmed in the Supreme Courts judgment in the test case. For example, when 
considering the scope of particular clauses similar to that in Ns policy but relating to clauses 
that provided cover if there was an occurrence of the disease within a particular radius, the 
court said in paragraph 74:
The clause does not cover interruption caused by cases of illness resulting from 
COVID-19 that occur outside that area.
Ultimately, I consider that the clause in Ns policy would only provide cover if there was an 
interruption of Ns business as a consequence of cases of a relevant disease at its premises. 
As it has not been shown that there was an occurrence of an outbreak of COVID-19, or any 
other disease that led to Ns interruption, at Ns premises I am satisfied Coveas decision to 
decline the claim under this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Ns claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr W, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman