DRN-2652771
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PSA, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. This was a 
brand-new car so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults and I 
think theyd expect to experience very few, if any, faults in the early years.
Mr K has explained that hes taken the car to the dealership for repairs on about 15 
occasions. Not all of those visits have been recorded by the dealership and the records that 
have been kept are not comprehensive. Ive tried to piece together what has happened from 
the job cards and correspondence Ive been given. I have seen evidence of the following 
issues with the car:
Approximate Date Issue Action Mileage
5/7/19 Battery and 
accelerator issues 
reportedNone
23/7/19 Battery fault New battery fitted
1/10/19 Camera fault, 
accelerator issueCamera replaced 13,503
19/11/19 Mr K says he has 
collected his car, but 
no work has been 
completed
8/1/20 Clutch problem New cylinder fitted as 
old one was leaking15,500
13/1/20 Accelerator problem Pedal replaced and 
reprogrammed15,901
3/6/20 Pollen filter replaced 
and dealer suggests 
black box may be the 
problem
15/6/20 Roadside assistance Electrical problem 18,626
24/6/20 Investigate steering 
rattle, tracking issue 
and overheating
21/8/20 Service 19,214
1/10/20 Roadside assistance 
note fault codes for 
overheatingMr K complains that 
no work was 
completed despite car 
being left at 
dealership
I dont think a reasonable person would expect so many issues with a brand-new car within 
the first couple of years or within the first 18,000 miles of use. I think there is strong evidence 
the car has had a problem with the clutch; the accelerator; the camera system; and an 
overheating problem. There are other problems for which evidence is a little weaker but 
overall, I think its clear the car hasnt been suitably durable and has therefore not been of 
satisfactory quality.
PSA say that health checks havent highlighted problems, but Ive listed, above, the faults 
that have been identified on this car and Im persuaded that these demonstrate it hasnt 
been of satisfactory quality.
PSA should therefore allow Mr K to reject it. 
Putting things right
PSA should end the finance agreement, collect the car and refund any deposit paid adding 
interest to that refund as Mr K has been deprived of that money.
I think its clear Mr K has been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to escalate his 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier by PSA and hes 
had to return his car to the dealership on several occasions. In the circumstances, I think 
PSA should pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. It appears Mr K has already received a payment from Peugeot Care for 
£379.23 in respect of problems highlighted in the businesss final response.Mr K has explained that hes had several issues with the dealership. He says they didnt 
carry out repairs or test drives when they said they would. Whilst relevant legislation holds 
PSA responsible for the negotiations the dealership have as their agents when setting up the 
finance agreement, I dont think it would be fair to hold PSA responsible for the level of 
service offered by the dealership. Mr K should take this up with the dealership directly if he 
feels he still has a complaint about their service.
Ive thought about whether to ask the business to refund any finance instalments Mr K has 
paid in respect of the loss of use hes had from his car. But I dont think that would be 
reasonable as Mr K has travelled far in excess of the 6,000 miles per year he was contracted 
to cover under his finance agreement.
Hes had reasonable use of the car but its clear his enjoyment of his new vehicle would 
have been spoilt as he has experienced regular problems with it. So, Ive considered 
whether to tell PSA to make a payment to Mr K in respect of his loss of enjoyment. Im not 
asking them to do so because I think the investigators suggested redress adequately 
compensates Mr K. Thats because she has told the business to end the finance agreement 
with nothing more to pay. Mr Ks contract says he needs to pay excess mileage charges of 
6p for every mile in excess of 6,000 per year. Hes covered substantially more than that and 
will therefore benefit from me asking the business not to ask him to pay any excess mileage 
charges. I think thats sufficient to compensate him for any lack of enjoyment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to:
allow Mr K to reject the car and end his finance agreement with nothing further to pay 
and no excess mileage costs;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman