DRN-3294658
The complaint
Mrs C, through her representative, complains that Skyline Direct failed to verify her income 
and expenditure which may have resulted in erroneous information being used to determine 
affordability. Mrs C says that it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
affordability prior to providing the finance.
What happened
Using information Skyline Direct has provided, here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Date Principal Interest Term 
(weeks)Weekly 
RepaymentSettled
1. 04.03.15 £400 £200 30 £20 23.09.15
2.
refinanced30.09.15 £400 £200 30 £20 20.04.16
3.
refinanced20.04.16 £500 £250 30 £25 05.10.16
4.
refinanced05.10.16 £700 £350 30 £35 08.03.17
5.
refinanced08.03.17 £700 £350 30 £35 02.08.17
6. 02.08.17 £800 £400 30 £40 18.10.17
7. 15.11.17 £500 £250 30 £25 25.07.18
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that the pattern of lending by 
loan 4 was such that Skyline Direct ought to have ceased lending at that point.
Skyline Direct disagreed. It gave several submissions as to why all of which I have reviewed. 
Neither Mrs C nor her representative responded to our adjudicators view. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on 
21 January 2022. That provisional decision is duplicated in this section of this decision and 
in smaller type to differentiate it from my final determination. 
My provisional decision dated 21 January 2021
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-
term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Skyline Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Skyline Direct should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to 
a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of 
the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Skyline Direct was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans sustainably, 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without 
undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C has not told us that she disagrees with the adjudicators view and so I take that to mean she 
has no issue with the outcome for loans 1 to 3. And therefore I have considered them as they are 
relevant to the lending relationship as a whole, but I have not reviewed them in detail.
I do not agree with the adjudicators approach for loans 4 to 7 and I have come to some different 
conclusions which I explain here.
Mrs C has sent us no information at all about her income and outgoings  although she has sent to us 
a copy of her personal credit file. In the absence of that information about Mrs Cs income and 
expenditure from her I have had to review the information Skyline Direct has sent to us. And Im doing 
that because its the best evidence I have available on that aspect. These were figures recorded 
contemporaneously to the applications for loans 1 to 4 and so without additional evidence from Mrs C 
they seem the best figures to rely on for the purposes of this complaint.
Those figures are the ones Mrs C must have given to Skyline Direct during the application processes. 
They do indicate that Mrs C appeared to have sufficient spare (disposable) income to repay 
loans 1 to 4. And so, whereas the adjudicator thought that by loan 4 the repetitive nature of the 
lending was such that it was unsustainable, and may have been harmful to Mrs C, I am not satisfied 
I have the evidence to show that. So, I am planning not to uphold loans 1 to 4.
But by loan 5, I think that Mrs C had been returning too many times for additional credit from Skyline 
Direct for it to continue to rely on the information Mrs C had told them. In my view it needed to carry 
out a full financial review of her circumstances. She had been in debt with them permanently for two 
years and was returning for higher and higher loans.
I think that if Skyline Direct had carried out a full financial review of her circumstances at loan 5 then 
I doubt that it would have continued to lend to her. I say this because using the information Mrs C 
gave Skyline Direct at the time, together with the personal credit file I have reviewed, then I can see 
that Mrs C had a great deal of outstanding debt at the time she was asking Skyline Direct for loans 5 to 7. And I think that its highly likely further and more in depth enquiries would have revealed 
this to Skyline Direct.
I do not plan to list all the other credit commitments and history I have gathered from credit file, but 
I list here a few to give a flavour of what Mrs Cs income had to cover:
A default for £928 from December 2014 and was outstanding until 2019
Mrs C had between 4 and 7 hire purchase agreements between December 2014 and 
December 2017, all of which required payments each week or month
Around October 2016 Mrs C had at least two high cost short term loans to repay and had 
opened a credit account with a lender which provides a type of overdraft facility
By October 2017 Mrs C had obtained a £3,000 loan with a company which offered high cost 
loans
There are more details in the credit file report which lead me to see that Mrs C had a lot of debt to 
deal with and had done for some time. The overall picture received from reviewing the credit file was 
that Mrs C was persistently in debt and it appears to me that her income was not likely able to cover 
all of these credit commitments, some of which were for other types of high cost credit, as well as her 
usual expenditure.
I am satisfied that had Skyline Direct carried out a full financial review of Mrs Cs circumstances  
before lending loan 5, then I think it would have seen she was in trouble and not lent again.
Gap in lending  what that means
I have read that Skyline Direct think that the 4 week gap between Mrs C paying off loan 6 and her 
returning for loan 7 was significant. After such a long lending relationship up to that point (around two 
and a half years) I do not think that a four week gap was significant enough to lead me to make a 
different provisional decision in relation to loan 7. I doubt that after four weeks Mrs Cs situation would 
have changed so much that Skyline Direct could treat this four week gap as a break in the lending 
chain. I do not.
So, for reasons which differ to that of our adjudicator  I think that Skyline Direct failed to carry out 
proportionate checks from loan 5 onwards, and my provisional decision is that I am planning to uphold 
loans 5 to 7.
Other points raised not covered already
Skyline Direct has said several points, most of which I consider that my provisional decision covers. A 
couple more are dealt with in this paragraph.
Skyline Direct has said:
Loan 4 was issued 2 months after the firm received confirmation of FCA approval following 
our application which included our lending policy and process at that time. The FCA had no 
concerns regarding our approach to loan applications for new and existing customers, 
Skyline Directs FCA regulatory approval does not necessarily mean that all loans issued after the 
FCA approval are satisfactorily done. Mrs C has raised a specific complaint with circumstances 
relating to her own situation. I have reviewed it and issued my provisional decision on it. Satisfactory 
regulatory approval is a requirement to lend, not an automatic defence to a complaint raised. All 
complaints are approached by this Service individually.
And Skyline Direct has said that Mrs C returned to take more loans seasonally. This has little bearing 
on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyline Direct has responded to say that it does not entirely agree but for Mrs C it will accept 
the provisional findings. 
Mrs C has not responded to the provisional decision. The replay date of 4 February 2022 
has passed and so with nothing further to review or look at then I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and they are repeated here and form part of this final 
determination.
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in relation to loans 5 to 7. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline Direct should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs C from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs C in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skyline Directs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
I direct that Skyline Direct does as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans 5 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 5 to 7 from Mrs Cs credit file;
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline Direct to take off tax from this interest. It must
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part and direct that Skyline Direct 
Limited does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman