DRN-3997726
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr W have complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) continued to charge them for a 
fee-paying Platinum account after theyd submitted a complaint in 2015 in which TSB said 
that the account had been mis-sold. 
Mrs M and Mr W would like a refund of the monthly account fees they have been paying 
since 2015.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs M and Mr W disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
To explain, for me to be able to find in Mrs M and Mr Ws favour on this complaint, I would 
need to see that TSB has done something wrong or has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
However, I cant see that it has.
I can see that in 2015, Mrs M and Mr W submitted a mis-selling complaint about their 
Platinum account. Mrs M and Mr W say that when TSB did not find in their favour, they did 
not have the capacity to pursue the matter further. However, TSB did not reject their 
complaint. On the contrary, TSB issued its final response letter to the complaint on 18 March 
2015 and explained that it had found in their favour and agreed to refund the account fees 
Mrs M and Mr W had paid on the account since it was sold to them, plus 8% simple interest 
on those fees, less tax. 
In that letter, TSB also agreed to pay Mrs M and Mr W an extra £17  this was to cover the 
next months account fee. It was explained that this was to give Mrs M and Mr W some time 
to decide which account they wanted to change to. The letter went on to confirm that the 
account was still a Platinum account and that if Mrs M and Mr W wanted to change the 
account, they could do so either in branch or over the phone (and provided the number to 
call). The letter also explained that a list of all of the available accounts could be found on 
TSBs website.
Mrs M and Mr W say that they werent made that they could opt out of the packaged 
account. However, given the above, Im satisfied that TSB did make it quite clear that Mrs M 
and Mr Ws account was still a fee-paying Platinum account and explained how they could 
go about downgrading it to a fee-free account. And TSB had even given them an extra 
month of refund to allow them time to decide their options.
So in the circumstances, I cant see that TSB treated Mrs M and Mr W unfairly or 
unreasonably. Mrs M and Mr W have said that they were going through a difficult time 
around 2015, as Mrs M says that she had recently lost her father; was looking after her 
mother and her three children; and had a job and a business to run. Im sorry to hear about 
Mrs Ms circumstances and I have no doubt that arranging to change the type of account she 
held was probably low down on her list of priorities at the time. But equally, I cant 
reasonably hold TSB responsible because, as it would appear, Mrs M and Mr W did not 
manage to change their account due to them being busy with other priorities.
Im also mindful that TSB has not exactly hid the fact that their account remained a Platinum 
account in all the intervening years. For example, the account wouldve still been labelled as 
a Platinum account; the Platinum account fee (which theyd already complained about being 
charged) was still being deducted every month since their complaint; and TSB has provided 
evidence to show that annual eligibility reminders were being issued every year since 2015 
and also has provided evidence to indicate that other correspondence (such as when 
changes were made to the Platinum account) were sent to Mrs M and Mr W too.
Therefore, taking everything into account, Im unable to say that TSB has acted unfairly or 
incorrectly in this matter. It therefore follows that I cant reasonably instruct TSB to refund the 
Platinum account fees that Mrs M and Mr W have paid since 2015.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman